WELLS, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 23-05, passed 10-10-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1, SECOND SERIES
CITY OF WELLS
   COUNTY OF FARIBAULT
   STATE OF MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WELLS, MINNESOTA
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, M.S. §§415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause its ordinances
to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Wells, Minnesota ordains:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances for the City of Wells." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
         Title I: General Provisions
         Title III: Administration
         Title V: Public Works
         Title VII: Traffic Code
         Title IX: General Regulations
         Title XI: Business Regulations
         Title XIII: General Offenses
         Title XV: Land Usage
         Table of Special Ordinances
         Parallel References
Section 3.   All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4.   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included hi it and not previously
published in the City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the
office of the City Clerk.
Section 5.   The Code of Ordinance is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6.   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinance, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
   The motion for the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly seconded by
Council Member Gaines and upon vote being taken thereon, the following voted in
favor:
   Carroll, Burns, Linde, Gaines
and the following voted against the same:
   None
   Whereupon said ordinance was declared duly passed and adopted by the City
Council of the City of Wells on September 12, 2005.
Dave Jacobson /s/
Dave Jacobson, Mayor
ATTEST:
Ronda C. Allis /s/
Ronda C. Allis, City Administrator
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-01 (273)
CITY OF WELLS, MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WELLS,
MINNESOTA, THAT:
SECTION I.   The City Council of the City of Wells has reviewed its existing
City Code and is desirous of re-codifying the City Code of Ordinances to
include all ordinances passed since the 2011 Supplement through July 10, 2016
and to delete and update such provisions as needed.
SECTION II.   Pursuant to Minnesota Statute Section 415.021, the City Council
of the City of Wells has caused the revised code to be printed and directs the
publication of notice of the adoption of the re-codification and directs that a
substantial quantity of the codification be printed and a statement be
published for at least two successive weeks in the official newspaper and that
copies of the codification are available at the office of City Administrator/
Clerk.
The motion for the adoption of the foregoing ordinance made by Council Member
Herman and was duly seconded by Council Member Harig and upon vote being taken
thereon, the following voted in favor: Dulas, Harig, Herman & Weber and the
following voted against the same: none
Whereupon said ordinance was declared duly READ, CONSIDERED, PASSED, APPROVED
and ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council of Wells, Minnesota, at
which a quorum was present and which was held on the 13th day of March, 2017.
                                    CITY OF WELLS
                                    BY: Dave Jacobson /s/
                                         Dave Jacobson, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
Robin Leslie /s/
Robin Leslie, City Administrator                              SEAL
 
Published on March 23, 2017 and March 30, 2017
Effective Date March 13, 2017
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
Wells City Code, for which designation Code of Ordinances, Codified Ordinances,
or Code may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the Traffic Code. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Faribault County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be
excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and
imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In particular, any agreement
granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or
franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway,
and the election of corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as
if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The penalty which may be imposed for any crime which is a
misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted
by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not
more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   City elections
   
30.02   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.03   City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.04   Fire Chief
   
30.05   Compensation of Mayor and Council Members
   
30.06   City Council meetings
   
30.07   Presiding officer
   
30.08   Minutes
   
30.09   Order of business
   
30.10   Voting
   
30.11   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.12   Quorum for conducting business
   
30.13   Fees and charges
   
30.14   Application of state laws
   
30.15   Background information
§ 30.01 CITY ELECTIONS.
   The regular city election shall be held biennially, on even years, on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November, beginning with the 1974
election.
(Ord. 182, passed 8-15-1974)
§ 30.02 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer and filed by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every
ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (B)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
§ 30.03 CITY ADMINISTRATOR-CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. Ch. 412, as it may be
amended from time to time, the offices of clerk and treasurer in the City of
Wells, Faribault County, Minnesota, are hereby combined in the office of City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Beginning with the year in which this section becomes effective and
each year thereafter, there shall be an audit of the city's financial affairs
by the Public Examiner or a public accountant in accordance with minimum
auditing procedures prescribed by the Public Examiner.
   (C)   This section is effective at the expiration of the term of the
incumbent Treasurer or when an earlier vacancy occurs.
(Ord. 170, passed 3-24-1970)
§ 30.04 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   There shall be annually appointed in the month of January in each year
by the City Council of the City of Wells, 1 person as Fire Chief who shall
receive the compensation as shall be fixed by the Council. The Fire Chief is to
hold office for the term of 1 year and until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, make oath for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office and shall make and file a bond with sufficient sureties to be approved
by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Wells in the sum of
$500 conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office.
   (C)   The Fire Chief of the city is hereby authorized to enter into any
house, building, lot, or other premises in the city, between sunrise and
sunset, for the purpose of examining the construction and condition of
chimneys, fireplaces, hearths, stoves, stovepipes, ovens, boilers, and other
apparatus, used in and about the house, building, lot, or other premises likely
to cause fire; also to examine places where ashes may be deposited and all
places where gun powder or other explosives, hemp, hay, straw, shavings, oils,
or other combustible or inflammable material may be lodged, and give the orders
as to the removal, abatement, alteration, better care, and management thereof
as may be deemed advisable. And it is hereby made the duty of the owner or
person in charge of the things herein enumerated to comply with the orders so
given by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-2-1937)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 30.05 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council Member
shall be established from time to time by City Council ordinance pursuant to
M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 30.06 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
at least once each month, at a date, time and place as established by the City
Council. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including
special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the city hall unless the City
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the city hall is
impossible.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any 2 members of the City Council may
call a special meeting of the City Council upon at least 24-hours’ written
notice to each member of the City Council. This notice shall be delivered
personally to each member or shall be left at the member's usual place of
residence with some responsible person. Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 13D, as it may be
amended from time to time, written notice of any special meeting shall be
posted giving the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting at least 3 days
before the meeting. Written notice shall be mailed at least 3 days before the
meeting to anyone who has filed a written request for notice of special
meetings. In calculating the 3 days, if the last day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the next regular business day shall be counted as the
third day.
   (C)   Emergency meetings. Notice of emergency meetings shall be given as
required by M.S. Ch. 16D, as it may be amended from time to time. An emergency
meeting is a meeting defined by M.S. Ch. 16D, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (D)   Initial meeting. At the first regular City Council meeting in January
of each year, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose 1 of the Council Members as Acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of departments, boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary;
      (5)   Establish and appoint Council Members to those City Council
committees as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management
of the city.
   (E)   Public meetings. All City Council meetings, including special,
emergency and adjourned meetings and meetings of City Council committees, as
well as meetings of City Commissions and Boards, shall be conducted in
accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 16D, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 30.07 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall call the meeting
to order and shall preside until the Council Members present at the meeting
choose 1 of their number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce any
rules of procedure adopted by the City Council, and determine without debate,
subject to the final decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of
procedure and order.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the City Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council Member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
§ 30.08 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally. Minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or, in the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer’s absence, by the Deputy City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. In the
absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem.
Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes
if they appear in other permanent records of the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer and can be accurately identified from the description given in the
minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, and copies
thereof shall be delivered to each Council Member as soon as practicable after
the meeting. At the next regular City Council meeting following the delivery,
approval of the minutes shall be considered by the City Council. The minutes
need not be read aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions
or corrections. If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction,
it may be made without a vote of the City Council. If there is an objection,
the City Council shall vote upon the addition or correction. If there are no
additions or corrections, the minutes shall stand approved.
§ 30.09 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed therefor. City Council business shall be conducted
in the following order unless varied by the presiding officer or by-laws or
other procedures adopted by Council resolution:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Roll call.
      (3)   Approval of minutes.
      (4)   Consent agenda.
      (5)   Public hearings.
      (6)   Petitions, requests, and communications.
      (7)   Ordinances and resolutions.
      (8)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees.
      (9)   Unfinished business.
      (10)   New business.
      (11)   Miscellaneous.
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Petitions and agenda. Petitions and other papers addressed to the City
Council shall be read or copies distributed by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer upon presentation of the same to the City Council. All persons
desiring to present new business before the City Council shall inform the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer thereof at least 72 hours before new business is
to be heard. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer may prepare an agenda of
the new business for submission to the City Council on or before the time of
the next regular meeting.
§ 30.10 VOTING.
   The votes of the Council Members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
Council Members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each Council Member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except
for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any Council
Member is present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall
be marked Present-Not Voting.
§ 30.11 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a 2/3-vote of the members present and
voting.
§ 30.12 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire City Council,
including the Mayor. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the City Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the City Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the City Council by
a majority vote of those present.
§ 30.13 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council may enact an ordinance establishing those fees and charges
that are authorized by this code. Until that ordinance becomes effective, all
fees and charges established by ordinance or resolution prior to the adoption
of this code shall remain in effect. All fees and charges established by the
ordinance establishing fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
amendment of that ordinance.
§ 30.14 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, the
Opening Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time,
apply to the City Council and all boards and commissions of this city and their
members.
§ 30.15 BACKGROUND INFORMATION.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this section is to establish regulations
that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s computerized criminal
history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in this section.
   (B)   Upon request of the City Administrator or designee, the Police
Department, Sheriff’s Department, or the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is
authorized to provide certain criminal history data contained in the Minnesota
Criminal Justice Information System. The data to be provided must only be about
finalists for City positions of employment, or city volunteers that will have
contact with children. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or designee must
obtain the consent of the finalists, in writing, before requesting the data,
but an applicant’s failure to provide consent may disqualify the applicant from
the prospective position. The written consent must fully comply with the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the
information. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city will
not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following: the
grounds and reasons for the denial; the applicant complaint and grievance
procedure set forth in M.S. § 364.06; the earliest date the applicant may
reapply for employment; that all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be
considered upon reapplication. The Wells Police Department is hereby required,
as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following positions within the city,
unless the city’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is
not needed: City Administrator, Police Chief, Community Development Director,
Liquor Store Manager, Street Supervisor, Police Officer, Street Laborer, Deputy
Clerk, Accounting Clerk, Bartender, Library Director and Librarian.
(Am. Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 5-14-2007; Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Park Board
   
31.01   Creation; members
   
31.02   Oath of office; President and Vice President
   
31.03   Secretary
   
31.04   Appropriations
   
31.05   Contracts; quorum; rule adoption
   
31.06   Compensation
   
31.07   Providing entertainments
   
31.08   Setting apart streets
   
31.09   Park funds and lands
   
31.10   Park rules adoption and publication
   
31.11   Park police
   
31.12   City Council jurisdiction in parks
   
31.13   Violation of park rules
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
31.25   Establishment
   
31.26   Composition
   
31.27   Organization; meetings
   
31.28   Powers and duties
   
31.29   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
   
31.30   Plats; approval
Wells Municipal Airport Commission
   
31.45   Establishment; term; removal
   
31.46   Meetings and reports
   
31.47   Duties
   
31.48   Offenses
   
31.49   Administrative control
Cross-reference:
   
Establishment of emergency management organization, see § 32.03
PARK BOARD
§ 31.01 CREATION; MEMBERS.
   (A)   There shall be a Park Board to consist of 3 members appointed by the
City Council of the City of Wells, as hereinafter provided, all of whom shall
continue in office until the expiration of their several terms and until their
successors are appointed and qualified, as herein provided.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Board shall be residents and freeholders of
the city, and shall be appointed by the City Council of the City of Wells and,
except as otherwise provided in this section, shall hold their offices for the
term of 3 years.
      (2)   It is hereby made the duty of the City Council of the City of Wells
to appoint 3 persons to be members of the Board, 1 for 3 years, 1 for 2 years,
and 1 for 1 year, and thereafter, upon the expiration of the terms of office of
the members of the Board so appointed, the City Council shall appoint a
successor to each of the members, who shall hold his or her office for the term
of 3 years. Vacancies in the Board shall be filled by the City Council for the
unexpired term or terms, but the resignation of a member shall not take effect
until his or her successor shall have been appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   Each person appointed a member of the Board shall, before entering
upon his or her duties, file a written acceptance and oath of office in the
office of the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Board shall, at its first regular meeting in April of each year,
elect a President, a Vice President, and a Secretary. It shall also, from time
to time, appoint and employ the agents and employees as it shall deem
necessary, whose compensation shall be fixed by the Board and to be paid out of
the Park Fund.
(Am. Ord. 123, passed 5-7-1940)
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.03 SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Secretary shall submit to the Board, in the month of February in
each year, a report of the transactions of the Board at its meetings during the
last fiscal year, ending February 26, including a detailed statement of the
receipts and expenditures of the Board during the period, which statement shall
have first been submitted to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, and
approved by him or her as correct. In the same month, the Board stall submit to
the City Council a report of the work done under its supervision during the
last fiscal year, together with a classified and tabulated statement of
expenditures on any and all the parks and parkways for maintenance and
improvement, respectively, stating under each head, the several amounts
expended for labor, material, and administration; and also a statement of the
receipts of the department from every source.
(Am. Ord. 123, passed 5-7-1940)
   (B)   The last named report shall be deemed the annual report of the Board
and shall be published.
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.04 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The City Council, in its discretion, may make appropriations for use of the
Park Board from time to time as deemed advisable by them; provided, however,
that no more than the sum of $1,000 be so appropriated in any 1 year.
(Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 123, passed 5-7-1940)
§ 31.05 CONTRACTS; QUORUM; RULE ADOPTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board shall have a common seal, and shall be capable of
entering into, performing, and enforcing, on behalf of the city, contracts
relating to matters within the jurisdiction of the Board.
      (2)   All contracts must be signed by the President or Vice President of
the Board and Secretary of the Board, and affixed thereto its official seal.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum but a
less number thereof may adjourn a meeting from time to time.
   (C)   The Board may adopt rules governing its meetings and proceedings, and
the duties of its officers and employees.
   (D)   No commissioners or officer or other employee of the Board shall be
interested in any contract made under the authority of the Board.
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION.
   The Board members shall receive compensation for their services on a yearly
basis to be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 123, passed 5-7-1940)
§ 31.07 PROVIDING ENTERTAINMENTS.
   (A)   The Board shall have the management and control of all lands which
have been or may be acquired for parks or parkways in the city, and shall
direct all expenditures from the Park Fund for the maintenance and improvement
of the parks and parkways.
   (B)   (1)   The Park Board may, either in its own right or by authority by
it granted to other persons or organizations, in case of entertainments to be
had in the park, charge gate receipts therefor, either at the gate of the park
or at the entrance of the entertainment, as may be authorized by the Park
Board, had within the park.
      (2)   The Park Board may formulate rules and regulations for the conduct
of persons using the park for specified purposes and may either, in its own
right formulate a set of rules and regulations covering specific activities had
within the park, or may delegate to a committee in charge of specific
activities the right to formulate a set of rules covering a particular
activity, and when the power is delegated, the rules of the organization shall
have the same force and effect as if formulated by the Park Board; the rules,
however, to be enacted with the same formality as those required where the
power herein granted is exercised directly by the Park Board, and in connection
with the use of the golf course of the park, either as now established or as
hereafter may be enlarged or improved, the Park Board, may, either directly or
through a delegated power herein authorized, charge or permit the delegation to
charge a membership fee and/or a greens fee for the use of the park for the
purpose of playing golf and may formulate reasonable rules and regulations in
prohibiting persons not engaged in playing golf from carrying on activities
hindering or impeding the free activities of those rightfully using the golf
course, and further prohibit the fairways of the golf course and/or the so-
called greens, whether of grass turf or other improved greens, from being used
in any manner that would tend to make them less adaptable for the purpose for
which they were created. All rules formulated by delegated power are subject to
the approval of the Park Board.
(Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 124, passed 5-7-1940)
§ 31.08 SETTING APART STREETS.
   The City Council shall have the power to set apart any street or avenue, or
any section thereof, as parkway and to place the same under the supervision of
the Park Board for the specific and limited purposes of improvement or
ornamentation as may be named in the resolution or ordinance of the City
Council.
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.09 PARK FUNDS AND LANDS.
   (A)   All moneys whatsoever which may be derived from lease of privileges,
donations of money, fines, or from any other source whatsoever connected with
the use, abuse, benefit, or enjoyment of any park or parkway shall be placed in
the city treasury to the credit of the Park Fund.
   (B)   All expenditures of the Park Board, payment of which is not herein
otherwise provided for, shall be paid from the Park Fund not otherwise
appropriated, and all moneys received by the Board from any source shall, where
not herein otherwise directed, to be paid into the city treasury to the credit
of the Fund.
   (C)   All expenditures shall be audited by the Park Board, and shall be paid
by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer only upon warrants of the Board
signed by its President, or Vice President, and Secretary.
   (D)   Lands which may have been heretofore or may be hereafter acquired for
park purposes shall not be alienated nor diverted to other uses, and shall
remain forever parks and parkways for the use of all the inhabitants of the
city.
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.10 PARK RULES ADOPTION AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The Park Board of the city shall adopt rules and regulations to secure
the quiet, orderly, and suitable use and enjoyment of the park, parks, and
parkways of the City of Wells, which the rules and regulations shall be
published once in a local newspaper of the city and 3 copies of the rules and
regulations shall be posted in conspicuous places within the park.
   (B)   Changes of the rules may be made from time to time by the Park Board
publishing the change in a local newspaper of the city, and posting the same in
3 conspicuous places in the same manner as provided by the adoption of the
original rules and regulations.
(Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 124, passed 5-7-1940)
§ 31.11 PARK POLICE.
   The Park Board shall deputize all employees regularly working for and under
the supervision of the Park Board being paid out of the Park Fund as police
officers with the powers in this section conferred to enforce the rules and
regulations as the Park Board may enact under the authority of this section
conferred.
(Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 124, passed 5-7-1940)
§ 31.12 CITY COUNCIL JURISDICTION IN PARKS.
   The City Council shall have the same power and jurisdiction in respect to
laying water mains and sewers and lighting along the parkways in the city as it
now has in respect to laying the same along the public streets.
(Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 31.13 VIOLATION OF PARK RULES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the rules and
regulations as to the use of the park, parks, or parkways of the City of Wells,
posted by the Park Board in or upon the park, parks, or parkways as
hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 18 years, violating the rules and
regulations of the Park Board, may, at the discretion of the Board, be expelled
from coming into or in any manner using the park, parks, or parkways for a
period of not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days for each conviction.
Complaint of violation under this section shall be made in writing by any
employee of the Park Board and filed with the Secretary of the Board, and any
person coming under this section so accused of a violation may state any
defense he or she may have thereto and shall have the right to call witnesses
before the Board to give evidence in his or her behalf. The trial of the
accused may be had by not less than 2 members of the Board and the findings of
the Board as to expulsion from the park shall be final.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-7-1940)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 31.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Planning and Zoning Commission for the City of Wells is hereby
established. The Commission shall be the city planning agency.
(Ord. 169, passed - -)
§ 31.26 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of 5 members. Five
members shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by 4/5-vote
of the Council. The City Street Foreperson and the City Attorney shall be
members ex officio. The Council shall select 1 member of the Commission from
among its own members.
   (B)   Of the members of the Commission first appointed, 1 shall be appointed
for 1 year, 2 for 2 years, and 2 for 3 years, and their successors shall be
appointed for 3-year terms. Both original and successive appointees shall hold
their offices until their successors are appointed and qualified. The term of
ex officio shall correspond to their respective official tenures. Terms of
officials shall end January 1 of the year. Vacancies during the term shall be
filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every appointed
member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, take an
oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
All members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 169, passed - -)
§ 31.27 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of 1 year. The Commission may create and fill the other
offices as it may determine.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall hold at least 1 regular meeting each month.
      (2)   It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep
a record of its resolutions, transactions, and findings, which record shall be
a public record.
      (3)   On or before January 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to
the City Council a report of its work during the preceding year.
      (4)   Expenditures of the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated
for the purpose by the City Council.
(Ord. 169, passed - -)
§ 31.28 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be the planning agency and
shall have the powers and duties given the agencies generally by M.S. Ch. 462,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   It shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by §§ 31.25 et
seq.
(Ord. 169, passed - -)
§ 31.29 ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   No zoning ordinance or amendment thereto shall be adopted by the Council
until a public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning and Zoning
Commission upon notice as provided in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 169, passed - -)
§ 31.30 PLATS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any plat of land submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to
final approval, be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review
and recommendation.
   (B)   Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission within 30 days, and failure of the Commission to report within the
period is deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 169, passed - -)
WELLS MUNICIPAL AIRPORT COMMISSION
§ 31.45 ESTABLISHMENT; TERM; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Airport Commission established. There is hereby established an Airport
Commission to be known as the Wells Municipal Airport Commission, which shall
be composed of 3 members, 2 of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council from among the citizens of Wells and 1 of whom shall be
appointed by the Mayor from among the members of the City Council to serve as
an ex officio member of the Commission. All members shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   Term. The 2 Commission members shall be appointed for terms of 2 and 3
years respectively; and thereafter, Commission members shall be appointed for a
term of 2 years. Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor with the approval of
the Council for the unexpired term.
   (C)   Removal. Whenever 2/3 of the City Council deem it for the best
interest of the airport and its affairs, it may remove any member of the
Commission.
(Ord. 165, passed 4-4-1967)
§ 31.46 MEETINGS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Commission shall make and alter the rules and regulations for its
government and the conduct of its business as is consistent with the laws
relating to cities and the ordinances of the City of Wells.
   (B)   It shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or a majority of its
members, and shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings which shall
be furnished to the City Council as soon after each meeting as is practicable.
(Ord. 165, passed 4-4-1967)
§ 31.47 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall plan, promote, and encourage the development and
utilization of the Municipal Airport. It shall determine the general policies
and provide for detailed administration, maintenance, operation, management,
and control of the airport and appurtenances thereto. It shall advise the
Council on matters having to do with acquisition of additional premises, any
and all construction and improvements thereon, and submit its proposed budget
annually before the budget meeting of the City Council. It shall also have the
further duty of consulting and cooperating, with federal, state, and other
agencies dealing with aeronautics. It shall be the duty of the Commission to
see that all fees and charges due and owing the City of Wells are properly
collected.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the other powers, authority, duties, or
responsibilities as the City Council may from time to time prescribe by
resolution.
(Ord. 165, passed 4-4-1967)
§ 31.48 OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To operate a motor vehicle, except for airport maintenance purposes,
upon the runways, taxiways, or aircraft parking areas, except on those sections
of the airport specifically designated for motor vehicles;
   (B)   To operate an aircraft either on or over the land or water without the
consent of the owner of the aircraft;
   (C)   To operate or attempt to operate any aircraft while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or of any narcotic or other habit-forming
drug;
   (D)   To knowingly permit any individual who may be under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or of any narcotic or other habit-forming drug to operate
any aircraft owned by the person or in his or her custody or control;
   (E)   To tamper with, climb upon or into, make use of, or navigate any
aircraft without the knowledge or consent of the owner or person having the
control thereof, whether while the same is in motion or at rest; or to hurl
stones or any other missiles, or discharge any gun or weapon, at aircraft or
the occupants thereof, or otherwise damage or interfere with the same or place
upon any portion of any aircraft any object obstruction, or other device
tending to injure aircraft or the parts thereof;
   (F)   To operate any aircraft carelessly or heedlessly in disregard for the
rights or safety of others or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property;
   (G)   To engage in trick or acrobatic flying or in any acrobatic feat while
flying over a thickly inhabited area or over a public gathering; and/or
   (H)   To fly at low levels as to endanger persons on the surface beneath,
except while in landing or takeoff.
(Ord. 165, passed 4-4-1967)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 31.49 ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL.
   Nothing in §§ 31.45 et seq. shall be construed as taking away from the City
Council any of its governmental powers which it does have authority to delegate
to other agencies.
(Ord. 165, passed 4-4-1967)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   
Fire Prevention and Protection, see Ch. 94
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an indefinite term
and may be removed by him or her at any time. The Director shall serve with a
salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   (1)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments
and agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state.
      (2)   To the extent that emergency personnel are recruited to augment a
regular city department or agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to
the departments or agencies and shall be under the administration and control
of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of 3 days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance,
and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health, fire, and
safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for preliminary
training, and all other matters which are required to protect public safety,
health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer. A copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection
during business hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their
availability for inspection at the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer's office
shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the City Hall or other
headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area as the Council
shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council may modify or
rescind a regulation.
   (C)   (1)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any
time. If not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30
days after its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an emergency
regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the period of
time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   (1)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions
of M.S. § 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster.
      (2)   The city may exercise these powers in the light of the exigencies
of the disaster without compliance with the time-consuming procedures and
formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and materials,
limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and expenditure of public
funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions, publication
of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules, provisions relating
to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   (A)   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are
hereby declared to be governmental functions.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not affect the right of any
person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled under
this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or under any pension
law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or compensation under
any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
   
33.01   Rural service district
§ 33.01 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   An urban service district and rural service district shall exist in
the city for the purpose of levying municipal property taxes except those
levied for the payment of bonds and judgments and interests thereon.
   (B)   The rural service district shall be comprised of the following parcels
of land within the city:
      R30.004.0030   R30.008.1030   R30.009.0500   R30.240.0060
      R30.005.0040   R30.008.1150   R30.009.0530
      R30.005.0060   R30.008.1190   R30.009.0550
      R30.005.0070   R30.008.1220   R30.017.0010
   (C)   The urban service district shall be comprised of all land zoned
industrial or commercial or platted lands and all land within the city limits
that is served either by city water or city sewer in which further does not
meet the definition of the rural service district.
   (D)   That the benefit ratio required by M.S. § 272.67, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time, shall be established so that all lands in the
rural service district shall be taxed for the general tax levy at 75% of the
rate levied in the urban service district. Pursuant to the is classification
the taxes for municipal purposes, exclusive of bonded indebtedness shall not
exceed 75% of full municipal tax levied in the remainder of the city. The
benefit ratio shall not apply on municipal taxes levied for the payment of
bonded indebtedness, interest or judgments thereon.
   (E)   This section shall be effective after a certified copy has been filed
with the Faribault County Auditor and has been approved by the Municipal Board
of the State of Minnesota. It shall apply to the taxes payable in the calendar
year following such approval and subsequent years subject to amendment as
provided by law.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-28-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
51.   ELECTRIC AND WATER UTILITIES
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Sump pumps; roof water drainage
Sewer Use Regulations
   
50.15   Definitions
   
50.16   Control by the Wastewater Superintendents
   
50.17   Regulations for using collection system
   
50.18   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.19   Building sewers and connections
   
50.20   Use of public services
   
50.21   Damage of wastewater facilities
   
50.22   User rate schedule for charges
   
50.23   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.24   Violations
Sewer Service Charge System
   
50.35   Definitions
   
50.36   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
50.37   Determination of sewer service charges
   
50.38   Sewer Service Fund
   
50.39   Administration
   
50.40   Violations
   
50.41   Validity
   
50.42   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   
Electric and Water Utilities, see Ch. 51
   
Health and Safety; Nuisances, see Ch. 92
   
Land Usage, see Title XV
   
Streets and Sidewalks, see Ch. 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SUMP PUMPS; ROOF WATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the
city's sanitary sewer system shall allow the City of Wells employee(s) to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited
discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing to allow their
property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided for. Any property found to violate this section shall make
the necessary changes to comply with this section and changes shall be verified
by City of Wells employee(s).
   (B)   Any use of sump pumps by property owners in the City of Wells is
strictly prohibited unless the use is specifically authorized and allowed as
stated herein.
      (1)   No sump pumps shall be allowed to place, deposit, or pump water
into the Wells sanitary sewer system at any time unless the following
conditions are met.
         (a)   New subdivisions; all construction. A sump pump and rigid pipe
discharge connection to the outside shall be required for all construction in
new subdivisions when it is determined necessary by the City Building Official
or his or her designate to protect sanitary sewer infiltration. The Building
Official or designate shall conduct his or her analysis and make his or her
determination of soil conditions on a subdivision basis. The sump pump and
rigid pipe discharge requirement will apply to all units constructed within a
specific subdivision.
         (b)   Existing subdivisions; new construction. A new construction in a
subdivision platted prior to the effective date of this section shall be
examined by the City Building Official or his or her designate when the footing
inspection based upon excavated soils, whether the sump pump and rigid
connection are required. Should the building owner choose the option of
installing a sump pump and rigid connection where they are not required, they
shall be installed in accordance with divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(b) below.
         (c)   Existing subdivisions; existing construction. Any existing
construction in a subdivision platted prior to the effective date of this
section in which a sump and pump have been or will be installed shall be
required to install a rigid pipe connection discharge in accordance with
division (B)(2) below. It shall be unlawful to maintain any connection with the
sanitary sewer carrying roof water after the effective date of this section.
         (d)   Exceptions. In certain locations where surface storm water
discharge would create a safety hazard during freezing weather, connection to
the sanitary sewer may be maintained from October 15 to March 15. In no case
shall any connection to the sanitary sewer be maintained from March 15 to
October 15, unless granted by the City Council. Exceptions will be granted by
permit on a case by case basis as determined by the City Building Official or
his or her designate.
      (2)   All sump pumps shall comply with the following installation
requirements.
         (a)   The building shall have a drain tile placed around the inside or
outside perimeter of the foundation connected to a sump pit. All baseboard
seepage collection systems shall be discharged to the sump pit.
         (b)   A discharge pipe shall be installed to outside wall of the
building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized or black pipe) 1 inch
inside diameter minimum. The discharge pipe must have a check valve within 1
foot of the floor grade and a union or other approved coupling for easy
disconnection for repair or replacement. The discharge shall extend at least 3
feet outside of the foundation wall.
         (c)   All pipe installation shall be with approved P.V.C. piping. All
valves used and installed shall be capable of being sealed and unsealed by the
Wells City Building Official or his or her designate.
   (C)   Because surface storm water discharge will create a safety hazard
during freezing weather, connection to the sanitary sewer may be maintained
from October 15 to March 15. In no case shall any connection to the sanitary
sewer be maintained from March 15 to October 15, unless approved by the City
Council. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to ensure that the
appropriate connections are maintained throughout the year. The City Building
Official of Wells, or his or her designate shall be authorized to enter any and
all premises wherein sump pumps are believed to be, or are, connected to the
sanitary sewer system for purposes of inspecting the discharge connection.
   (D)   In addition to criminal violations as provided, the unauthorized use
of a sump pump during the period of March 15 to October 15 shall constitute the
basis for the City of Wells to levy on the landowner a civil penalty in the
amount of $100 per day to be added to the water/sewer bill of the landowner,
and, if not promptly paid, to be added to the tax levy on the property as
otherwise provided.
(Ord. 247, passed 1-7-2002; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§ 50.15 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as it may be amended from
time to time.
   A.S.T.M. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The Cities of Wells-Easton-Minnesota Lake, Minnesota, or its
representative thereof.
   B.O.D.5. or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in 5 days at 200°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the  building sewer, beginning
immediately outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (C.O.D.). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the Cities Wells-Easton-
Minnesota Lake as presently established or as amended by ordinance or other
legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used herein may also be used
to refer to the City Council and its authorized representative.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the N.P.D.S./
S.D.S. permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat the pollutants
to a degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the
permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade, or business, or from the
development, recovery, and processing of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly-owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through the means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface run-off, street wash waters, or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's N.P.D.S. and/or S.D.S. permit. The
term includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with
published regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. 1345, as it may be amended from time to time, or any regulations
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state criteria applicable to
the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   M.P.C.A. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by the treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of the treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. 1317(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (N.P.D.E.S.) PERMIT. A
permit issued by the M.P.C.A., setting limits on pollutants that a permittee
may legally discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§
402, being 33 U.S.C. 1342, and 405, being 33 U.S.C. 1345, of the Act, as they
may be amended from time to time.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a B.O.D.5. concentration not greater than 150 mg/l and a
suspended solids (T.S.S.) concentration not greater than 175 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   p.H. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
in terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCEMAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a public
authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained, and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface run-off, ground water, sub-surface water, street wash
water, drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow in excess of 25,000 gallons per average
workday; or has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility; or whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1317(a), as it may be amended from time
to time; or whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration of
flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (S.D.S.) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions, and requirements thereof) issued by the M.P.C.A. pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Superintendent or a deputy, agent, or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (T.S.S.). The total
suspended matter that either floats on the surface of or is in suspension in
water, wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering
as prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. 1317(a), as it may be amended from time to time.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water, and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation or municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   W.P.C.F. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 50.16 CONTROL BY THE WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENTS.
   The Wastewater Superintendents shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of §§ 50.15 etseq. to the end that a proper
and efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 50.17 REGULATIONS FOR USING COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of §§ 50.15 et seq. and the city's
N.P.D.S./S.D.S. permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner(s)
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this code, within 30 days of the date the public
sewer is operational, provided the public sewer is within 500 feet of the
structure generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on
property adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect
to the public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this
division (D), an official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the
affected property owner to make the connection.
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (D) above, the city must
undertake to have the connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against
the benefitted property. The assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at
the rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the Auditor
of the County of Faribault, Minnesota, and shall be collected and remitted to
the city in the same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights
of the city shall be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of
§§ 50.15 et seq.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.18 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of § 50.17
(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city.
The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary to the city.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city
or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of notice.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules, part
4830.0111, subpart 5, item A, subitem (1), unit b, subunit vi, as it may be
amended from time to time, entitled Individual Sewage Treatment System
Standards. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 30 days in compliance with §§ 50.15 et seq., and within
30 days any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal
systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit
drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the M.P.C.A. or the
Department of Health of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.19 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, B.O.D.5., and suspended
solids, as determined by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building beyond the limits of the building or
property for which the service connection permit has been given.
   (D)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or any other information considered pertinent in the judgement
of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered 1 building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection aforementioned.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of §§ 50.15 et seq.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall
apply.
   (I)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewer carried by the building drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off or ground water to
a building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing
Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual
of Practice No. 9. All the connections shall be made gas tight and watertight,
and verified by proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow.
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by
the city prior to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no permit shall
be granted to any person except the regularly licensed person.
   (O)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer for recommendations to the Council. If approved
by the Council, the license shall be issued by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer upon the filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (P)   No license shall be issued to any person until a $2,000 bond or a $300
cash bond to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and
save harmless the city from all suits, accidents, and damage that may arise by
reason of any opening in any street, alley, or public ground, made by the
licensee or by those in the licensee's employment for any purpose whatever, and
that the licensee will replace and restore the street and alley over the
opening to the condition existing prior to installation, adequately guard with
barricades and lights and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction
of the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, and shall conform in all respects to
the rules and regulations of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines
that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (Q)   (1)   The license fee for making service connections is $5. All
licenses shall expire in December of the license year unless the license is
suspended or revoked by the Council for cause.
      (2)   Upon failure to apply for a license renewal prior to the expiration
date thereof, the license fee for the ensuing year shall be $5.
(Am. Ord. 216, passed 9-19-1989)
   (R)   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
section for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee; and/or
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this section or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.20 USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as storm water, ground water, roof run-off, surface drainage, or
noncontact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water of
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the M.P.C.A.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud, or glass griding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and/or
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1317(a), as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation, and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger
lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may
set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if,
in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to the factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city's N.P.D.S. and/or S.D.S. permit, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as
follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/1, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
slug as defined in § 50.15;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in § 50.15. Garbage
grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or when served
by caterers;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage, or ground
water;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in the
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works in excess of the following limits for the materials:
         (a)   0.5 mg/l arsenic;
         (b)   0.5 mg/l cadmium;
         (c)   1.5 mg/l copper;
         (d)   0.5 mg/l cyanide;
         (e)   1.5 mg/l lead;
         (f)   0.05 mg/l mercury;
         (g)   1.5 mg/l nickel;
         (h)   0.5 mg/l silver;
         (i)   0.5 mg/l total chromium;
         (j)   1.5 mg/l zinc; and
         (k)   Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by city's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; and/or
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing B.O.D.5. or suspended solids of
the character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be
permitted by specific written agreement subject to the provisions of division
(Q) below.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which in the judgment
of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
treatment facilities, processes, or equipment; receiving waters, and/or soil,
vegetation, and ground water; or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1317(b),
and all addendums thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating,
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation, and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment shall be made at the owners' expense, and shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the M.P.C.A.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (C)
and (D) above, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
or any state requirements.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
   (H)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
division (D) above, any flammable wastes as specified in division (C) above,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means,
and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collecting
materials not performed by the owner's personnel, must be performed by a
currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   (I)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes.
The structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests, or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with §§50.15 et seq. and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents with federal, state, and
local standards being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements
and laboratory analyses to the city at the times and in the manner as
prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements,
analyses, and reporting required by the city. At the times as deemed necessary,
the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
independent laboratory.
   (K)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§ 50.15 et seq. shall be determined
in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by §§ 50.15 et seq. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user's
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of §§ 50.15 et seq. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of §§ 50.15 et seq. to
enable countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to
the wastewater treatment works. The notification will not relieve any user of
any liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the wastewater treatment
system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account
thereof under any state and federal law. Employees shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or discover a discharge are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (M)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30
days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if 1 already exists,
shall clean out, repair, or alter the same, and perform the other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Superintendent may cause the work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (N)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this division (N), and
the Superintendent may then cause the work to be done, and recover from the
owner or agency the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
   (O)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt, or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (P)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of §§ 50.15 et seq., the city may assess against any person the cost
of repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result
of the discharge or prohibited wastes by the applicable to the type of service,
and in accordance with the provisions set forth in §§ 50.35 et seq.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Cities of Wells-
Easton-Minnesota Lake and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and the city's
N.P.D.E.S. and/or State Disposal System Permit limitations are not violated,
and the user pays operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in proportion
to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to
the treatment plant, and no user is charged at a rate less than that of Normal
Domestic Strength Wastewater.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.21 DAMAGE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest
under the charge of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.22 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charge(s) applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions of ordinances and resolutions as
may be adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.23 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city's sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of §§ 50.15 et seq.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential, however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or failure of the
company to maintain safe conditions as required in § 50.20.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 50.24 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§ 50.15 et
seq., shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
      (2)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§ 50.15 et seq. shall
become liable to the city for any reason of the violation.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-3-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 50.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§ 50.35 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (such as, billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or B.O.D.5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the Cities of Wells-
Easton-Minnesota Lake, as presently established or as amended by ordinance or
other legal actions at a future time. When used herein, the term CITY may also
refer to the City Council or its authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a B.O.D.5. and/or T.S.S. greater
than domestic waste as defined in the definition for NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH
WASTEWATER above and not otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies, or instrumentalities of
federal, state, or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entitles that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental
under 1 of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
            2.   Division B - Mining;
            3.   Division D - Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas,
and Sanitary Sewers; and
            5.   Division I - Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   B.O.D.5. - less than 150 mg/l; and
            2.   Suspended solids - less than 175 mg/l.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade, or business, including, but not limited to, all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E, and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial,
or residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., nonprofit organizations).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with B.O.D.5. concentrations not greater than 150 mg/
l and suspended solids concentrations not greater than 175 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated, and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for 1 or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments, and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users to the city's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the Sewer Service Fund will be for operation, maintenance, and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration or
flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (T.S.S.). The total
suspended matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in
water, wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering
as prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. 1317(a), as it may be amended from time to time, which upon
exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, nonresidential, and industrial establishments
which are connected to the public sewer collection system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water, and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
§ 50.36 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Cities of Wells-Easton-Minnesota Lake hereby establishes a sewer
service charge system whereby all revenue collected from users of the
wastewater treatment facilities will be used to affect all expenditures
incurred for annual operation, maintenance, and replacement and for debt
service on capital expenditure incurred in constructing the wastewater
treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a sewer service charge system
developed according to the provisions of §§50.35 et seq. The sewer service
charge system developed with the assistance of Bolton & Menk, Inc., shall be
adopted by resolution upon enactment of §§50.35 et seq., shall be published in
the local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent
changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by Council
resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
(Am. Ord. 212, passed 1-3-1989)
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund know as The Sewer Service Fund. Income from revenues collected will be
expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance, and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provision of § 50.39.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.37 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   User charges.
      (1)   Users of the Cities of Wells-Easton-Minnesota Lake wastewater
treatment works shall be identified as belonging to 1 of the following user
classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Governmental;
         (d)   Institutional; or
         (e)   Industrial.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the city clerks or Public Works Director. Allocation of users to user classes
shall be based on the substantive intent of the definitions of these classes
contained herein.
   (B)   Costs. Each user shall pay operation, maintenance, and replacement
costs in proportion to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater
flows and loadings to the treatment plant, with the minimum rate for loadings
of B.O.D. and T.S.S. being the rate established for concentrations of 150 mg/
l B.O.D. and 175 mg/l T.S.S. (i.e., normal domestic strength wastewater). Those
industrial users discharging segregated normal domestic strength wastewater
only can be classified as commercial users for the purpose of rate
determination.
   (C)   Billable wastewater volume. The charges assessed residential users and
those users of other classes discharging normal domestic strength wastewater
shall be established proportionately according to billable wastewater volume.
Billable wastewater volume shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   Residential users. Billable wastewater volume for residential users
shall be calculated on 100% of the metered water usage throughout the year.
      (2)   Nonresidential users. The billable wastewater volume of
nonresidential users will be calculated on 100% of the metered water usage
throughout the year or calculated on the basis of wastewater flow meters. The
city may, at its discretion, require nonresidential users to install the
additional water meters or wastewater flow meters as may be necessary to
determine billable wastewater volume.
   (D)   Determination of user charges. User charges for normal domestic users
shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   Calculation of unit cost for treatment of normal domestic strength
wastewater.
         (a)   Uomr = Comr/Tbwv.
         (b)   Where:
            1.   Uomr = unit cost for operation, maintenance, and replacement
in;
            2.   Comr = total annual OM & R costs; and
            3.   Tbwv = total annual billable wastewater volume in kgal.
      (2)   Calculation of user charge.
         (a)   Uc = Uomr x bwv.
         (b)   Where:
            1.   Uc = user charge;
            2.   Uomr = unit cost for operation, maintenance, and replacement
in $/kgal; and
            3.   bwv = billable wastewater volume of a particular user in kgal.
   (E)   Recovery of local construction costs. Local construction costs of the
wastewater treatment facility will be recovered through a debt service charge
calculated using usage, connection, and general taxes as follows.
      (1)   Calculation of debt service unit cost for wastewater volume.
         (a)   Uds = Cds/Tbwv.
         (b)   Where:
            1.   Uds = unit cost for debt service in $/kgal;
            2.   Cds = cost of annual debt service assigned for wastewater
volume; and
            3.   Tbwv = total annual billable wastewater volume in kgal.
      (2)   Calculation of debt service billable connection cost.
         (a)   UD = CDC/TC.
         (b)   Where:
            1.   UD = unit billable connection cost for debt service;
            2.   CDC = costs of annual debt service assigned for connections;
and
            3.   Tc = total number of billable connections.
      (3)   Calculation of debt service charge.
         (a)   Dc = Uds x bwv + UD x U.
         (b)   Where:
            1.   Dc = debt service charge;
            2.   Uds = unit cost for debt service in $/kgal;
            3.   UD = unit billable connection cost for debt service;
            4.   U = number of billable connections for particular user; and
            5.   bwv = billable wastewater volume of a particular user in kgal.
   (F)   Determination of sewer service charges. The sewer service charge for a
particular connection shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   SSC = Uc + Dc.
      (2)   Where:
         (a)   SSC = sewer service charge;
         (b)   Uc = user charge; and
         (c)   Dc = debt service charge.
   (G)   Wastewater collection system charges.
      (1)   The cities may elect to charge an additional fee for wastewater
collection system maintenance or replacement of necessary collection system
lines.
      (2)   This charge will be added to the SSC.
   (H)   Existing stabilization pond usage charges. An additional annual fee
will be charged to Minnesota Lake and Easton for the usage of the City of Wells
existing stabilization ponds. The usage charge has been established at $8,865
per year and $3,195 per year for Minnesota Lake and Easton, respectively, for a
20-year period. This charge will be added to the SSC for Minnesota Lake and
Easton and subtracted for Wells.
   (I)   Assessment of additional charges.
      (1)   The sewer service charges established in §§ 50.35 et seq. shall not
prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge wastes with
concentrations greater than normal domestic strength or wastes of unusual
character, or contractual agreements with the users, as long as the following
conditions are met.
         (a)   The user pays operation, maintenance, and replacements costs in
proportion to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, and no user is charged at a rate less than
that of normal domestic strength wastewater.
         (b)   The measurements of the wastes are conducted according to the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
in a manner acceptable to the city as provided for in §§ 50.15 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 212, passed 1-3-1989)
      (2)   A study of unit costs of collection and treatment processes
attributable to flow, B.O.D., T.S.S., and other significant loadings shall be
developed for determining the proportionate allocation of costs to flows and
loadings for users discharging wastes of greater than normal domestic strength
or wastes of unusual character.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
§ 50.38 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The Cities of Wells-Easton-Minnesota Lake hereby establishes a
Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to receive all revenues generated by the
sewer service charge system, and all other income dedicated to the operation,
maintenance, replacement, and construction of the wastewater treatment works,
including taxes, special charges, fees, and assessments intended to retire
construction debt.
      (2)   The city also establishes the following accounts as income and
expenditure accounts within the Sewer Service Fund:
         (a)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
         (b)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
         (c)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the city
clerks or Public Works Director separate and apart from all other funds of the
city. Funds received by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the
Operation and Maintenance Account, the Equipment Replacement Account, and the
Debt Retirement Account in accordance with state and federal regulations and
the provisions of §§50.35 et seq.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge sufficient to insure
adequate replacement throughout the design of useful life, whichever is longer,
of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the Equipment
Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs. Interest
income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in the
Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
§ 50.39 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions.
   (A)   (1)   The city clerks or Public Works Director shall maintain a proper
system of accounts suitable for determining the operation and maintenance,
equipment replacement, and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and
shall furnish the City Council or authorized representative with a report of
the costs annually in January.
      (2)   The City Council or authorized representative shall annually
determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated for the
effective operation, maintenance, replacement, and management of the treatment
works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement.
The Councils or authorized representative will also determine whether the user
charges are distributed proportionately to each user in accordance with § 50.36
and § 204(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.
      (3)   The cities shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the
year, reassess, and as necessary revise the sewer service charge system then in
use to insure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the
sufficiency of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the
facilities were constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the city clerks or
Public Works Director shall be responsible for maintaining all records
necessary to document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   (1)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly
basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due
30 days from the date of rendering.
      (2)   Any bill not paid in full after the due date will be considered
delinquent.
      (3)   At that time, the city shall notify the delinquent owner/occupant
in writing regarding the delinquent bill and subsequent penalty.
      (4)   The penalty shall be computed as 10% of the original bill.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
the premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
§ 50.40 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to §§ 50.35
et seq. is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises serviced, and all the
charges which are on December of each year past due and delinquent shall be
certified to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate.
Nothing in §§ 50.35 et seq. shall be held or construed as in any way stopping
or interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments
against any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
   (B)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect the amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner, or user of the real estate, and shall collect as
well all attorney's fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action. The
attorney's fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
   (C)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the state's allowable interest rate.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
§ 50.41 VALIDITY.
   The sewer service charge system shall take precedence over any terms or
conditions of contracts which are inconsistent with the requirements of § 204
(b)(1)(A) of the Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and 40 C.F.R. pt.
35.2140, as it may be amended from time to time, of the Environment Agency's
grant regulations.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
§ 50.42 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 50.35 et seq. shall be in full force and take effect from and after
1-1-1989.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-7-1988)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC AND WATER UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Electric light plant and water works system; establishment
   
51.02   Superintendent
   
51.03   Meters; generally
   
51.04   Applications; permits
   
51.05   Rent and charges to be paid
   
51.06   Violations
   
51.07   Posting of advertisements
   
51.08   Equipment
   
51.09   Overhead conductors
Water Regulations
   
51.20   Licensed plumbers
   
51.21   Taps and connections
   
51.22   Laying of pipes
   
51.23   Stop cocks
   
51.24   Consumer regulations
   
51.25   Fire situations
Electricity Regulations
   
51.40   Conductors
   
51.41   Insulating coverings; air space
   
51.42   Double pole safety cut outs
   
51.43   Safety fuses
   
51.44   Switches
   
51.45   Fixtures
   
51.46   Arc lights
   
51.47   Flexible cords
Utility Franchises
   
51.60   Electric utility franchises
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT AND WATER WORKS SYSTEM; ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Council shall have power and it is their duty to install,
establish, complete, maintain, and control all necessary buildings, machinery,
apparatus, and material necessary to run and operate an electric light plant
and water works system within the City of Wells, and to furnish and supply
water and electric light for public and private use, and to that end shall
maintain, preserve, and operate the electric light plant and water works system
now owned by and being installed within the city, and shall furnish water from
the water works system and light from the electric light plant to the citizens
of the city upon their complying in all things with all the terms and
conditions of this and all other ordinances hereafter enacted or adopted by the
city and upon the citizen filing with the recorder an application as
hereinafter provided and paying to the city the amount charged for the light or
water as the case may be.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
§ 51.02 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Council shall appoint a Superintendent whose duty it shall
be to in all things look after the running and operating of the electric light
plant and water works system; who shall before entering upon the discharge of
his or her duties, execute to the city a bond with sufficient sureties in the
penal sum of $2,000, to be approved by the City Council, conditioned for the
faithful performance of all the duties pertaining to the running and management
of the electric light plant and water works system, and account to the Council
at all times for any moneys or other thing of value that may come into his or
her control as the Superintendent belonging to the city and to pay over all
moneys by him or her in any manner collected to the order of the City Council,
taking a receipt therefor and immediately filing the receipt with the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to collect any and all
moneys due or owing to the city on account of the electric light plant or water
works system when ordered so to do by the City Council; see that all
assessments are properly made end enforced, personally superintend and oversee
the laying of all pipes, repairing of all wires end conductors, and in all
things personally oversee and attend to all work necessary for the successful
running and operating of the business, keep an accurate account of all things
and matters done in connection with the running of the plant or system, and
make a detailed statement of the same at the end of each month and file the
same with the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer on or before the fifth day of
each following month, and to perform the other duties as the Council may from
time to time prescribe.
   (B)   Every person taking water or light shall permit the Superintendent to
enter their premises at all reasonable hours to examine the pipes, wires,
lights, and other fixtures and the manner in which the same is used and
managed, and they shall answer all proper questions put to them relative to the
same.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
§ 51.03 METERS; GENERALLY.
   The Council shall have the right to order a meter to be applied to any
service pipe or wire whenever they may deem it advisable and collect meter
rates for water or light, and all parties accepting meter rates in preference
to special or established rates shall pay for the meter and the cost of placing
the same.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.04 APPLICATIONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   Persons desiring to tap any water main for the purpose of using water
from any water main and attaching service pipes thereto, or any person wishing
to use the light from the electric plant and connecting any service wire to the
main circuit conductor or wires, shall file a written application with the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, stating in detail the number and kind of lights
desired or the uses to which the water is to be applied, the premises, upon or
in which the same is to be used; when it shall be the duty of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer to at once notify the President of the filing of
the same and the President and the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall at
once examine and allow or disallow the same.
   (B)   If allowed, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish the
applicant with a permit duly executed, allowing the request contained in the
application, but the lights or water shall not be used in any manner or for any
other purpose than as stated in the application, and not more than 1 house and
the outilage shall be supplied from 1 tap except by permission in writing from
the City Council; all applications or the blanks for the same shall be
furnished free of cost by the city upon application to the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
§ 51.05 RENT AND CHARGES TO BE PAID.
   The water shall not be turned into any private service pipe, nor any private
service wire be connected with the main conductor or circuit wire, except for
the purpose of testing the service pipes or wires and lights, without the
permission of the Council expressly given, unless the applicant shall have
previously paid the rent and charges then due for the current term.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
§ 51.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person using water from the water works system or light from the
electric light plant, who shall violate any of the conditions of this or any
other ordinance or regulation hereafter enacted or adopted by the city, shall
be punished by having the water or light as the case may be cut off from the
building or place of the violation, and the same shall not be let on again
except by order of the City Council and upon the payment of the actual expense
of shutting the same off and turning it on again.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.07 POSTING OF ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall post any advertisements of any kind or nature whatever upon
any building or pole pertaining to the electric light plant or water work
system of the City of Wells.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.08 EQUIPMENT.
   All machinery, station wiring, switch boards and other station equipment
pertaining to the plant or system shall be maintained as near as possible as
now installed.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.09 OVERHEAD CONDUCTORS.
   Outside overhead conductors shall be separated not less than 12 inches and
be provided with an approved fusible cutout that will cut off the entire
current as near as possible to the entrance to the building and inside the
walls.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 LICENSED PLUMBERS.
   The Council may license, for the term of 1 year, 1 or more citizens of the
city to be known as licensed plumbers, who shall, before doing any business,
give a bond to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer with sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, in the penal sum as
the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer requires, not less than $1,000, nor more
than $2,000, with condition that he or she will in all things well and truly
conform to all the terms and conditions of this and all subsequent ordinances
and regulations enacted or adopted by the city in relation to the electric
light plant and water works system, and that he or she will in all things save
harmless the city from damages on account of any work or services by him or her
done or performed in connection with the works, and that he or she will perform
all work or services by him or her undertaken in connection with the business
in a first class workmanlike manner, any violation of any of the terms of this
chapter shall work a forfeiture of the license, and it shall be the duty of the
Council to revoke the license upon proof to them of any violation on the part
of any person so licensed.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
§ 51.21 TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   No person except the Superintendent or a duly licensed plumber shall tap any
main, insert stop cocks or ferrules therein, and all taps and connections shall
be of the kind and size only as specified in the permit allowing the same to be
placed, and all mains or pipes shall be tapped on or near the tap and at least
6 inches from the hub or joint. No connection shall be allowed until the
applicant has paid the amount as set by City Council into the city treasury nor
will the same be maintained except upon the payment by the applicant of at
least the amount as set by City Council per annum as rent therefor.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.22 LAYING OF PIPES.
   (A)   All services pipe shall be laid as much under the surface of the
ground as the street mains are in front of the premises where the same is laid,
and be so protected as to prevent rupture by freezing. In laying service pipes,
all plumbing shall be done to the property line before any street excavation
therefor shall be made, and no person shall make any excavation in any street
or highway within 6 feet of any laid water main or pipe while the ground is
frozen, or dig up or uncover so as expose to the frost any water pipe, main, or
sewer except by permission duly granted by the Council.
   (B)   In making excavations in streets or highways, the earth or other
substance removed must be deposited so as to occasion as little inconvenience
to the public as possible, and so as to allow the free passage of water along
gutters, and no excavation shall be left open at any time without proper guards
or signals of warning against any danger that may exist on account of the same.
   (C)   No water pipes laid under ground shall be covered or the trenches
filled, until the same has been thoroughly tested and found to be watertight.
   (D)   Applicants for water will be charged from the center of the street for
all service pipes and the laying of the same without regard to the location of
the water mains, and the Council shall make arrangements with plumbers or
others to carry this clause into effect so that all persons may be treated
equally and impartially.
   (E)   (1)   No service pipe or other attachment, which by reason of the
construction and laying of the same will be beneath the surface of the ground,
shall hereafter be made to any of the mains, except the same be by brass ferule
and lend pipe, all lead pipe so laid shall be at least 1/8 of an inch larger
than the tap through which it is supplied, and all joints shall be wipe joints
or Clow patent lead pipe connections, and shall be laid sufficiently waving to
allow 1-foot extra length to every 50 feet, and in such a manner as to prevent
rupture by settlement. In no case will lead pipe be allowed in service pipes
weighing less per foot than as follows:
         (a)   Lead pipe, 3/8-inch medium, 2 pounds per foot;
         (b)   Lead pipe, ½-inch strong, 2 pounds, 8 ounces per foot;
         (c)   Lead pipe, 5/8-inch strong, 3 pounds per foot;
         (d)   Lead pipe, 3/4-inch strong, 3 pounds, 8 ounces per foot; and
         (e)   Lead pipe, 1½-inch extra strong, 8 pounds per foot.
      (2)   Every service pipe shall be provided with stop waste cock for each
consumer, easily accessible, so situate that the water can be conveniently shut
off and drained from the pipes, and in no case shall lead pipes be soldered to
iron.
(Am. Ord. 55, passed 2-7-1905)
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.23 STOP COCKS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for, stop cocks shall be placed in the
service pipe, on or near the edge of the sidewalks, near the curb line, and
protected by a box or iron pipe reaching from the tap to the surface, of
suitable size to admit a stop key for turning on and off the stop, with a heavy
metal cover even with the pavement or planking.
   (B)   All house boilers shall be constructed with 1 or more air holes near
the top of the inlet pipe, and be sufficiently strong to bear the pressure of
atmosphere under vacuum. The stop cock and other appurtenances shall be
sufficiently strong to bear the pressure, and run off the water in the mains.
All patrons shall keep their over service pipes, stop cocks, and apparatus in
good repair, and protect the same from frost and prevent unnecessary waste of
voter. The City Council shall have the right to cut off the supply of water,
any permit to the contrary notwithstanding. The city shall not be liable to the
takers of water for damages arising from the breaking of any service pipe,
service cock, or other apparatus, or for a failure to supply water or for any
other cause in connection with the working of the same.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.24 CONSUMER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons taking water shall keep the hydrant, tap, hose, water
closet, urinals, bath, or other fixtures and connections allotted to their use
closed except when obtaining water for use, and all other closets must be self
closing.
   (B)   Water used through pipes intended to supply 2 or more distinct
promises or tenements, and where only 1 tap is used, shall be paid for by the
person having the same under control.
   (C)   No hose shall be used except by permission of the Council and the same
shall not exceed 3/4 of an inch in diameter, and shall be then used with a
nozzle which shall not exceed 1/4 of an inch in diameter unless especially
permitted so to do by the Council.
   (D)   Hose for sprinkling yards, gardens, and streets shall be used only
between the first day of April and the first day of November and not then
except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. and 9:00
p.m. If allowed to run at any other time, the water shall be cut off without
previous notice, and the same must be used for the purposes with as little
waste as possible and upon the premises of the party only. This division (D)
does not apply to market gardens, nurseries, and greenhouses but water will be
charged for at special rates for the purposes.
   (E)   Proprietors of lumber yards, manufactories, halls, stores, elevators,
warehouses, hotels, and other public buildings, who are regular consumers of
water wishing to lay large pipes, with hydrant and hose couplings, to be used
only in case of fire will, upon application be permitted to connect with the
street mains at their own expense and will be allowed the use of water free of
charge for fire purposes.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.25 FIRE SITUATIONS.
   (A)   During all alarms of fire, or while the fire pressure is on the mains,
for fire purposes, the use of sprinklers or elevators is positively forbidden
except for the extinguishment of fire.
   (B)   All hydrants erected for the extinguishment of fires are hereby
declared to be public hydrants and no persons other than members of the Fire
Department of the city, and then only for the purpose of extinguishing fire, or
persons especially authorized by the Council, shall open any of the hydrants,
or attempt to drain water from the same or in any manner interfere with the
same.
   (C)   Persons authorized to open hydrants shall not delegate their authority
to any other person or suffer any person to take the wrenches furnished him or
her, or suffer the same to be taken from any building where the same are kept
except for purposes strictly connected with the Fire Department.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ELECTRICITY REGULATIONS
§ 51.40 CONDUCTORS.
   Conductors must have an approved insulating covering, and shall not be of
size small than No. 16 Brown & Sharpe gauge, and shall be protected when
passing through floors, walls, partitions, timbers, and the like, in places
liable to be exposed to dampness by waterproof, non-combustible, insulating
tubes or hard rubber tubing and when not liable to be exposed to dampness by
approved insulating bushings specially made for the purpose. They shall be so
supported as to be kept free from contact with gas, water, or other metallic
piping, or any other conductors or conducting material which they may cross
(except high potential conductors) by some continuous and firmly fixed non-
conductor creating a separation of at least 1 inch. They shall be so placed in
crossing high potential conductors that there shall be a space of at least 12
inches at all points between the high and low tension conductors; and in wet
places so that an air space will be left between conductors and pipes in
crossing and the former must be run in a way that they cannot come in contact
with the pipe accidentally; wires should be run over all pipes upon which
condensed moisture is likely to gather, or which by leaking might cause
trouble, on a circuit.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.41 INSULATING COVERINGS; AIR SPACE.
   (A)   Wiring not encased in moulding or approved conduit, shall be supported
wholly on non-combustible insulators, constructed so as to prevent the
insulating coverings of the wire from coming in contact with other substances
then the insulating supports. They shall be so arranged that wires of opposite
polarity, with a difference of potential of 250 volts or less, will be kept
apart at least 2½ inches, and the above distance shall be increased
proportionately where a higher voltage is used. In no event shall the wiring be
laid in plaster, cement, or similar finish or fastened with staples.
   (B)   All wiring not encased in moulding or approved conduit, in unfinished
lofts, between floor and ceilings, in partitions, and other concealed places,
shall have at least 1 inch clear air space surrounding them, and shall not be
less than 2½ inches apart when possible. Wires run as above immediately under
roofs, in proximity to water tanks or pipes, will be considered as exposed to
moisture. Wires must not be fished for any great distance and only in places
where the Superintendent can satisfy himself or herself that the rules have
been complied with, and twin wires shall never be employed in this class of
concealed work.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.42 DOUBLE POLE SAFETY CUT OUTS.
   Double pole safety cut outs shall always be in plain sight or enclosed in an
approved box, readily accessible, and shall be placed at every point where a
change is made in the size of the wire unless the cutout in the large wire will
protect the smaller. They shall be supported on bases of non-combustible,
insulating, moisture proof material and shall be supplied with a plug or other
device for enclosing the fusible strip or wire, made of non-combustible and
moisture proof material, and so constructed that an arc cannot be maintained
across its terminals by the fusing of the metal. They shall be so placed that
on any combination fixture no group of lamps requiring a current of 6 amperes
or more shall be ultimately dependent upon 1 cut-out, and all cut out blocks
shall be stamped with their maximum safe-carrying capacity in amperes, and when
installed shall be marked with the currenty they are intended to carry.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.43 SAFETY FUSES.
   Safety fuses shall be stamped or marked with the number of amperes they will
carry indefinitely without melting, and shall have fusible wires or strips
(where the plug or equivalent device is not used) with contact surfaces or tips
of harder metal, soldered or otherwise, having perfect electrical connection
with the fusible part of the strip, and they shall be so proportioned to the
conductors they are intended to protect that they will melt before the maximum
safe carrying capacity of the wire is exceeded.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.44 SWITCHES.
   Switches must be mounted on moisture proof and noncombustible bases, such as
slate or porcelain and shall be double pole when the circuits which they
control supply more than 20 16-candle power lamps, or their equivalent. They
shall have a firm and secure contact; must make and break readily and not stop
when motion has been once imparted by the handle; they shall have carrying
capacity sufficient to prevent breaking. They shall be placed in dry,
accessible places and be grouped as far as possible, being mounted when
practicable upon slate or equally non-combustible backboards. Jackknife
switches, whether provided with friction or spring stops, shall be so placed
that gravity will tend to open rather then close the switch.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.45 FIXTURES.
   Fixture work, when fixtures are wired outside, the conductors shall be so
secured as not to be cut or abraded by the pressure of the fastenings or motion
of the fixture, and all conductors for fixture work shall have a waterproof
insulation that is curable and not easily abraded, and shall not in any case be
smaller then No. 18 Brown & Sharpe gauge. All burrs or fins must be removed
before the conductors are drawn into the fixture. All fixtures shall be tested
for contacts between conductors and fixtures, for short circuits, and for
ground connections before the fixture is connected to its supply conductors.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.46 ARC LIGHTS.
   All arc lights on low potential circuits shall be supplied by branch
conductors not smaller than No. 14 Brown Sharpe gauge wire and be connected
with main conductors only through double pole cut-outs, and shall be furnished
with the resistance or regulators as are enclosed in noncombustible material,
but in no case shall incandescent lamps be used for resistant devices, and all
arc lights stall be properly protected and supplied with proper globes.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.47 FLEXIBLE CORDS.
   Flexible cords must be made of conductors, each surrounded with a moisture
proof, non-inflammable layer, and further insulated from each other by a
mechanical separator of carbonzible material, and each conductor shall be
composed of several strands, and be protected by insulating bushings where the
cord enters the socket, and be so suspended that the entire weight of the
socket and lamp will be borne by knots above the rosette.
(Ord. 24, passed 4-4-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
UTILITY FRANCHISES
§ 51.60 ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Wells, County of Faribault, State of Minnesota, and the
corporate limits thereof on the effective date and as they may be adjusted,
decreased, or increased from time to time hereafter.
      ELECTRIC SERVICE PROVIDER. An electric utility, and a person who performs
any 1 or more of the activities described in division (C) below, and, may, as
contemplated therein, be the ultimate user or consumer of the electric energy.
      ELECTRIC UTILITY. A person now or hereafter operating, maintaining or
controlling equipment or facilities for furnishing electric service at retail
within city, regardless of the nature of the ownership of the person, and also
includes but not by way of limitation, a cooperative electric association, an
investor-owned utility, a municipally owned utility and any joint venture,
partnership or other combination of the foregoing.
      FRANCHISE FEE. The consideration paid or provided to city as described in
division (E) below.
      PERSON. A natural person, any partnership, joint venture, corporation,
cooperative, limited liability company, or any public corporation, political
subdivision, or agency of the state or any other legal entity that may be
created or recognized by law.
   (B)   Findings of the City Council.
      (1)   The laws of the State of Minnesota permit the city to require an
electric utility to obtain from the city a license, permit, right, or franchise
in order for the electric utility to provide electric utility services within
the city.
      (2)   As a condition of the license, permit, right, or franchise, the
city may require that the utility pay fees to the city to raise revenue or
defray costs accruing as a result of utility operations, or both.
      (3)   Electric utilities and other electric service providers use,
occupy, or otherwise benefit from the use of the city's streets or highways or
other public property.
      (4)   The city has operated its municipal electric system for many years,
all to the benefit of the city, its taxpayers, residents, and electric
customers.
      (5)   The municipal electric system of the city contributes to the
general welfare of the city by providing goods and services of substantial
value, and by paying financial consideration which benefits the general fund of
the city and its residents.
      (6)   It is lawful and fair for the city to require any electric service
provider which provides electric services within the city to contribute to the
general fund of the city in a manner similar to the contributions made by the
municipal electric system.
      (7)   The application of uniform standards and requirements to all
existing and future electric service providers within and throughout the city,
including the imposition of franchise and franchise fee requirements, will
promote the public welfare and safety, will afford all city electric utility
customers and taxpayers reasonably comparable and equitable treatment by the
city, and will remove 1 measure of unfairness which may affect the ability of
the city's electric utility to fairly compete with other electric service
providers.
   (C)   Franchise required.
      (1)   A written franchise agreement with the city shall be required of
every person and entity, to the full extent permitted by M.S. § 216B.36, as it
may be amended from time to time, in order for that person or entity to do any
of the following:
         (a)   Operate an electric utility or perform any 1 or more of the
traditional functions of an electric utility, including, but not by way of
limitation, producing, transmitting, furnishing, or delivering electric energy
or causing to be produced, transmitted, furnished, or delivered electric energy
for light, power, heat, or other purposes, at retail to or for the public or to
or for any other person within the corporate limits of the city;
         (b)   Use, place, or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent lines,
wires, or fixtures in over, upon, or under any street or public place within
the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of distributing, furnishing,
or delivering or causing to be distributed, furnished, or delivered electric
power or energy for use at retail by persons within the city;
         (c)   Interconnect or cause an interconnection between any electric
transmission or distribution system, wherever located, and any building,
structure, or facility of any kind within the city for the purpose of
distributing, furnishing, or delivering or causing to be distributed,
furnished, or delivered electric power or energy for use at retail by persons
within the city;
         (d)   Interconnect or cause an interconnection between any electric
transmission or distribution system, wherever located, and any building,
structure, or facility of any kind within the city for the purpose of
distributing, furnishing, or delivering or causing to be distributed,
furnished, or delivered electric power or energy for use at retail by persons
within the city; or
         (e)   Receive for consumption electric energy within the city from any
person not franchised by the city except upon payment to the city of a
franchise fee, as provided in division (E) below.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person or entity shall be
required to obtain a franchise under this section if it furnishes its services
solely to tenants or cooperative or condominium owners in building owned,
leased, or operated by the person or entity; solely to occupants of a
manufactured home or trailer park owned, leased, or operated by the person or
entity; or produces or furnishes services to less than 25 persons worldwide.
      (3)   A franchise shall be granted only by ordinance. Every ordinance
granting a franchise shall contain all the terms and conditions of the
franchise, except to the extent reserved to the Council, by this section, any
other city ordinance, or by law for the public health and safety. The grantee
shall bear the costs of publication of the franchise ordinance and shall make a
sufficient deposit with the city to guarantee publication before the ordinance
is passed.
   (D)   Term. No exclusive or perpetual franchise or privilege shall ever be
granted or created nor shall any franchise or privilege be granted for a term
of more than 20 years.
   (E)   Required consideration.
      (1)   (a)   As a part of any franchise ordinance adopted, the city shall
impose upon the grantee a franchise fee. The franchise fee may be expressed as
a specified charge per kilowatt hour of electric energy transmitted, furnished,
delivered, or received, which fees shall be calculated by the City Council, and
imposed upon each kilowatt hour of electric energy transmitted, furnished,
delivered, or received within the city; as a percentage of the gross revenues
or other consideration billed, charged, and payable for the production,
transmission, furnishing, delivery, or receipt of electric energy and power
within the city; or in the other manner or fashion as allowed by law.
         (b)   The franchise fee may be changed by ordinance from time to time;
however, no change shall be adopted until at least 30 days after written notice
enclosing the proposed ordinance has been served upon the grantee of a
franchise by certified mail. The franchise fee may not be changed more often
than once in each calendar year.
      (2)   If, for whatever reason, a franchise ordinance, as required by
division (C) above, is not in force, a franchise fee shall nonetheless be due
and payable to the city. The franchise fee, in the circumstances, shall be
calculated by the City Council to provide to the city the financial or other
consideration as would be payable to city under the terms of other franchise
ordinances governing other electric service providers or, if there be none, an
amount reasonably comparable to the city's electric utility payments to the
city general fund plus the fair market value of the city's electric utility
provision of goods and services to and for the benefit of the city as may be in
effect from time to time.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon adoption and
publication as provided by law. No electric service provider currently
providing retail electric service within the city shall be subject to divisions
(C) or (E) above until 90 days from the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 243, passed 11-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
52.01   Dumping of refuse
§ 52.01 DUMPING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul refuse and dump the same
at or upon the city dump located on real property owned by the City of Wells,
Faribault County, Minnesota, described as follows, to-wit, NW 1/4 of the NW 1/
4 of § 15, Township 103, north of Range 24, west of the 5th P. M., without
first obtaining written permission so to do from either the so called garbage
collector of the City of Wells, or the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The prohibition above stated shall extend to the center of the highway
running north and south parallel with and as a part of the above described
property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, damage, or destroy
fences, gates, or regulation notices for the use of the dumping ground, or any
other property belonging to the City of Wells located upon the above described
property.
(Ord. 125, passed 6-4-1940)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Highway Traffic Regulation Act adopted by reference
   
70.02   Bicycles; licensing and regulation
   
70.03   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.04   Parking; emergency weather conditions and snow emergency routes
   
70.05   Parking certain semi-trailers or tractors on public streets prohibited
   
70.06   Horse racing, riding
Snowmobiles and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Purpose
   
70.22   Operation on lawns, sidewalks, boulevards prohibited
   
70.23   Age restrictions
   
70.24   Speed limits
   
70.25   Operation in city parks
   
70.26   Stop requirements
   
70.27   Hours of operation
   
70.28   Must operate in single file
   
70.29   Towing another conveyance
   
70.30   Operation prohibited on certain streets
General Traffic and Parking Regulations
   
70.45   Careless driving
   
70.46   Speed regulations
   
70.47   Operating and turning vehicles
   
70.48   Parking regulations
   
70.49   Special regulations in congested district
   
70.50   Duties of drivers after accidents
   
70.51   Driver’s license; vehicle ownership
   
70.52   Equipment
   
70.53   Emergency vehicles
   
70.54   Driving under the influence of liquor or narcotics
   
70.55   Pedestrians
   
70.56   Glass and other injurious substances on highways
Golf Carts
   
70.70   Definitions
   
70.71   Driving, operating or control of motorized golf carts
   
70.72   Permits
   
70.73   Permit issuance
   
70.74   Fees
   
70.75   Unlawful acts
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways,
streets, and alleys within the City of Wells, Minnesota, and are hereby
incorporated in and made a part of this section as completely as if set out
here in full.
(Ord. 146, passed 7-2-1957)
§ 70.02 BICYCLES; LICENSING AND REGULATION.
   (A)   License required. No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any
street or other public highway in the city or upon any part thereof without
first having secured and attached to the bicycle a proper license tag as
provided hereinafter.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for bicycle license shall be made to the City Police
Department upon a form to be approved by the City Council. The application
shall be accompanied by a fee of $1 for 2 years, to be paid to the city
treasury upon the granting of a license. Upon the receipt of the application in
proper form, a proper license shall be issued to the applicant who shall cause
the same to be attached
to the bicycle in a substantial manner.
      (2)   Removal of any license, except by proper authority, shall be a
violation of this division (B).
      (3)   Bicycle licenses herein provided for shall expire on April 30 of
the year for which the same were purchased.
(Am. Ord. 166, passed 3-4-1967)
   (C)   Conditions of license. Every license issued hereunder shall be deemed
to be granted subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other
public highway of the city with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper,
but every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and other persons upon the sidewalks, streets, and other public
highways of the city.
      (3)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
      (4)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any sidewalk, street, or other
public highway of the city between 30 minutes after sunset and 30 minutes
before sunrise, without a headlight visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from the front thereof for not less than 300 feet indicating the approach or
presence of the bicycle, firmly attached to the bicycle and properly lighted,
or without a yellow or red light or reflector attached to and visible from 200
feet from the rear thereof. The headlight shall give a clear white light.
      (5)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway in the city abreast of any other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
      (6)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or
other public highway in the city shall observe all traffic rules and
regulations applicable thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal
for all turns, ride at the right-hand side of the sidewalk, street, or highway,
pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles and individuals that are
slower moving and shall pass vehicles to the right when meeting.
   (D)   Defacing license number; taking bicycle without permission. No person
shall deface, mutilate, or remove a license tag placed upon any bicycle, nor
shall any person take any bicycle for the purpose of riding or propelling the
same upon the street or other public highway without the consent of the owner.
   (E)   Violations. In case of violation of any provision of division (C)
above, the court may in lieu or in addition to the penalty provided herein,
suspend the license of any person granted hereunder for a period of not more
than 30 days.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force from
and after 3-1-1941.
(Ord. 126, passed 10-1-1940)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 186, passed 4-19-1977)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.04 PARKING; EMERGENCY WEATHER CONDITIONS AND SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Application. The driver, operator, or owner of any motor vehicle or
vehicle within the city limits of the City of Wells shall conform to and
observe the regulations set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMERGENCY WEATHER CONDITION. A condition created on public rights-of-way
because of the presence of snowfall in excess of 2 inches, freezing rain,
sleet, or other natural phenomenon which create or are likely to create
hazardous road conditions, and impede the free movement of fire, health,
police, emergency, or vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Declaration of emergency weather condition. The Street Commissioner,
or his or her designee, is granted the authority to declare emergency weather
conditions. The announcement shall be made over local radio, press, or
television. The announcement shall state the time period during which the
conditions shall exist. The time period may be extended through a second
announcement
   (D)   Emergency weather parking regulations. During emergency weather
conditions it is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle on any public
street, avenue, or alley until the roadway has been fully and completely (curb-
to-curb) cleaned. These parking regulations shall not apply to operators of
wreckers or authorized emergency vehicles while actually serving mechanical,
fire, medical, or police emergencies.
   (E)   Removing and impounding vehicles. Any vehicle which is left parked or
standing on a public street during an emergency weather condition and in
violation of this section is hereby declared a nuisance and shall be subject to
a $25 fine or an amount as affixed by the City Council from time to time. The
fine imposed on a vehicle pursuant to this section shall not prevent or
preclude the institution and prosecution of proceedings for violation of this
section against the vehicle owner.
   (F)   Public notice. Notice of the emergency weather parking provisions
shall be published in the official paper prior to November 1, every year.
Notice shall also be posted at City Hall at the time of publication.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-18-1988; Am. Ord. 223, passed 10-18-1993)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.05 PARKING CERTAIN SEMI-TRAILERS OR TRACTORS ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLEYWAY. A private or public passage or way located in a municipality
and which:
         (a)   Is less than the usual width of a street;
         (b)   May be open to but is not designed primarily for general
vehicular traffic;
         (c)   Intersects or opens to a street; and
         (d)   Is primarily used for the ingress and egress or other
convenience of 2 or more owners of abutting real properties.
      RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on the highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main, improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
      SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a truck-tractor that a considerable part of its own weight or
that of its load rests upon and is carried by the truck-tractor and includes a
trailer drawn by a truck-tractor semi-trailer combination.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of
right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Means:
         (a)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of
the vehicle and load drawn; and
         (b)   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles used exclusively for transporting motor vehicles or boats and capable
of carrying motor vehicles or boats on its own structure.
   (B)   Unlawful parking.
      (1)   It is unlawful to park a semi-trailer, whether or not attached to a
truck-tractor, on any street, highway, or alleyway within or abutting a
residential district within the City of Wells.
      (2)   It is unlawful to park a truck-tractor on any street, highway, or
alleyway within or abutting a residential district within the City of Wells.
(Ord. 232, passed 7-13-1998)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.06 HORSE RACING, RIDING.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person or persons to race horses or
immoderately ride or drive in or upon the public streets of the City of Wells
at a greater speed than 6 mph.
(Ord. 8, passed 6-30-1885)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All terms, words, or phrases, if not defined in division (B) below,
shall have the meaning given to them by Minnesota Statutes.
   (B)   For the purpose of §§ 70.20 et seq., the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A.T.V. A motorized floatation-tired vehicle of not less than 3 low
pressure tires, but not more than 6 tires, that is limited in engine
displacement and total dry weight less than 800 pounds.
      OPERATE To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle.
      OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 70.21 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined that it is in the best interests of the City of
Wells and its residents thereof that an ordinance be passed regulating the use
and operation of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles (A.T.V.s) within the
corporate limits of the City of Wells.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 70.22 OPERATION ON LAWNS, SIDEWALKS, BOULEVARDS PROHIBITED.
   No snowmobile(s) or A.T.V.s shall be operated on any lawns, sidewalks, or
boulevards within the city limits of Wells.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.23 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   No person under 14 years of age in the case of a snowmobile, or under 12
years of age in the case of an A.T.V., shall operate on streets or the roadway
surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-aid,
county highway, or city street as the operator of a snowmobile or A.T.V. A
person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a
snowmobile on streets and highways as permitted under this section and make a
direct crossing of the streets and highways only if he or she has in his or her
immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the
Commissioner as provided by M.S. § 84.872, as it may be amended from time to
time. A person 12 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may
make a direct crossing of streets and highways as provided herein only if he or
she has in his or her immediate possession a valid A.T.V. safety certificate
issued by the Commissioner as provided by M.S. § 84.9256, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.24 SPEED LIMITS.
   No snowmobile(s) or A.T.V.(s) shall be operated on any street or alley at a
speed in excess of 15 mph.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.25 OPERATION IN CITY PARKS.
   No snowmobile(s) shall be operated in either park at a speed in excess of 40
mph. A.T.V.s are not allowed in city parks.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.26 STOP REQUIREMENTS.
   All snowmobile(s) and A.T.V.(s) shall stop at every intersection before
proceeding therein.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.27 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No snowmobile(s) or A.T.V.s shall be operated within the city limits between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless to and from operators’ residence.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.28 MUST OPERATE IN SINGLE FILE.
   All snowmobile(s) and A.T.V.(s) shall be operated on any streets and alleys
in single file at all times.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.29 TOWING ANOTHER CONVEYANCE.
   No snowmobile(s) or A.T.V.(s) shall tow another conveyance unless it is
attached with a rigid hitch and equipped with reflectors.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.30 OPERATION PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No snowmobile(s) or A.T.V.(s) may be operated on the following streets,
avenues, or alleys:
   (A)   2nd Avenue SW (Hwy 22) from 10th Street SE north to Franklin Street;
   (B)   2nd Avenue NW (Hwy 22) from Franklin Street north to north city
limits;
   (C)   1st Street NW (Hwy 109W) from 2nd Avenue NW west to city limits;
   (D)   3rd Street NW/NE (Hwy 109E) from 2nd Avenue NW east to 3rd Street SE;
   (E)   1st Avenue SW from 31d Street SW north to Franklin Street;
   (F)   South Broadway from 3rd Street SW north to Franklin Street;
   (G)   1st Avenue SE from 3rd Street SE north to 1st Street SE;
   (H)   Alley between 1st Avenue SW and 2nd Avenue SW from 3rd Street SW north
to Franklin Street;
   (I)   Alley between South Broadway and 1st Avenue SW from 3rd Street SW
north to Franklin Street;
   (J)   Alley between South Broadway and 1st Avenue SE from 3rd Street SE
north to 1st Street SE;
   (K)   Area around the hockey and ice rink;
   (L)   St. Casimir Cemetery;
   (M)   Rosehill Cemetery;
   (N)   Wells lift station on 1st Street NW;
   (O)   3rd Street SE from South Broadway east to Hwy 109;
   (P)   3rd Street SW from South Broadway west to 3rd Avenue SW;
   (Q)   3rd Avenue SW (1-way) from 3rd Street SW south to 5th Street SW;
   (R)   3rd Avenue SW from lst Street SW south to school; and
   (S)   U.S.C. High School except for designated snowmobile parking area
assigned by school officials.
(Ord. 229A-1, passed 8-11-2003)
Penalty, see § 10.99
GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.45 CARELESS DRIVING.
   No person shall operate or halt any vehicle upon a street or highway within
the City of Wells, Minnesota, carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the
rights or safety of others or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.46 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person driving a vehicle within the City of Wells, Minnesota, shall
drive the same at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
In every event, speed shall be so restricted as may be necessary in order to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering
the highway in compliance with legal reasons to use due care. No persons shall
drive a vehicle at a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation
or in compliance with law.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven thereon at it speed in excess of 30 mph on
any street on which a different speed has not been established by the
Commissioner of Highways under M.S. § 169.14, as it may be amended from time to
time. On any street where a different speed zone has been so established, and
signs have been posted calling attention to the zone, no vehicle shall be
driven in the city at a speed greater than that indicated on the signs.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.47 OPERATING AND TURNING VEHICLES.
   Upon all highways within the City of Wells, Minnesota, of sufficient width,
except upon 1-way streets, or except upon those with 3 traffic lanes
established and plainly marked thereon, the driver of a vehicle shall drive the
same upon the right half of the roadway and shall drive a slow moving vehicle
as closely as possible to the right-hand edge or the curb of the highway,
unless it is impractical to travel on the side of the highway and except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle. No person shall stop or turn a vehicle
or change from 1 traffic lane to another unless the same can be done with
safety and without interfering with the normal flow of pedestrian and vehicle
traffic, and if any other vehicle may be affected, the intention to make the
stop, change of position, or turn shall be indicated by the driver by extending
his or her left arm from and beyond the left side of the vehicle in the manner
specified by law or by using an approved and efficient device to give the
warning and by giving an audible warning by sounding the horn if necessary to
warn pedestrians.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.48 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Angle parking shall be required on the following streets in the City
of Wells: on the east and west sides of Broadway between Second Street South
and Franklin; on First Avenue West between Second Street and Roosevelt Avenue;
on the north side of Second Street between Second Avenue SW and First Avenue SE
and on the south side of Second Street SE between Broadway and First Avenue SE;
on First Street between First Avenue West and First Avenue East; on Franklin
Avenue between First Avenue NW and Broadway and on the north side of Franklin
Avenue between Second Avenue NW and First Avenue NW. On any street, every
vehicle parked shall be parked with the front of the vehicle facing the curb or
the edge of the traveled portion of the street at an angle of approximately 45
degrees and facing between the painted or other markings on the curb or street
indicating the parking space. Every vehicle when parked shall be parked in a
single space marked for vehicle parking by painted lines on the street or curb,
and no part of the vehicle shall extend into any other marked space. On all
other streets other than those named, parallel parking shall be required. On
any street with a curb, every vehicle parked shall be parked parallel to the
curb and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the
curb. On any street without a curb, every vehicle parked shall be parked to the
right of the main traveled portion thereof and parallel thereto and a manner as
not to interfere with the free flow of traffic. The forgoing requirements shall
not apply, however, to any vehicle disabled upon any street, but any police
officer of the city may require the person in charge thereof to move it to a
place of safety; and if the movement is not made or if any motor vehicle is
left alone or abandoned in any position, the officer may provide for the
removal of the vehicle to the nearest convenient garage or other place of safe
keeping at the owner's expense.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places unless
signs or markings on the street or curb indicating that it is permissible:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 10 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach of any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stop or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (11)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway, except
as otherwise provided by ordinance; and/or
      (12)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.49 SPECIAL REGULATIONS IN CONGESTED DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   The congested district shall be included within the following
boundaries. All the areas bounded by the following streets shall be considered
the congested areas and this section shall apply to the area. The area bounded
on the west by the side of Second Avenue between the east side of Second Avenue
between Second Street south and Franklin. The area shall be bounded on the
north by the north side of Franklin Avenue between the east side of Second
Avenue west and each side of Broadway and shall be bounded on the east by the
east side of Broadway between the north side of Franklin Avenue and First
Street, at which point the boundary shall run east on the north side of First
Street SE to the west side of First Avenue SE. From whence it shall run south
to the south side of Second Street SE and thence west along the south side of
Second Street south to the east side of Second Avenue SW.
      (2)   The City Council may establish by resolution no truck parking zones
in the congested district and shall mark by appropriate signs any zones so
established. The zones shall be established in the congested district where
heavy traffic by commercial vehicles or other vehicles congestion makes parking
by commercial vehicles a hazard to the safety of vehicles or pedestrians. No
person shall park a commercial vehicle of more than 1-ton capacity between 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any weekday upon any street in any no truck parking zone,
but parking of the vehicle for a period of not more than 30 minutes shall be
permitted in the zones for the purpose of having access to abutting property
when the access cannot conveniently be secured from an alley or from a side
street where truck parking is not so restricted.
      (3)   The City Council by resolution may establish in each block in the
congested districts 1 or more loading zones and shall mark by appropriate signs
any zone so established. The zones shall be located at places most convenient
for the use of the public with regard to traffic conditions in the block. No
person shall, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any weekday, park
any vehicle in any loading zone except for the purpose of receiving or
discharging passengers or freight and then only for a period no longer than is
necessary for the discharge or receipt of passengers or freight.
      (4)   The City Council by resolution may establish both within the
congested district and without the hours of parking therein, the length of time
the vehicles may be parked without being moved, and may impose a penalty
violation of any parking regulations so made by resolution. However, signs
shall be erected which clearly indicate the parking restrictions.
      (5)   No vehicle of any kind whether motorized farm equipment or other
may be parked on any street in the City of Wells which is for sale or is held
by the owner for resale nor shall any vehicle or farm implement dealer so park
any vehicles on a street in the City of Wells for sale or resale purposes
unless he or she has received from the City Council a written permit to do so.
      (6)   The City Council may by resolution at any time make streets wherein
parallel parking is hereby authorized to angle parking or may change angle
parking or may change angle parking to parallel and, if the changes are made,
the markings or signs shall be placed at the street indicating the mode of
parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in the area designated in
division (A) above as congested district for the first 24 hours following a
snow storm in the City of Wells. Any vehicle found parked in this area, which
interfere with the removal of snow and plowing of the streets may be towed away
by the City of Wells, and the towing shall be at the expense of the owner. In
areas in the City of Wells outside of the area designated as a congested
district, any vehicle remaining parked in the city street for more than 24
hours following a snow storm without being moved shall be towed away and the
cost of the towing shall be assessed against the owner of the vehicle and the
vehicle shall not be released to the owner until the towing charges have been
paid. After any snow storm in the City of Wells, the Street Commissioner or the
city police may place signs reading “No Parking, Snow Removal” and designating
the time on the streets and when the signs are erected on the streets, no
parking shall be permitted in that area. Any vehicles remaining after the signs
have been in place for more than 2 hours may be towed away by the City of Wells
at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.50 DUTIES OF DRIVERS AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by
any person shall stop and give his or her name, address, and the registration
number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request and if
available exhibit his or her driver's license or chauffeur's license to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with. He or she shall render reasonable assistance to any person
injured in the accident.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with and damages any
unattended vehicle shall immediately stop and shall then and there either
locate and notify the driver or owner of the vehicle of the name and address of
the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, shall
report the same to a police officer, or shall leave in a conspicuous place in
the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name and address of the driver
and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person shall, after compliance with the provisions of the state
law and division (A) above, give notice of the accident by the quickest means
of communication to the Police Department.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $50 or
more shall promptly forward a written report of the accident to the Police
Department and the Commissioner of Highways. The report shall be on the
appropriate form approved by the Commissioner of Highways.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.51 DRIVER'S LICENSE; VEHICLE OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate a vehicle upon any street in the city
without having in his or her possession, as required by the laws of the State
of Minnesota, a valid driver's license or chauffeur's license.
   (B)   No persons shall drive a motor vehicle belonging to another without
the owner's consent.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.52 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle on any street
within the city unless the motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to use a muffler cut out on any motor vehicle
upon any street.
   (B)   (1)   No vehicle shall be used upon any street in the city without
lighting equipment, a windshield wiper, a rear vision mirror, a horn or other
warning device, front and rear bumpers, and brakes as required by the State
Highway Traffic Regulation Act.
      (2)   Lamps shall be lighted at all times when any vehicle is operated
upon the streets of the city from a half hour after sunset to a half hour
before sunrise and at any other time when there is not sufficient light to
render persons and vehicles clearly discernable, 500 feet ahead upon the
street.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.53 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The speed limitation of §§ 70.45 et seq. shall not apply to vehicles
when operated with due regard for safety under the direction of peace officers
in the chase or apprehension of violators of the law or persons charged with or
suspected of any violation, or to fire departments or fire patrol vehicles when
traveling in response to a fire alarm, or to public ambulances in emergency use
or service.
   (B)   (1)   When a fire alarm shall be sounded or when the warning device of
any emergency vehicle shall be sounded, all vehicles upon the streets of the
city shall draw to the right side of the street and permit the vehicle to pass.
No vehicle of any kind shall precede fire apparatus to a fire using the same
street that it is using. No vehicle shall follow fire apparatus closer than 500
feet or be parked within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
      (2)   This division (B) does not apply to volunteer firefighters going to
a fire in their own or others private vehicles.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.54 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR NARCOTICS.
   No person who is under the influence of narcotics or liquors shall drive or
operate a vehicle on any street within the city and no person shall consume
liquor while an occupant of a vehicle upon any street in the city.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.55 PEDESTRIANS.
   Pedestrians shall move when practicable upon the right half of crosswalks.
Pedestrians shall cross streets in accordance with signals at controlled
intersections. When traffic at intersections is not controlled, motor vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway way upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when
the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway
as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other
place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close
that it is impossible for the driver to yield. No vehicle shall pass another
vehicle that has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at an intersection for a
pedestrian to pass. At any point other than a crosswalk, pedestrians shall
yield the right-of-way to motor vehicles. This shall not relieve the driver of
any motor vehicle of the obligation to use due care. No person shall stand in
the roadway for the purpose of soliciting rides. Pedestrians walking upon a
roadway shall walk near the left side of the roadway, giving way to oncoming
traffic.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.56 GLASS AND OTHER INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES ON HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall throw or deposit glass, metal, garbage, tin cans, or any
other similar substances upon any highway, and anyone who drops or throws, or
permits to be dropped or thrown, any destructive or injurious substances shall
immediately cause the same to be removed. Any wrecked or damaged vehicle on a
street shall be removed therefrom without unreasonable delay, and pending
removal shall be guarded during the period when lights are required on vehicles
with proper lights, equal in intensity to ordinary parking lights, or by red
flares; and when removed, no glass or injurious substances shall be left upon
the street or roadway by the person removing the vehicle.
(Ord. 154, passed 3-21-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.70 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the city code, the words and terms defined in
M.S. Ch. 169 shall be applicable to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
§ 70.71 DRIVING, OPERATING OR CONTROL OF MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS.
   A motorized golf cart may be driven, operated or controlled on the roadways
or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the City of Wells (not those
under the jurisdiction of Faribault County or the State of Minnesota), except
such roadways prohibited by resolution of the City Council and only in strict
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
§ 70.72 PERMITS.
   No motorized golf cart shall be driven, operated or controlled on the
roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city unless the
driver, operator or person in control has in his or her actual physical
possession a valid, current and unrevoked permit of the City of Wells for such
driving, operation or control of a motorized golf cart.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.73 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Permits shall be issued by the Chief of Police, or authorized designee, upon
compliance with this subchapter.
   (A)   Individual permit. Permits may be issued under one of three methods.
      (1)   Permits may be issued to persons who are licensed to drive motor
vehicles as defined by M.S. Ch. 169. Applicants will need to submit proof of
their driver’s license; the date of application; applicant’s signature; the
name of applicant’s insurance company that covers such vehicle; the applicant’s
insurance policy number and the date of the expiration of insurance coverage.
      (2)   Permits may be issued to persons who are not licensed to drive
motor vehicles as defined by M.S. Ch. 169, but are a minimum of 18 years of age
with applicant submitting proof of residency and permanent address; full name;
age; the date of application; applicant’s signature; the name of applicant’s
insurance company that covers such vehicle; the applicant’s insurance policy
number and the date of the expiration of insurance coverage.
      (3)   Permits may be issued to persons who are licensed to drive motor
vehicles and are between 16 and 18 years of age with an authorized designee
submitting for the minor: proof of residency and permanent address; full name;
age; the date of application; designee’s signature; the name of designee’s
insurance company that covers such vehicle; the designee’s insurance policy
number and the date of the expiration of insurance coverage.
   (B)   Liability. The operation of golf carts under this subchapter shall be
totally the risk and responsibility of the operator. The city, by passing this
subchapter of permission and designation under state law, assumes no
responsibility for the operation of the golf carts and shall be held harmless
in any action arising from the operation of golf carts on or off any public way
within the city.
   (C)   Revocation of permit. An individual permit may be revoked by the Chief
of Police if there is any material misrepresentation made in the permit
application, liability insurance is no longer in effect, or there is evidence
that the permittee cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart. The Chief of
Police shall issue a notice of revocation of a permit in writing and either
hand deliver the notice to the permit holder or send the notice by certified
mail to the address on the application. The revocation shall be in effect
immediately after personal service or three days after the mailing.
   (D)   Permit expiration.  Permits shall be issued fo the calendar year. Any
permit issued during the year will expire on December 31 with no credit for
partial year.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009; Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 70.74 FEES.
   An annual permit fee shall be established from time to time by adoption in
the fee schedule of the city by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
§ 70.75 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No motorized golf cart shall be driven, operated or controlled on the
roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the City of Wells:
   (A)   Between sunset and sunrise;
   (B)   In inclement weather, when visibility is reduced or impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light clearly to see a person or vehicle on a roadway at a
distance of 500 feet;
   (C)   Without prominent display of a slow-moving vehicle emblem provided in
M.S. § 169.522, on the rear of such vehicle;
   (D)   Without a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver, operator or
controller, a view of the roadway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the
rear of such vehicle;
   (E)   Without liability insurance coverage;
   (F)   Contrary to any traffic law of the City of Wells or the State of
Minnesota, except those which cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf
carts, or are not applied, by reason of M.S. § 169.045, subd. 7;
   (G)   Contrary to any provisions of the city code; or
   (H)   Without a current valid individual permit.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
70.70 through
70.75 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2009)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle exceeding in length 16
feet upon Broadway between Franklin Street and Van Buren Street, or upon Market
Street between Lincoln Avenue and Jackson Avenue, or upon Franklin Street
between Broadway and Lincoln Avenue; provided, however, that motor busses may
be stopped temporarily on the streets for the purpose of receiving or
discharging passengers, and motor trucks may be stopped temporarily for the
purpose of loading or unloading merchandise but only for the period of time as
is actually required for the loading or unloading of the merchandise.
(Ord. 105, passed 8-4-1936)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   RENTAL HOUSING
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
95.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC RECREATIONAL AREAS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Non-domestic and/or farm animals
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   License required
   
90.16   Control; cleanup
   
90.17   Running at large prohibited
   
90.18   Cats; generally
   
90.19   Basic care
   
90.20   Impoundment, redemption, and unclaimed animals
   
90.21   Interfering with enforcement
   
90.22   Bites
   
90.23   Prohibited acts
   
90.24   Dangerous/potentially dangerous animals
   
90.25   Diseased animals
   
90.26   Kennels
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, the animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys,) fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese potbellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stables.
   KENNEL. The keeping of 3 or more dogs or cats on the same premises, whether
owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose kept, shall constitute
a KENNEL except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept for a period of 3
months before the keeping shall be deemed to be a KENNEL.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be naturally wild
and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly considered to
be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people. Unless
otherwise defined, these animals shall include:
      (1)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards, and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
      (2)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
      (3)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
      (4)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not de-scented), raccoon, squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
      (5)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles, and alligators; and
      (6)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which can
be reasonably defined by the terms in the section, including but not limited to
bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Police Department for the release of
any animal that has been taken to the pound. A RELEASE PERMIT may be obtained
upon payment of a fee in accordance with that regular license requirement and
payment of a release fee and any maintenance costs incurred. The release fee
shall be $25 the first time an animal is impounded, $50 the second time it is
impounded, and $75 for the third and each subsequent time the same animal is
impounded. For the purpose of a RELEASE PERMIT, any change in the registered
ownership of an animal subsequent to its impoundment and release shall reset
that animal’s impoundment count to the beginning of the fee scale.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.02 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS AND/OR FARM ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal or farm animal within the city. Any owner of an
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this chapter. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All cats and dogs over the age of 3 months kept, harbored, or
maintained by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with
the city. Dog and cat licenses shall be issued by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer upon payment of the license fee. The license shall be valid for 1
year. The owner shall state, at the time application is made for the license
and upon forms provided for the purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog and or cat owned or kept by him or her.
Applicants for shall provide proof of anti-rabies vaccination of the dog or cat
to be registered as no license shall be granted for a dog and or cat which has
not been vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as provided in this section.
Vaccination shall be performed only by a doctor qualified to practice
veterinary medicine in the state in which the dog is vaccinated. A veterinarian
who vaccinates a dog to be licensed in the city shall complete a certificate of
vaccination. One copy shall be issued to the dog and or cat owner for affixing
to the license application.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog and or cat subject to this
section to pay to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer the license fee as
imposed by the Council by resolution.
   (C)   Upon payment of the license fee, the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag for
each animal licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it is
issued and the number corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every
owner shall be required to provide each dog or cat with a collar to which the
license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collars and tag are
constantly worn. In case a tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be
issued by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. A charge of $3 shall be made
for each duplicate tag. Tags shall not be transferable from one dog or cat to
another and no refunds shall be made on any dog or cat license fee or tag
because of death of a dog or cat or the owner’s leaving the city before the
expiration of the license period.
   (D)   The licensing provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs or
cats whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs or
cats brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog or cat
show, nor shall this provision apply to seeing eye dogs properly trained to
assist blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to
place.
   (E)   The funds received by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer from all
dog and cat licenses and metallic tag fees shall first be used to defray any
costs incidental to the enforcement of this section; including, but not
restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs and cats.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.16 CONTROL; CLEANUP.
   Any dog or cat inside the city shall be on a leash or under the immediate
control of the owner or handler at all times. Any debris or manure off of the
owner’s or caretaker’s property shall be cleaned up and discarded by owner or
handler before leaving the site.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.17 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or
cat, or the parents or the guardians of any person under 18 years of age, to
allow the dog or cat to run at large. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied
by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction
of a responsible person so as to be effectively restrained by command as by
leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has
posted an area with signs reading dogs or cats prohibited.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.18 CATS; GENERALLY.
   Cats shall be included as controlled by this chapter insofar as running at
large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing, and proof of anti-rabies
vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this chapter shall also apply to
cats unless otherwise provided.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.19 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers a kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in such a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.20 IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION, AND UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat may be picked and impounded by any police officer or
city-authorized dog catcher of the city, when an owner does not restrain or
keep the dog or cat in accordance with this chapter or any other applicable
ordinance of the city and, to enforce this chapter, police officers and dog
catchers may enter upon private premises to pick up a dog or cat. The officer
may use either a dog snare or a tranquilizer gun to safely and effectively
capture the animal, or by any other means necessary in order to capture the
animal without causing harm to it.
   (B)   Upon taking and impounding a dog or cat, the enforcing officer shall
notify the owner thereof if known. Any dog or cat can be redeemed from the
pound by the owner within the 5-business day period by the payment of a license
fee, (if not licensed) and certification of vaccination for rabies and
distemper shots. And also a fee of $5 per day of impoundment and all other fees
incurred by the impoundment of each animal.
   (C)   At the expiration of the 5 regular business days for the time any
animal is impounded, if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with
the provisions of this section, the city may let any person claim the animal by
complying with all provisions in this section, or the city may sell the animal
to the University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any monies collected under this
section shall be payable to the City Treasury.
   (D)   Pursuant to state law, an owner of any animal sold or placed for
adoption by the city has 2 years from the date of the sale or adoption to
redeem ownership of his or her animal. In order to redeem, the owner must pay
the adopter or buyer of the animal the cost paid to the city as well as a
reasonable sum for the boarding of the animal until the date of redemption.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.21 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or attempt to take from any
police officer, or dog catcher or poundmaster, or the pound, any dog or cat
taken in by him or her in enforcement of this chapter or any manner to
interfere or hinder the enforcement against in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-15-2013)
§ 90.22 BITES.
   Upon learning that a dog or cat has bitten a human, the police officer shall
order the dog or cat impounded at the city pound for a period of 14 days at the
expense of the owner. If at the end of 14 days the animal is deemed healthy and
free from symptoms of rabies, and by payment of any costs incurred by the city
in the caring of the animal the animal may be released to its owners. If the
biting animal has been inoculated for rabies and the owner has proof of the
vaccination by a certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may
confine the dog or other animal to the owner’s property.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.23 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall keep or harbor a dog:
   (A)   That barks or cries continuously for 5 minutes or more without any
pauses or interruptions longer than 1 minute in duration; such barking must
also be audible off the owner’s or caretaker’s property;
   (B)   That at any time has attacked or bitten a person outside the owner’s
premise;
   (C)   That at any time has destroyed property or habitually trespassed in a
damaging manner on property of person other than owner; and/or
   (D)   That is dangerous or shows vicious habits, or molests pedestrians, or
interferes with the driving of automobiles on a public street, highway, or
alley.
   (E)   Any animals kept contrary to this section are hereby declared a public
nuisance and may be abated according to the law.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.24 DANGEROUS/POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No dangerous dog shall be kept by a person within the city unless the
owner has complied with all conditions of and said dog has been properly
registered and received a certificate of registration pursuant to M.S. §§
347.51 and 347.515 as amended. The fee for a certificate of registration shall
be as set forth by City Council by resolution.
   (B)   No person shall keep a potentially dangerous dog within city limits
that is not registered with the city and for which a certificate of
registration has not been issued. If an owner of a dog has been notified by the
city that it has been determined that said owner’s dog has been found to be a
potentially dangerous dog, said owner must obtain a certificate of registration
from the city within 14 days after showing that the owner has satisfactorily
met the conditions of M.S. §§ 347.51 and 347.515, as amended. A fee shall be
imposed for said certificate.
   (C)   (1)   If, in the reasonable belief of any person by way of a citizen
complaint or police officer an animal presents an immediate danger to the
health and safety of any person, the officer may apprehend the animal and
deliver it to the pound for confinement; or
      (2)   Upon receipt of a citizen complaint and/or report from a city
official, the City Administrator shall conduct an investigation and make a
determination as to whether or not the dog complained of is a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog. Notice of this determination, after investigation
shall be given to the owner of said dog and said dog shall be seized until a
proper certificate of registration is obtained by the owner.
   (D)   The city may impound any dangerous or potentially dangerous dog if
said dog is outside its enclosure and not under physical restraint of a
responsible person, or is enclosed in an improper or poorly maintained
enclosure.
   (E)   In such a case, the owner or keeper of the animal shall be liable for
the cost of maintenance provided, and if the animal is destroyed, a charge
periodically set by the Council to dispose of the animal. If the animal is
found not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be
released to the owner or keeper in accordance with this section. The animal may
be released to other persons in accordance with this section.
   (F)   An animal may be declared as unable to be released if the City
Administrator finds that an animal apprehended under this section cannot be
safely released into the community because it poses a threat to the health and
safety of the city. In such a case, the City Administrator may order that
animal destroyed in a painless manner.
      (1)   Prior to euthanizing the animal, notice shall be provided to the
animal’s owner by first class mail, postage prepaid, that a determination was
made that the animal presents a threat to the health and safety of the city and
that it will be destroyed unless the owner objects in writing to the animal’s
destruction within 10 days from the date of the notice and requests review of
the City Administrator’s decision by the animal forfeiture panel. The notice
shall state the address where the animal owner must mail his or her objection.
If the owner does not request review of the City Administrator’s decision, the
animal shall be destroyed in accordance with the notice provided to the
animal’s owner and the costs of euthanizing the animal and its disposal shall
be assessed against the owner. Any person may waive their right to appeal in
writing, and if the city receives a waiver, it may immediately destroy the
animal.
      (2)   If an appeal is requested pursuant to division (C) of this section,
a committee made up of the Mayor, and one other member of the City Council and
citizen appointed by the Mayor for purposes of sitting on the panel shall
schedule a hearing not less than 7 nor more than 21 days after receiving notice
of appeal from the animal owner.
      (3)   At the hearing, the City Administrator shall present his basis for
finding that the animal poses a threat to public safety and any other evidence,
which may include live testimony by witnesses, relevant to the animal’s
disposition. The animal owner shall present any relevant evidence which may
include live testimony by witnesses rebutting the City Administrator’s findings
and demonstrating the animal does not pose a threat to public health and
safety. The parties shall have an opportunity to cross-examine any adverse
witness.
      (4)   If the committee determines after hearing the evidence that the
animal presents a threat to public health and safety, the Committee shall order
the animal destroyed and the costs of euthanizing the animal and disposal
assessed against the animal owner. A finding by the Committee that the animal
is a dangerous dog as defined by M.S. § 347.50 Subd. 2 shall be sufficient to
support a finding that the animal presents a threat to health and safety. If
the Committee determines that the animal does not present a threat to the
health and safety of the city, the animal shall be released to the owner. The
Committee shall issue written findings summarizing the facts relied upon by the
Committee as the basis of their conclusion and stating the decision of the
Committee. A copy of the findings shall be mailed to the animal owner at his/
her last known address.
      (5)   In all cases, an impounded animal’s owner shall pay to the city the
costs of impounding the animal.
      (6)   If an animal owner appeals the City Administrator’s decision to
destroy an animal pursuant to division (D) and the appeal panel concludes that
the animal poses a threat to health and safety and orders it destroyed, the
animal owner shall pay to the city an administrative fee of $75 in addition to
any other costs charged against the animal owner.
   (G)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   Dangerous dog. Any dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner’s property; or
         (c)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   Potentially dangerous dog. Any dog that:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury, or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (3)   Proper enclosures. Proper enclosure means
         (a)   A securely confined enclosure or locked pen or structure
suitable to prevent the animal from escaping; and
         (b)   Providing protection from the elements, not including a porch,
patio, or any part of a house, garage or other structure that would allow the
dog to exit on its own volition.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.25 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or her premises, on
premises occupied by him or her, nor permit to run at large in the city, any
animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the
city, even though the animal may be properly registered under this section.
   (B)   Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and presenting a
threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended and confined
in the pound by any person or police officer. A police officer shall have a
qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found to be
diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the
city, a police officer shall cause such animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed
under this section shall be liable for a fine set periodically by the Council
to cover the costs for disposing of the animal, plus the costs of the
veterinarian examinations.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.26 KENNELS.
   (A)   The keeping of 3 to 10 dogs or cats on the same premises, whether
owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose kept, shall constitute
a kennel; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept for a period of 3
months before the keeping shall be deemed a kennel. No more than 10 dogs or
cats on the same premises are allowed.
   (B)   In order to maintain a kennel within the city limits, a resident of
the premises must first obtain a permit from the city and pay an annual permit
fee as set by the Council by resolution. As a condition of maintaining a
kennel, the city is authorized to biannually inspect the premises to monitor
compliance with this chapter and to keep track of the number and condition of
the dogs or cats. None of the dogs in a kennel can be a dangerous dog as
defined under M.S. § 347.50, as it may be amended from time to time. Both
statutes are listed under §
90.23. A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor and the city may remove
enough dogs or cats so that the premises is no longer a kennel. The owner of
the dog(s) removed by the city shall be liable for the costs of the city
removing the dog(s).
   (C)   Three to 5 dogs or cats on one premises shall be $50 yearly and 6 to
10 dogs or cats shall be $150 yearly. All kennel fees are due January 1 of each
year.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor. A second violation by the same
animal shall also be a petty misdemeanor offense. Any violation after the
second conviction involving the same animal may be a misdemeanor at the
discretion of the office of the City Attorney.
(Ord. 90.26, passed 5-13-2013)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets
   
91.01   Address numbering
   
91.02   Notice of defects of streets prior to injury or damage
   
91.03   Excavations
   
91.04   Regulation of load limits
   
91.05   Street grades
Sidewalks
   
91.20   Repair, construction or reconstruction of sidewalks
   
91.21   Clearing sidewalks
STREETS
§ 91.01 ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for proper
identification of buildings within the city to improve the response time of
police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency services within the City of Wells.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURBSIDE MAILBOX. Any mailbox erected at the edge of a roadway or street
to be served by a United States Postal Carrier from a vehicle on any public
road, street, or highway, exclusive of receptacles for newspapers delivered by
private carriers.
   (C)   Identification requirement.
      (1)   All residences and other principal buildings within the city shall
bear the house or address number as assigned by the City of Wells. All numbers
shall be clearly visible from the street or address which serves as its legal
mailing address. Numbers shall be perfectly formed, neat, legible Arabic
numerals, in a contrasting color, and a minimum of 4 inches in height.
      (2)   All curbside mailboxes shall bear the house number as assigned by
the City of Wells. The numbers shall be displayed in a contrasting color in
neat numerals at least 2 inches high on the side of the curbside mailbox and
shall have a light reflective quality to them.
   (D)   Effective Date. All residences and principal buildings within the City
of Wells that are not currently in compliance must conform with this section no
later than 7-1-2003.
(Ord. 248, passed 3-10-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 NOTICE OF DEFECTS OF STREETS PRIOR TO INJURY OR DAMAGE.
   The City of Wells, Minnesota, shall be absolutely exempt from liability to
any person for damages or injuries suffered or sustained by reason of defective
streets within the city unless actual notice in writing of the defects in the
streets shall have been filed with the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer at
least 10 days before the occurrence of the injury or damage on account of the
defects, and in all cases the notice shall describe with particularity the
place and nature of the defects of which complaint is made.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-6-1958; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 91.03 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall make any excavation within any
street or alley in the City of Wells, Faribault County, Minnesota, for the
purpose of installing water, sewer, steam, or gas pipes, electric or telephone
conduits, or for any other purpose, without first obtaining a permit for the
excavation.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made to the City of Wells in writing
on forms provided for that purpose and shall state the exact location of the
excavation, purpose of the excavation, length of time required for the work to
be completed, width and length of excavation, and the other information as may
be required.
   (C)   Permits approved for excavation of any street or alley shall be in
writing and shall be available for inspection by any authorized city official
or police officer.
   (D)   (1)   Before a permit is issued, the applicant requesting the permit
shall pay to the City of Wells a fee in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Surface Type       Per Lineal Foot of Excavation Minimum Fee
Gravel surface     $.50                          $10
Bituminous surface $1                            $20
Concrete surface   $1.75                         $35
 
      (2)   Fees shall be required from the Public Utilities Commission only
for the actual cost of the repair upon completion of the project. In the event
extraordinary conditions necessitate street repairs costing in excess of the
fee collected, the excess cost shall be paid by the persons securing the
permit.
   (E)   Cutting of the street surface shall be made by the person securing the
permit. Removal of the excavated material and replacement of the area disturbed
shall be by the city street maintenance foreperson.
   (F)   Excavations greater than 4 feet in width will not be permitted
generally and may be made only when expressly provided on the permit. Streets
may not be closed to traffic unless authorized by the city police officers or
the city street foreperson. Excavations shall be properly protected and
identified by barricades and flags in the daytime, and by flares and red
lanterns at night. Work shall progress in an expeditious manner until
completion in order to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to traffic.
   (G)   In the event that work shall cease or be abandoned without due cause,
the city may, after 6-hours’ notice of intent to do so, fill the excavation,
repair the street, and assess the entire cost against the person, firm, or
corporation to whom the permit was issued.
   (H)   Emergency excavations to prevent loss or damage to property may be
commenced outside regular business hours without a permit, provided that a
permit shall be obtained at the earliest practicable time.
   (I)   Each permit holder shall indemnify and save harmless the City of Wells
from all damages caused in the execution of the work, all costs in connection
with the repair of the streets and alleys, and each permit holder shall pay any
and all damages that may be suffered by the city or the public by reason of the
failure of the person securing the permit to observe the terms of this chapter
or by reason of negligence in execution of the work.
   (J)   The provisions of this chapter are not in lieu of but in addition to
all utility permits that may be required by ordinance or by rules and
regulations of the Public Utilities Commission and of the City of Wells.
(Ord. 145, passed 8-7-1956) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 REGULATION OF LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The person appointed annually by the Council of the City of Wells
given charge of the streets and thoroughfares in the City of Wells shall be
known as the Street Commissioner and shall, from time to time, as directed by
the Mayor of the City of Wells, post notice setting load limits to be hauled
over and upon the streets and thoroughfares in the city, and shall take the
necessary steps from time to time as may be needed to enforce the restrictions.
   (B)   The notice of restrictions shall be printed in letters large enough to
be read at a reasonable distance by the driver of a motor vehicle and each end
of the street or thoroughfare which is restricted shall have posted at or near
the right-hand portion of the traveled part of the street, the printed notice.
   (C)   The Council may from time to time direct the Mayor to either cause
notice or removal of notice of the restrictions to be had in the absence of a
resolution by the Council either to give or remove notice of road restrictions,
the directing of the Mayor shall be final.
(Ord. 140, passed 6-5-1951)
§ 91.05 STREET GRADES.
   (A)   The street grades of the City of Wells are hereby designated and
established according to the grades and profiles made by C. F. Loweth now on
file and of record in the office of the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer of
the City of Wells.
   (B)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed within the City of Wells shall be
established according to the grades.
(Ord. 44, passed 3-6-1900)
SIDEWALKS
§ 91.20 REPAIR, CONSTRUCTION OR RECONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Inspection by City Street Department. The City Street Department shall
make such inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians. If the city finds
that any sidewalk abutting on private property is unsafe and in need of
repairs, the City Street Department shall physically mark the portion or
portions of sidewalk that need repair and provide a sidewalk repair notice to
the property owner or the occupant if the owner does not reside within the city
or cannot be found therein.
   (B)   City notice.
      (1)   The notice shall advise the owner that it is the owner’s
responsibility to repair the marked portions of sidewalk and shall order the
owner to respond in writing to the City Street Department within 30 days their
intended option for repair of the marked sidewalk portion.
      (2)   If a property owner elects to undertake the sidewalk repair without
city involvement, the repairs must be completed within 60 days of the date
contained in the notice.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that if the owner fails to respond to
the City Street Department within the 30 days or fails to make the needed
repairs within the time given, the City Street Department will repair the
sidewalk portion at the owner’s expense.
      (4)   Finally, the notice shall state that the cost of any sidewalk
repair work performed by the city shall be billed to owner and shall be made a
special assessment against the property benefited thereby if not paid by owner.
   (C)   Owner to repair, construct or reconstruct a sidewalk.
      (1)   The owners of any property within the city abutting a public
sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians. Repairs
shall be made in accordance with the permit requirements of
Ch. 152 and the standard specifications approved by Council resolution and on
file in the office of the City Clerk/Administrator. As deemed necessary by the
city, the City Street Department may inspect sidewalk repairs at the time they
are being constructed. Within 30 days following the completion of sidewalk
repairs, the City Street Department will inspect the work completed, sign in
writing whether construction was completed or not completed in compliance with
standard specifications, and file inspection findings with the City Clerk/
Administrator. If the City Street Department deems completed repairs to
sidewalks as not in compliance with standard specifications the City Street
Department will remove and reconstruct the portion of sidewalk at the owner’s
expense.
      (2)   Any person violating this section shall be issued a petty
misdemeanor (See §
10.99).
      (3)   The administrative civil fine provided in this section is in
addition to cost recovery provisions described in division (E).
   (D)   Permit.
      (1)   No person shall repair, construct or reconstruct sidewalks without
first obtaining a permit from the city to do so. If the owner opts for the city
to repair the sidewalk, no permit is required. The following provisions apply
to the issuance of permits for repair, construct or reconstruct sidewalks:
         (a)   The provisions of this chapter are not in lieu of but in
addition to all utility permits that may be required by ordinance or by rules
and regulations of the Public Utilities Commission and of the city.
         (b)   The application. An application for a permit shall state the
amount of sidewalk to be repaired (sq. ft.), the location, type of work to be
done (repair, construct or reconstruct) and owner’s willingness to comply with
standard specifications. The application shall be filed with the City
Administrator with the correct permit fee as set by resolution of the City
Council.
         (c)   Standard for issuance. Permits shall be issued after the
application has been determined to be in compliance with the city land use and
divisions of chapters of Wells City Code and the sidewalk repair notice issued
by the City Street Department as determined by the City Clerk/Administrator.
      (2)   Permit denial. If the permit is denied the reasons for denial shall
be set forth in writing given to the applicant. The permit fee collected at the
time of application shall be refunded to the applicant and the City Engineer
will move forward with repair of the sidewalk at the expense of the owner.
      (3)   Denial appeal. Any applicant adversely affected by the decision may
appeal to the City Council.
   (E)   City street department to repair, construct or reconstruct sidewalk.
If the property owner fails to respond to the City Street Department within the
30 days or fails to make the needed repairs within the 60 days from the date on
the notice, the City Street Department shall repair the sidewalk and make safe
for pedestrians or order the work done by contract in accordance with law. The
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property shall
be reported to the City Clerk/Administrator.
   (F)   Assessment or certification for cost. On or before October 1 of each
year the City Clerk/Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for
repair or reconstruct of sidewalks against each separate lot or parcel to which
they are attributable under this chapter. The Council may then spread the
charges against property benefited as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101
or certify unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection within the
following year along with current taxes as otherwise provided for by state law
or the charter. When unpaid charges are certified to the Auditor for collection
with taxes, the Council may use the notice, hearing and appeal provisions
provided by M.S. Ch. 429. In any appeal of unpaid charges certified to the
Auditor for collection with taxes, the sole issue to be determined by the court
is the reasonableness of the charges.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 91.21 CLEARING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Responsibilities and penalties.
      (1)   All snow, ice, dirt and rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk more
than 24 hours after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance. The owner and the
occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk is responsible to keep
such walk safe for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant shall allow snow,
ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its
deposit thereon.
      (2)   Any person violating this section shall be issued an administrative
citation under see §
10.99 General Penalty, Fees and Charges.
      (3)   The administrative civil fine provided in this section is in
addition to cost recovery provisions described in division (C).
   (B)   Removal by City Street Department. The City Street Department may
remove from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish beginning 24
hours after any such matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has
ceased to fall. The City Street Department shall keep a record showing the cost
of such removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such
information to the City Clerk/Administrator.
   (C)   Assessment or certification for cost. On or before October 1 of each
year the City Clerk/Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for
clearing of sidewalks against each separate lot or parcel to which they are
attributable under this chapter. The Council may then spread the charges
against property benefited as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101 or
certify unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection within the
following year along with current taxes as otherwise provided for by state law
or the charter. When unpaid charges are certified to the Auditor for collection
with taxes, the Council may use the notice, hearing and appeal provisions
provided by M.S. Ch. 429. In any appeal of unpaid charges certified to the
Auditor for collection with taxes, the sole issue to be determined by the court
is the reasonableness of the charges.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-25-2016)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Assessable current services
   
92.02   Tree diseases
   
92.03   Junked motor vehicles and the like
Nuisances
   
92.15   Public nuisance
   
92.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.19   Duties of city officers
   
92.20   Abatement
   
92.21   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
92.35   Weeds and the like to be cut, removed, and disposed of
   
92.36   Enforcement
   
92.37   Failure to comply
Open Burning
   
92.50   Definitions
   
92.51   Prohibited materials
   
92.52   Permit required for open burning
   
92.53   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
92.54   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
92.55   Permit process for open burning
   
92.56   Permit holder responsibility
   
92.57   Revocation of open burning permit
   
92.58   Denial of open burning permit
   
92.59   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
92.60   Rules and laws adopted by reference
Noise Control
   
92.75   Noises prohibited
   
92.76   Hourly restriction on certain operations
   
92.77   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean 1 or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt, or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other
person designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public
sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24
hours after any matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
to fall. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person
shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot
and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Title V
of this code, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall
report the facts to the City Council and the City Council shall by resolution
order the work done by contract in accordance with law. The City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the total cost of the repair
attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, or other designated
official, shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object, or contrivance upon any street, road, highway, or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle,
equipment, or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving, or
moving any vehicle, equipment, object, or contrivance weighing in excess of the
maximum weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the
owner of the vehicle, equipment, object, or contrivance, but is operating,
driving, or moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then
the owner and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage.
Any person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act
damages any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which
amount shall be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. §514.67, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type
of current service and charges under this section against each separate lot or
parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may
then spread the charges against property benefitted as a special assessment
under the authority of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time
and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood, or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; or
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than 1 week prior to the
meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the street
affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a
record of the costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for
which assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the
land, lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each
abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable
under this section. The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion
thereof against the property involved as a special assessment as authorized by
M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection the following
year along with the current taxes.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Definitions. All terms, words, or phrases shall have the meaning given
to them by Minnesota state statute.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Parking or abandonment of junked vehicles or motor vehicles. No
person shall park, keep, place, store, or abandon any junk vehicle or motor
vehicle or vehicle or motor vehicle not currently registered, on a public
street, alley, or parking lot.
      (2)   Parking and storage of junk vehicles and motor vehicles on private
property. No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, not currently registered
or discarded vehicle or motor vehicle to remain on the property longer than 15
days and no person shall leave any vehicle or motor vehicle on property within
the city for a longer time than 15 days, except that this section shall not
apply with regard to a vehicle or motor vehicle in a fully enclosed building or
authorized junk yard.
   (C)   Written notice by police to correct violations.
      (1)   Upon complaint of the existence of any of the above conditions, the
Wells Police Department may serve a written notice on the owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or other person in charge of the property, demanding that the
condition be rectified within 3 days for garbage that may be or is emitting a
foul or disagreeable odor, and 15 days for all other junk, trash, garbage, junk
vehicles, junk motor vehicles.
      (2)   If the owner or controlling party of private property cannot be
contacted or if the owner refuses to clean up property under their control, the
city may clean or rectify the condition and bill the owner or persons in
control of that property for all costs incurred by the city, including criminal
prosecution of violators.
(Ord. 228, passed 11-19-1996; Am. Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§ 92.16,
92.17, or 92.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for
which no sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license; and
   (L)   Accumulation in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile parts or bodies, logs, tree trunks and branches,
construction materials, unusable toys, other plastics, wood, metals or other
materials in a manner conducive to harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin
or growth of vegetation so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health,
or safety hazards of the accumulation.
(Ord. 228, passed 11-19-1996; Am. Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules, Ch. 7030, as they
may be amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated by reference
into this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile, or any recreational
device except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   (1)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system,
machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly
and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any
person nearby.
      (2)   Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property
line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of
50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section.
   (G)   The participation in a party or gathering of people giving rise to
noise which disturbs the peace, quiet, or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or other property;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic, and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property; and
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.19 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Police Department or Sheriff, if the city has at the time no Police
Department, shall enforce the provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace
officer shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances.
§ 92.20 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place,
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer on the owner of record or occupant of the premises either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer determines that a public nuisance
is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the officer shall
notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the premises of the fact
and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation
shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within
which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of violation is not complied
with within the time specified, the officer shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists
or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of
the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The
officer shall notify in writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the
nature of the nuisance and of the city's intention to seek summary enforcement
and the time and place of the City Council meeting to consider the question of
summary enforcement. The City Council shall determine whether or not the
condition identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance,
whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A)
of this section, and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or
abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.21 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or
other official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list
the total unpaid charges along with all other the charges as well as other
charges for current services to be assessed under M.S § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the
charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against
the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification
to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following
year or in annual installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may
determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
WEEDS
§ 92.35 WEEDS AND THE LIKE TO BE CUT, REMOVED, AND DISPOSED OF.
      (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRASS LAWN. A lawn composed mostly of grasses commonly used in regularly
cut lawns or play areas, including but not limited to bluegrass, fescue, and
ryegrass blends, intended to be maintained at a height of no more than 8
inches.
      MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPE. A planned, intentional, and maintained
planting of native or nonnative grasses, wildflowers, forbs, ferns, shrubs, or
trees, including but not limited to rain gardens, meadow vegetation, and
ornamental plants. MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPES does not include turf-grass lawns
left unattended for the purpose of returning to a natural state.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the State of Minnesota, and that are commonly found
in meadow and prairie plant communities but does not include noxious weeds as
that term is defined by M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8.
      ORNAMENTAL PLANTS. Grasses, perennials, annuals, and groundcovers
purposely planted for aesthetic reasons.
      RAIN GARDEN. A native plant garden that is designed not only to
aesthetically improve properties, but also to reduce the amount of stormwater
and accompanying pollutants from entering streams, lakes, and rivers.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every owner or occupant of real property in the city
shall keep grass, weeds, and brush maintained and be responsible for the
removal and disposal of dead or diseased trees thereon the property, abutting
boulevard, and/or portion of the street reserved for sidewalk abutting the
property. Except as part of a managed natural landscape as defined in this
section, any weeds or grasses growing upon any lot or parcel of land in the
city to a greater height than 8 inches or that have gone to seed or about to go
to seed are prohibited.
   (C)   Managed natural landscapes allowed. With the conditions set forth
herein, the city shall allow an owner, authorized agent, or authorized occupant
of any privately owned lands or premises to install and maintain a managed
natural landscape, as defined in this section, which may include certain plants
and grasses in excess of 8 inches in height and which may have gone to seed but
which shall not include any noxious weeds. The managed natural landscape must
be at least 5 feet from the property line and must not be located in a city
right-of-way or city-owned or controlled easement. The managed natural
landscape must be identified as a managed natural landscape by a sign posted on
the property in a location likely to be seen by the public. This sign is
required only if the managed natural landscape is in an area likely to be seen
by the public. This sign must be in addition to any sign permitted by the sign
ordinance but must be no smaller than 10 square inches, no larger than 1 square
foot, and no higher than 3 feet tall.
   (D)   Violations. Violation of this section are subject to proper
enforcement of §§ 92.35 et seq. as well as other applicable statute, laws or
code provisions, including representing public nuisances subject to abatement
under this section. Violations include, but may not be limited to, allowing: i.
noxious weeds; ii. vegetation that does not meet the maintenance standard
specified in division (B) above; and iii. managed natural landscaped areas that
do not comply with division (C) above.
(Ord. 235, passed 8-9-1999; Am. Ord. 23-05, passed 10-10-2023)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.36 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Weed Inspector, Street Supervisor, and City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer, and each of them, are hereby authorized and empowered to perform the
duties required hereunder for the proper enforcement of §§ 92.35 et seq.
(Ord. 235, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 92.37 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If any owner or occupant fails to comply with the provisions of the above
sections, the City Weed Inspector shall serve written notice of the fact upon
the owner or occupant, or any agent or person having the care or control of the
lot or land. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects, or
refuses to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed, the weeds, grass,
brush, other vegetation, dead/diseased trees within a specified time after
receipt of the notice, the Weed Inspector shall cause the items on the lot or
land to be cut and removed. The cost of cutting and removal plus other
additional costs in connection therewith shall be billed to the owner of the
property. Delinquent bills shall then be certified by the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer to the County Auditor, who in turn shall assess the costs above
mentioned against the premises and the same shall be collected and enforced in
the same manner as the collection of real estate taxes.
(Ord. 235, passed 8-9-1999)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct,
or chimney, except a recreational fire as defined herein. Mobile cooking
devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and
propane or natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than 3 feet
in height, contained within the border of a recreational fire site using dry,
clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor, or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health, or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than 1 recreational fire is allowed on any
property at 1 time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a 3-foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile, or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard, or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, presto logs,
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into 3-foot lengths.
§ 92.51 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted, or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheetrock, wiring, paint, or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation,
serving, or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of any leaves
or grass clippings, except for between the dates of October 1 and December 1 of
each calendar year.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 2-28-2022)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.52 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §92.50.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.53 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading, or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives; and/or
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber, and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal, or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.54 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (D.N.R.) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.55 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions, and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 92.56 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   (1)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the
permit holder or his or her representative leaves the site.
      (2)   No fire may be allowed to smolder with no person present.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the permit holder to have a valid
permit, as required by this subchapter, available for inspection on the site by
the Police Department, Fire Department, M.P.C.A. representative, or D.N.R.
forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.57 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of D.N.R.
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.58 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 92.59 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or D.N.R.
has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the M.P.C.A. has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.60 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, Minn. Rules, Ch. 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
NOISE CONTROL
§ 92.75 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made, any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
the following subdivisions.
   (B)   Horns, audible signaling devices, and the like. No person shall sound
any audible signaling device on any vehicle except as a warning of danger, as
required by M.S. § 169.68, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge
of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine,
motor boat, motor vehicle, or snowmobile except through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations. The use of engine
retarder brakes is prohibited within the city limits, except in an emergency.
The city shall erect VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED signs at the locations as they
deem appropriate and shall request erection of similar signs by the MN Dept. of
Transportation upon state highways entering the City of Wells.
   (D)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noises.
   (E)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person shall use
or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine, or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or other device in a
manner as to be plainly audible from a vehicle, at the property line of a
structure or building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment
adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a
structure or building, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (F)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings.
      (1)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of
people giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or
repose of another person.
      (2)   When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately.
      (3)   No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so.
      (4)   Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of the
disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is
stopped.
   (G)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall create any
excessive noise on a street, alley, or public grounds adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, church, hospital, nursing home or home for the elderly
when the noise unreasonably interferes with the work within the institution or
disturbs or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs
indicate the presence of the institution.
(Ord. 238, passed 10-9-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.76 HOURLY RESTRICTION ON CERTAIN OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn mower,
power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or other
similar domestic power maintenance equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
   (B)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 238, passed 10-9-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.77 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of §§ 92.75 et seq., may
inspect private premises other than private residences, and shall make all
reasonable efforts to prevent violations of §§ 92.75 et seq.
(Ord. 238, passed 10-9-2000)
CHAPTER 93: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Legislative finding
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   License required
   
93.04   License and fees
   
93.05   License expiration
   
93.06   Inspection
   
93.07   Space and occupancy standards
   
93.08   Occupancy standards
   
93.09   Register of occupancy
   
93.10   Agent required
   
93.11   Transfer of license
   
93.12   Conduct on licensed premises
§ 93.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDING.
   It is hereby found that there exists in the City of Wells structures used
for human habitation which are not owner occupied and are now, or may become in
the future, substandard with respect to structure, equipment, or maintenance,
and further that the conditions, together with inadequate provisions for light
and air, insufficient protection against fire hazards, lack of proper heating
unsanitary conditions, and overcrowding, constitute a threat to public health,
safety, and welfare. It is hereby found therefore that adequate protection of
public health, safety, and welfare requires the establishment and enforcement
of minimum rental housing maintenance standards.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DWELLING. Any structure designed or intended to be used primarily for
residential purposes.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any specific area, space, or rooms in any building,
structure, or enclosure or any part thereof, including any mobile home, rented
or leased, or offered for rent or lease, by any person(s) to any other person
(s) for use for residential purposes by the other person(s).
      LONG-TERM HOTEL DWELLING UNIT. A building, structure, enclosure, or any
part thereof used as, maintained as, advertised as, or held out to be place
where sleeping accommodations are furnished to the public and furnishing
accommodations for periods of more than 1 week.
      ROOMING HOUSE DWELLING UNIT. Any specific area, space, or room in any
building, structure, or enclosure or any part thereof, within a dwelling used
or held out to be a place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to the
public a regular roomers for periods of 1 week or more.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to any hotel or motel room or facility
license by the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 93.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, as the owner, manager, or other person having
control of any dwelling, to lease, rent, or permit to be leased rented, any
dwelling within the city without first having obtained a rental license for sue
dwelling from the City of Wells.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04 LICENSE AND FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an annual dwelling rental license for each long-term hotel
of rooming house dwelling unit shall be in an amount set by City Council per
room for each room available for rent up to 6, and in an amount set by City
Council per room for each additional room available for rent over 6.
   (B)   The fee for an annual dwelling rental license for each dwelling unit
that uses an inspection from a state or federal agency shall be in an amount as
set by City Council per dwelling unit for each dwelling unit available for
rent.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2001)
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 93.05 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on June 30
following the date the license is issued.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 93.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the application to be
provided by the City of Wells, for any rental license, the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a copy of the application to the Building
Inspector, whereupon the Inspector shall, within 10 days after receiving the
application, either inspect the dwelling to be licensed to determine whether
the dwelling complies with the provisions of applicable codes or accept a copy
of a building inspection conducted by a state or federal agency accompanied by
a statement from the agency verifying the inspection as meeting or exceeding
the provisions of this chapter. No rental license shall be issued by the city
unless the dwelling complies with provisions of the city code which pertain to
the dwelling. In addition, no license shall be issued if the dwelling does not
meet the requirements of §
93.07.
   (B)   Any residential rental properties that have been inspected by the
State of Minnesota Fire Marshal’s Office, by a State of Minnesota Building Code
Division Inspector, or a certified inspector from the Office of Housing and
Urban Development within two years prior to the license application are exempt
from the inspection requirement of this section if a copy of the inspection
report or compliance certificate is provided to the city at the time of
application and the property is in compliance with the inspecting agency’s
requirements.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-2001; Am. Ord. 22-02, passed
2-28-2022)
§ 93.07 SPACE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit other than a long-term hotel dwelling unit or a
rooming house dwelling unit shall have a room or portion of a room in which
food may be prepared and cooked, which shall have adequate circulation area,
and which shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
water supply system which is approved by the City of Wells and which provides
at al times an adequate amount of heated and unheated running water under
pressure, and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the City of
Wells;
      (2)   Cabinets or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking, and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not in ordinary summer
condition require refrigeration for safe keeping; and a counter or table for
food preparation; the cabinet or shelves and counter or table shall be of sound
construction furnished with surfaces that are easily cleanable and that will
not impart any toxic or harmful effect to food; and
      (3)   A stove, or similar device, for cooking food, and a refrigerator,
or similar device, for the safe storage of food at temperatures less than 45°F
but more than 32°F under ordinary maximum summer conditions, which are properly
installed with all necessary connection for safe, sanitary, and efficient
operation; provided that the stove, refrigerator, or similar devices need not
be installed when a dwelling unit is not occupied and when the occupant is
expected to provide same on occupancy.
   (B)   Within every dwelling unit, other than a long-term hotel dwelling unit
or rooming house dwelling unit, there shall be provided a water closet,
lavatory sink, and bathing facilities, equipped as follows:
      (1)   A non-habitable room which affords privacy to a person within the
room and which is equipped with a flush water closet in good working condition.
The flush water closet shall be equipped with easily cleanable surfaces, be
properly connected to a water system that at all times provides an adequate
amount of running water under pressure to cause the water closet to be operated
properly, and shall be properly connected to a sewer system which is approved
by the City of Wells. The room shall have an operable window or mechanical
ventilation sufficient to provide the equivalent of 5 air exchanges per hour;
      (2)   A lavatory sink. The lavatory sink may be in the same room as the
flush water closet, or, if located in another room, the lavatory sink shall be
located in close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which
the water closet is located. The lavatory sink shall be in good working
condition and properly connected to a water supply which is approved by the
appropriate authority and which provides at all times and adequate amount of
heated and unheated running water under pressure, and which is properly
connected to a sewer system approved by the appropriate authority; and
      (3)   A room which affords privacy to a person within the room and which
is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working condition. The bathtub of
shower may be in the same room as the flush water closet or in another room and
shall be properly connected to a water supply system which is approved by the
appropriate authority and which provides at all times an adequate amount of
heated and unheated water under pressure, and which is connected to a sewer
system approved by the appropriate authority.
   (C)   Every long-term hotel dwelling unit and rooming house dwelling unit
shall have access to a water closet, lavatory sink, and bathing facilities
equipped within the specifications of division (B) above. Each of these
facilities may be available or used by no more than 2 long-term hotel or
rooming house dwelling units.
   (D)   Every dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit, and rooming house
dwelling unit shall have at least 2 means of egress leading to safe and open
space at ground level, and which meet all requirements of Chapter 8 of the
Uniform Housing Code. Every dwelling of a multiple dwelling shall have
immediate access to 2 or more approved means of egress leading to safe and open
space at ground level. Bedrooms located below the first floor shall be provided
with an exterior door or window of the dimensions and construction as to be
used as a means of emergency egress.
   (E)   Structurally sound hand rails shall be provided on any steps
containing 3 or more risers. Porches, patios, or balconies located more than 30
inches higher than the adjacent area shall have structurally sound protective
guardrails.
   (F)   Access to and from each dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit,
and rooming house dwelling unit shall be provided without passing through any
other dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling
unit.
   (G)   No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling unit, long-
term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit unless all exterior
doors and windows of the dwelling unit are equipped with appropriate,
functioning locking devices.
   (H)   Every foundation, roof and exterior wall, door, skylight and window
shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight and damp free, and shall be kept
in sound condition and good repair. Floors, interior walls and ceilings shall
be sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint which
is not lead-based paint or other protective covering or treatment.
   (I)   Every window, exterior door, and hatchway or similar device shall be
so constructed to exclude insects during that portion of the year when there is
a need for protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other flying insects.
   (J)   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent, or
tenant occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound and
be maintained in good repair and free of insects and rodents, or the structures
shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of the accessory structures
shall be made weather resistant through the use of decay-resistant materials or
the use of lead-free paint or other preservative.
   (K)   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition. All waste system
clean-out plugs must be easily accessible.
   (L)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom and kitchen floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (M)   Every plumbing fixture and pipe, every chimney, flue and smoke pipe,
every mechanical and electrical fixture and component, and every other
facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is present in a dwelling unit,
long-term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit which is required
under this chapter, shall be constructed and installed in conformance with the
appropriate statutes, ordinances, and regulations of the Uniform Housing Code,
City of Wells, and the State of Minnesota.
   (N)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from
or shut off from or discontinued from any occupied dwelling unit, long-term
hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit; except for the temporary
interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in
process, or during temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is
approved by the appropriate authority.
   (O)   Every dwelling shall be equipped with smoke detectors as required by
Minnesota State Building Code.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.08 OCCUPANCY STANDARDS.
   Permissible occupancy of a dwelling unit. The maximum permissible occupancy
of any dwelling unit shall be deemed as follows:
   (A)   Minimum space. For the first 2 occupants, 220 square feet of habitable
room floor space and for every additional occupant thereof, at least 100 square
feet of habitable room floor space;
   (B)   Maximum occupancy. In no event shall the total number of occupants
exceed 2 times the number of habitable rooms, less kitchen, in the dwelling
unit; and
   (C)   Occupancy of sleeping rooms. In every dwelling unit of 2 or more
rooms, every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall have the following
minimum habitable room floor space: 70 square feet for 1 person; 90 square feet
for 2 persons; and required habitable room floor space shall be increased at
the rate of 50 square feet for each occupant in excess of 2.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.09 REGISTER OF OCCUPANCY.
   Each owner of a dwelling within the city that is rented or offered for rent
for residential purposes shall maintain a register of occupancy for each
dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit and rooming house dwelling unit,
which register shall be available for examination by city officials, and shall
include the following information:
   (A)   The address of each dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit, and
rooming house dwelling unit;
   (B)   The number of bedrooms in each dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling
unit, and rooming house dwelling unit;
   (C)   The names of the current occupants off each dwelling unit, long-term
dwelling unit, and rooming house dwelling unit; and
   (D)   The telephone numbers of the current occupants of each dwelling unit,
long-term hotel dwelling unit, and rooming house dwelling unit.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.10 AGENT REQUIRED.
   When the owner of a dwelling within the city, rented or offered for rent for
residential purposes, does not reside within Faribault County, the owner shall,
by a written document executed and acknowledged by the owner, appoint an agent
residing within Faribault County, Minnesota, upon which agent the city may
serve notices pertaining to the administration of this ordinance or of any
provisions of the city code pertaining to the dwelling, which service shall be
as effective as if made upon the owner.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued pursuant to this section may be transferred to another
party, provided that any licensee shall give written notice of the transfer to
the city at least 48 hours prior to the transfer of the licensed premises,
which notice shall include the name and address of the transferee.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 93.12 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   The license holder shall be responsible to cause persons occupying the
dwelling to conduct themselves in a manner as to not cause the premises to be
disorderly (conduct as would violate ordinance(s) of the city code or criminal
statutes of the State of Minnesota), to be used in connection with the illegal
sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages, or possession of contraband.
   (B)   The Wells Police Department shall be charged with the responsibility
of enforcing division (A) above.
   (C)   Upon determination by the Wells Police Department that disorderly
conduct has occurred on the licensed premises, the Housing Inspector shall
notify the license holder and each individual tenant by regular mail of the
violation and direct the license holder to take steps to prevent further
violations.
   (D)   If another instance of disorderly conduct on the premises occurs
within 12 months of an incident for which notice in division (C) above was
given, the license holder and each individual tenant shall be notified by
regular mail of the instance of disorderly use. The license holder shall also
be required to respond in writing as to the steps taken to prevent further
violations of this subdivision.
   (E)   If a third instance of disorderly conduct on the premises occurs
within 12 months after receipt of notices as pursuant to divisions (C) and (D)
above, the rental license may be revoked or suspended for the dwelling unit,
long-term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling unit. The suspension
or revocation may be for all dwelling units, long-term hotel dwelling units, or
rooming house dwelling units in a given building or complex of buildings. If
the notice of violation has been with respect to a common area of a building or
complex of buildings, then the license as to all dwelling units, long-term
hotel dwelling units or rooming house dwelling units in the building or complex
of buildings may be suspended or revoked. Upon suspension or revocation, a
license holder shall pay to the city a reinstatement fee equal to $100 for the
first dwelling unit, long-term hotel dwelling unit, or rooming house dwelling
unit re-licensed, and $20 for each additional dwelling unit, long-term hotel
dwelling unit or rooming house dwelling unit re-licensed. A suspension may be
stayed subject to payment of the applicable reinstatement fees and no further
violations of this section for a period of 1 year.
   (F)   No suspension or revocation shall be imposed where the instance of
disorderly conduct on the premises occurred during the pendency of eviction
proceedings (unlawful detainer) or within 30 days of notice given by the
license holder to a tenant to vacate the premises where the eviction
proceedings were undertaken or notice to vacate was given. Eviction proceedings
shall not be a bar to sanctions, however, unless they are diligently pursued by
the license holder.
   (G)   All written leases for licensed premises executed after 1-1-1998,
shall contain a clause providing that conduct which would be violative or
division (A) above shall constitute a material breach of the lease and grounds
for termination of the lease.
   (H)   It shall be irrelevant to proceedings hereunder that the license
holder or others were not criminally prosecuted or were acquitted of criminal
charges for the incidents serving as the basis of the suspension or revocation.
   (I)   This chapter becomes effective 1-1-1998. All existing dwelling units,
rooming house dwelling units, and long-term hotel dwelling units will be
licensed prior to 6-1-1998.
(Ord. 231, passed 9-8-1997)
   (J)   (1)   Failure to comply with any or all parts of this chapter will
result in a yearly fine of $300 per unit of rental dwellings. If parties have
not made application and paid the rental ordinance fee within 30 days of the
implementation date of this chapter they will be fined $300 yearly until
properties are brought into compliance.
      (2)   Upon passage of this amendment and proper publication, rental unit
owners have until 10-1-1998 to make application to the City of Wells for their
rental license. If application has not been made, owners will be fined $300
yearly until compliance is met.
(Am. Ord. passed 8-10-1998)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
94.01   Fire limits
Burning of Solid Fuels in External Solid Fuel-Fired  Heating Devices and Solid
Fuel Storage
   
94.10   Purpose
   
94.11   Definitions
   
94.12   Exceptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   All that part of the City of Wells lying within the area described in
this section shall be designated as and shall constitute the fire limits of the
City of Wells, Faribault County, Minnesota, to-wit: commencing at the
intersection of the center line of Second Avenue Northwest with the center line
of Minnesota Trunk Highway 109 and running thence easterly and southeasterly
along the center line of the Minnesota Trunk Highway 109 to its intersection
with the easterly corporate limits of the City of Wells, Minnesota, thence
south to the center line of Third Street Southeast, thence west along the
center line of Third Street Southeast to the center line of Second Avenue
Southwest, thence north along the center line of the Second Avenue to the point
of beginning.
(Am. Ord. 60, passed 8-6-1907; Am. Ord. 163A, passed 12-6-1966)
   (B)   No building shall hereafter be erected, enlarged, repaired, improved
or placed within the boundaries of the fire limit until a permit for the
erection, enlarging, repairing, improving, or placing thereof shall have first
been obtained from the City Council of the City of Wells, Faribault County,
Minnesota.
   (C)   (1)   No building or structure of any kind or description shall be
erected, constructed, or placed within the fire limits as defined in division
(A) above, or as the same may be hereafter defined, unless the building or
structure shall be constructed in the manner following, to-wit: The outside or
party walls thereof shall be not less than 8 inches thick and shall be composed
of brick or stone, and all walls excepting front and rear walls and the inside
walls of every second building or structure shall extend through and at least
15 inches above the roof, provided that buildings erected and used as dwellings
only may be constructed with walls 8 inches in thickness and the walls thereof
shall not be required to extend above the roof. All cornices hereafter
constructed or placed upon buildings within the fire limits shall be
constructed of brick, stone, or metal.
      (2)   All chimneys hereafter erected within the fire limits shall be
built to a height of at least 4 feet above the roof, and shall be composed of
brick and shall not be less than 4 inches thick. The roof of every building
hereafter erected within the fire limits shall be composed of slate, metal, or
other non-combustible material.
   (D)   There shall be annually appointed in the month of March by the City
Council of the City of Wells, 1 person as Fire Chief who shall receive the
compensation as shall be fixed by the City Council; the Fire Chief to hold
office for the term of 1 year and until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
   (E)   The Fire Chief shall before entering upon the duties of his or her
office make oath for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office and shall also make and file a bond with sufficient sureties to be
approved by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Wells in the
sum of $1,000 conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his or
her office as required by this section.
(Ord. 26, passed 8-14-1895)
Penalty, see § 10.99
BURNING OF SOLID FUELS IN EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED
HEATING DEVICES AND SOLID FUEL STORAGE
§ 94.10 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter regulates the use of external solid fuel-fired heating
devices designed so that usable heat is derived for the interior of a building.
A building permit is required for any external solid fuel-fired heating device
or external storage unit. All outdoor external solid fuel-fired heating devices
are subject to public nuisance. The exhaust stacks or chimneys must be
constructed according to the manufacturers specifications and must be a minimum
of 25 feet above ground level, and must be masonry or insulated metal with a
minimum 6 inch internal flue diameter. Only clean fuel solids may be burned, or
stored for burning in the device.
(Ord. 8, Second Series, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 94.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN FUEL SOLIDS. Natural dry wood, corn, or pellets which have not been
painted, varnished, stained, or coated with a similar material, have not been
treated with preservatives and does not contain any resins or glues as in
plywood, particle board, or other wood composites.
   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. An appliance installed out of
doors and designed to transfer or provide heat, via liquid, steam, or other
means, through the burning of clean fuel solids for heating purposes. Also
known as “outdoor wood-fired hydronic heaters” and “outdoor wood-fired
boilers”.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. As defined in §
92.15 of The Wells City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 8, Second Series, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 94.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a
building used for human or animal habitation.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, kerosene, or fuel oil in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to campfires, a small outdoor fire
intended for recreation or cooking.
(Ord. 8, Second Series, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation, or other entity who shall violate any of
the provisions of §§
94.10 through
94.12 or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of §§
94.10 through
94.12 or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions of §§
94.10 through
94.12 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90
days. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 8, Second Series, passed 12-22-2008)
CHAPTER 95: SMOKING IN PUBLIC RECREATIONAL AREAS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Prohibition
   
95.03   Exceptions
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   For purposes of this chapter, the terms CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS,
and HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS shall have the definitions given to them in
M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC RECREATIONAL AREA. Includes:
      (1)   City parks, including trails and park shelters located within a
park property and city-owned or city-controlled parking lots adjacent to all
city parks.
      (2)   Any city-maintained or city-controlled playground or other indoor
or outdoor facility used for sports or athletics, including basketball courts
and skate parks, the golf course and pool.
      (3)   The Veteran's Memorial.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, vaping or carrying any lighted or
heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product
containing, made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, cannabis plant,
hemp plant, cannabinoid product or other plant, whether natural or synthetic,
that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING includes carrying or using an
activated electronic delivery device.
(Ord. 23-04, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall smoke or vape tobacco products, cannabis flower, cannabis
products, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public recreational area or
anywhere smoking is prohibited by the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act. A
violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor and is punishable in
accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 23-04, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This prohibition does not apply to the exceptions included in M.S. §
342.09, including any city sanctioned event or private permitted event held in
a city park that is licensed by the Office of Cannabis Management to permit on-
site consumption of cannabis flower, cannabis products, or hemp- derived
consumer products.
   (B)   This chapter does not prohibit smoking as part of a traditional
spiritual or cultural ceremony, as stated by M.S. § 144.4167.
(Ord. 23-04, passed 10-10-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain businesses
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by Title XI of this code or by any other ordinance
of the city or provision of this code without first applying for and obtaining
a license from the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized
issuing authority.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other
authorized official in writing upon forms to be furnished by him or her and
shall contain:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, address, and telephone number, and the
full name of each officer, partner or business associate, if applicable;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for the preceding 5 years;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise, goods or services to be sold;
      (7)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a full description of the motor
vehicle, including the make, model, year, color, license number, and vehicle
registration (VIN) number of the vehicle.
      (8)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Any change in the information required by division (A) of this section
must be reported to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized
official within 14 days of that change.
   (C)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the basis of the original application, unless otherwise provided.
However, if a request for renewal is not submitted to the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized official within 21 days after the date of
expiration for the preceding license, the applicant must fill out an original
application.
   (D)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the proper fee
if approval by another officer or department is not required, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, shall deposit the fee in the general fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued. However, at any time after December 1, licenses may be issued for the
next calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be
required of licensees irrespective of the date of issuance of the license.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the premises the license certificate. Other licensees
shall carry their licenses at all times, and whenever requested by any officer
or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer or City Council at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective upon notice served
upon the licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons
for the suspension or revocation and a statement concerning the right to appeal
the decision. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee's application.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license by the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer, or if his or her license has been suspended or revoked by the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, the applicant or licensee shall within 10
business days have the right to appeal to the City Council from the denial,
suspension or revocation. Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized official. Unless a
regular meeting of the City Council at which the appeal can be heard is
scheduled within 21 days after receiving the notice of appeal, the Mayor shall
schedule a special meeting of the City Council for the hearing within the 21-
day period. Three members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum to hear
the appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the suspension or revocation shall
become final.
CHAPTER 111: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Bowling; billiards and pool
   
111.02   Circuses, carnivals, shows and other entertainment
   
111.03   Amusement devices
   
111.04   Deposit required
   
111.05   License fee for public entertainment or exhibition
§ 111.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or a
combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee in an amount established
by the Council from time to time.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, SHOWS AND OTHER ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus,
carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game or other
entertainment, for which there is a charge for admission, shall first obtain a
license and pay the license fee or fees as established by the Council from time
to time.
      (2)   Local school entertainment, charitable organizations, lecture
courses, and lectures on historic, literary or scientific subjects are not
subject to the provisions of this section; provided, that the entertainment is
not for profit.
   (B)   In addition to any other requirements, the applicant for a license
shall give at least 1-week's notice in writing to the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer or other authorized official, stating the dates of the performances
and the location at which the performances are to be presented. The City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall give his or her consent to the issuance of
the license if he or she deems that the location is suitable for the purpose;
that it will properly accommodate the patrons; that the nature of the
performance or exhibition does not pose a threat to the health, safety or
general welfare of the public; and that the use of the location will not create
too great a burden upon the Police Department or the Fire Department.
   (C)   No circus, carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game
or other entertainment shall be given for more than 2 consecutive days, except
in cases where the City Council by resolution allows a longer period, or where
the exhibition is to be conducted on municipal property and the use thereof for
a longer period shall have been approved by the City Council.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.03 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The term COIN-OPERATED MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE means any machine,
which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be operated
by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether
or not registering a score. It includes such devices as marble machines,
pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines, mechanical rides
intended for use by children, such as merry-go-rounds, horses, ferris wheels,
and the like; carnival, fair, and/or festival rides, and all similar games,
operations or transactions under whatever name they may be indicated.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not display for public
use any coin-operated mechanical amusement device without obtaining a license
for it and paying the fee established by the Council from time to time.
Applications for a license must be made to the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The license or licenses obtained must be posted permanently and
conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises where the machine
is to be operated.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time application for a license is made, where use of municipal
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other designated municipal official a cash
bond in an amount to be determined by the City Council, conditioned upon the
restoration and cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the
Mayor. In the event the grounds are restored and cleaned up properly following
the exhibition, the deposit shall be returned; otherwise the same shall be
forfeited to the city to the extent of actual costs to the city for restoration
and cleaning up of the grounds.
   (B)   No licensee shall fail to restore or clean up the grounds upon which
the circus, carnival or other entertainment has taken place.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE FOR PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT OR EXHIBITION.
   The fee for the license shall be in an amount as established by the Council
from time to time.
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
112.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.23   License fees; pro rata
   
122.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Description of premises
   
112.27   Applications for renewal
   
112.28   Transfer of license
   
112.29   Investigation
   
112.30   Hearing and issuance
   
112.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.32   Conditions of license
   
112.33   Hours and days of sale
   
112.34   Minors on premises
   
112.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
112.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
112.50   Application of this subchapter
   
112.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
112.52   Location
   
112.53   Operation
   
112.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
112.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
112.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter is adopted.
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
intoxicating or 3.2% malt, includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a SMALL ESTABLISHMENT,  MEDIUM
ESTABLISHMENT or  LARGE ESTABLISHMENT  as defined in M.S. §157.16, Subd. 3d, as
it may be amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged
food that receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza
that is heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for
purposes of this chapter unless it meets the definitions of SMALL
ESTABLISHMENT,  MEDIUM ESTABLISHMENT or  LARGE ESTABLISHMENT.
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of § 112.99(B).
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating beverages of any kind, including
beverages containing liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or any amount of THC, in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
(Ord. 23-04, passed 10-10-2023)
Penalty, see § 112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in § 112.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store
is authorized to issue only those licenses specified in § 112.55.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under § 112.23 shall not exceed $100
or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under § 112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. §
340A.408, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in
its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense
intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a community festival held
within the city under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be
amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a
retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed
premises at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair
conducted on the premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned
by the city, under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be
amended from time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing
intoxicating liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur
athletic event being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§ 112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least 3 years. No license shall be for
longer than 4 consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12-days’
worth of temporary licenses to any 1 organization in 1 calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at 1 time and meet the criteria of M.S. §340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in
§112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria
in M.S. §340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of
§112.23 shall not exceed 1/2 of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One-day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of § 112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the
maximum amount permitted by M.S. § 340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from
time to time. Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each
year.
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time the fee for any of the
liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the
cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the enforcement
of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased
without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all
affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 122.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 112.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 112.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 112.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than 1 license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any 1 person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training shall be
provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S.
§340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of § 112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, at least 1-day
suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 3-year period, at least 3
consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any 3-year period, at least 7
consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any 3-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Administrator, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within 10
days. Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.   
   (D)   The provisions of § 112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be
imposed in addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this
chapter.
Penalty, see § 112.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 112.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§ 112.50 through 112.55, applies only to a
city that has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a municipal
liquor store.
§ 112.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in § 112.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold
at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.52 LOCATION. 
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 112.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council's direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in § 112.33. No person, other than the
Manager or a store employee, may remain in the municipal liquor store longer
than 1/2 hour after the time when the sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 112.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue
3.2%t malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
§ 112.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to
time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold
a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any
person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule
of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any
suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding 3-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   License transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Prohibited activities
   
113.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any 1 location for more
than 14 consecutive days.
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise, or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold
by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes
initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
§ 113.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to § 113.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. All applications shall be
signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information, and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, within 2 regular
business days, must determine if the application is complete. An application is
determined to be complete only if all required information is provided. If the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must inform the applicant of
the required necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must order any investigation,
including background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with
the application. Within 10 regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must issue the license
unless there exist grounds for denying the license under § 113.04, in which
case the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must deny the license. If the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer denies the license, the applicant must be
notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request.
The decision of the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed
by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for 1 calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion, and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past 5 years from the date
of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation,
or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's ability to
conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an honest and
legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past 5 years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and/or
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than 3 complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or 3 complaints filed
against the applicant within the preceding 5 years.
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under § 113.04; and/or
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under 1 license. The suspension or revocation of any
license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
within 10 regular business days following the service of the notice, the city
may proceed with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed
notices, service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is
placed in the mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated time
frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the
request. Within 3 regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall
notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under § 113.03, shall be required to register with the city.
Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license application,
but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration
form, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; and/or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least 4 inches long and 4 inches
wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating No Peddlers, Solicitors,
or Transient Merchants, or Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
Prohibited, or other comparable statement. No person other than the property
owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or
placard under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 114: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
114.03   License
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Basis for denial of license
   
114.06   Prohibited sales
   
114.07   Vending machines
   
114.08   Self-service sales
   
114.09   Responsibility
   
114.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
114.11   Other illegal acts
   
114.12   Violations
   
114.13   Exceptions and defenses
   
114.14   Effective date
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess, and use tobacco, tobacco products, and
tobacco related devices, and the sales, possession, and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies have shown that most smokers
before they have reached the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach
the age of 18 years without having started smoking are significantly less
likely to begin smoking; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of
several serious health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on
all levels of government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale,
possession, and use of tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors
against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices, and to further the official public
policy of the State of Minnesota in regard to preventing young people from
starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all
terms shall by given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall
include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine
shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice versa. The term SHALL means
mandatory and the term MAY means permissive.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure
that those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related
devices are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this
chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to
purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices for educational,
research and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the
purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state, or local laws and regulations
relating to tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices.
      INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not limited to, single cigarette packs, single bags
or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging of
snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this subdivision shall not be
considered individually packaged.
      LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually
packaged cigarette.
      MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
      MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
      NICOTINE DELIVERY PRODUCTS. Any product or device containing or
delivering nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption or any part of
such a product or device not otherwise specifically approved and/or certified
by the United States Food and Drug Administration for tobacco use cessation,
harm reduction or for other medical purposes and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general
public. Retail establishments shall include, but not be limited to, grocery
stores, convenience stores, and restaurants.
      SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
      SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to
the tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
tobacco, tobacco product,  or tobacco related device between the customer and
the licensee or employee. Self-service merchandising shall not include vending
machines. (Under the F.D.A. tobacco regulations adopted in 1996, self-service
sales are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual physical
exchange of the tobacco between the clerk and the customer).
      TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Cigarettes and any product containing, made,
or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed,
smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any
other means, or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, cigars;
cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff four; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco;
fine-cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings
and sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco. TOBACCO
PRODUCTS excludes any tobacco product that has been approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as
a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
      TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Cigarette papers or pipes for smoking.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 114.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery devices without first having
obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   (1)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices shall be made to the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall contain the full name of
the applicant, the applicant's residential and business address and telephone
numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought, and any
additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the
application to the Council for action at its next regularly scheduled Council
meeting. If the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall determine that an
application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
      (2)   Action. The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for the reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
Council shall approve the license, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue the license to the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice
of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the
applicant's right to appeal the council's decision.
      (3)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on
December 31 next after its issuance. Any license issued after January 31 in any
year, the fee shall be computed at the rate of $1 for each month or fractional
part of a month covered by the license.
      (4)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may
be revoked or suspended as provided in this chapter.
      (5)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid
only on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person
to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location
or person shall be valid without the prior approval of the council.
      (6)   Movable place of business. No license shall be issued to a movable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
      (7)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view
of the general public on the licensed premise.
      (8)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall
be handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license issued under this
chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)  
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
$12.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was as ineligible for the license
under this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information; and/or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation, from holding the license.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 114.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or
offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery devices:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
      (3)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need
to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee's employee, and the
customer;
      (4)   By means of loosies as defined in § 114.02;
      (5)   Containing opium, morphine, jimsonweed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and/or
      (6)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
   (B)   Cartons and other multipack units may be offered and sold through open
displays accessible to the public until the time as F.D.A. regulations indicate
otherwise.
(Amendment #1, passed 10-6-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine
delivery devices by the means of a vending machine unless minors are at all
times prohibited from entering the licensed establishment. This option mirrors
both state and federal laws.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine
delivery devices by any means whereby the customer may have access to the items
without having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee’s employee
and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product,
the tobacco related device, or the nicotine delivery device between the
licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, and nicotine delivery devices shall either be stored
behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case
or other storage unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any
retailer selling tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery devices at the time this chapter is adopted shall comply with
this section within 30 days at which time all self-service sales of cigarettes
would be banned. The F.D.A. contains an exemption for stores where minors are,
at all times, prohibited from entering. The state law further restricts this
exemption to stores that generate 90% or more of their revenues from the sale
of tobacco and tobacco related products. Cities have the option of adopting the
state exemption language or allowing no exceptions. If no exceptions are
allowed, a preemption waiver will be required. Further, the state and federal
regulations on self-service sales only apply to cigarettes and smokeless
tobacco. Cities could, therefore, exempt cigars and other forms of tobacco
without seeking a waiver.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
   (B)   Cartons and other multipack units may be offered and sold through open
displays accessible to the public until the time as F.D.A. regulations indicate
otherwise.
(Amendment #1, passed 10-6-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of the item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 114.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 15 years but less than 18 years to enter the licensed premise to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks
shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement officers or other
designated city personnel. Minors used for compliance checks shall not be
guilty of unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, or nicotine delivery devices when the items are obtained as a part of
the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a
false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors lawfully
engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the minor’s age
asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related
device, or nicotine delivery device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device, or nicotine delivery device. This division (B) shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device or nicotine delivery device or product other than for uses
approved and/or certified by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product, tobacco related device, or nicotine delivery device, and it
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise
obtain the items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a violation for any
person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or
otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device,
or nicotine delivery device. This division (D) shall not apply to minors
lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
1 which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to represent
an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall serve as the hearing officer.
   (D)   Decision.
      (1)   If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this chapter
did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officers reasons for finding a
violation and the penalty to be imposed under § 10.99, shall be recorded in
writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused violator.
      (2)   Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred
or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, the findings shall be recorded
and a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from seeking
prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter.
      (2)   If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 114.13 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery devices to a
minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural
ceremony.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter
for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state
law.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 114.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on the day after its publication.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully purchase or
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery devices, shall be subjected to community service with hours
to be determined at the time of violation.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-8-1997; Am. Ord. 114.15, passed 12-13-2010)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Damage to property; graffiti
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
   
130.04   Fireworks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, see § 30.03
§ 130.01 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY; GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. In addition to its usual and customary meaning of defacing
walls or structures with messages or slogans, GRAFFITI shall also mean any
letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline, character,
spectacle, delineation, announcement, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch,
inscription or representation, wherein the contents thereof are visible to any
member of the general public and which contains references to sexual activity,
diagrams relating to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal
activities or groups which promote or are involved in criminal activity,
swearing or fighting words, defamatory materials about any person, references
to relationships, or any marking of any kind whatsoever which results in damage
to, defacing of, marring of, or discoloring of any sidewalk, street, or other
public surface, any vehicle, any equipment, lamp, lamp post or other city
property, or of the exterior surface of a wall, fence, door, building or other
structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
      OWNER. Means and includes the owner of record of the subject property,
whether public or private, at the time of the placement or discovery of the
graffiti or at a subsequent time, the beneficial owner under a land trust, the
contract purchaser, or that person or persons or trust in whose name the
general taxes for the last preceding year were paid, except that OWNER shall
not include the city.
   (B)   Conduct prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw, or otherwise place
or cause to be placed any graffiti upon the surface of any building, structure,
wall or surface of other property that is publicly or privately owned.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly
permit any minor child in his or her custody or control to violate division (B)
(1) of this section.
      (3)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor defendant who resides with
the parent or legal guardian at the time of the offense may be held liable for
any fine or condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a
minor for violation of this section; provided, that minor has not paid the fine
or made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and
further provided that the parent or legal guardian has been served with summons
or notice to appear whether in the original cause or in any subsequent
proceedings arising therefrom, including sentencing or collection actions, as
provided by law.
   (C)   Removal by owner.
      (1)   Owner's responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
structure or wall or other private property upon which any graffiti is placed
or made to remove, eradicate, or eliminate the inscription or representation
within 30 days of the occurrence unless granted additional time by the City
Council.
      (2)   Notice to remove graffiti. In the event the owner has failed to
eliminate the graffiti, the owner shall be notified by certified mail or
personal notice that he or she has 30 days from the date of the notice in which
to remove the graffiti. In the event that charges have been filed against the
person believed responsible for placement of the graffiti and the owner can
show to the city that there is a reasonable likelihood that the person will be
required to make restitution or restore the premises to its previous condition,
the owner may be given additional time to meet the removal requirements. In no
event shall the owner be granted more than a total of 6-months' time to remove
graffiti, but any extensions shall be based solely upon a reasonable likelihood
of apprehension and conviction of the person responsible. In the absence of the
reasonable likelihood, the owner is responsible for removal within the time
allowed in divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (3)   List of contractors and cleaning materials. The city may make
available a list of contractors in the business of removing graffiti and list
of cleaning materials generally recognized in the industry as effective in the
removal of graffiti. By providing lists of contractors and cleaning materials,
the city does not guarantee the quality or adequacy of work performed by anyone
selected by owner or the effectiveness or safety of the materials listed, and
the city expressly disclaims responsibility or liability for the quality or
adequacy of the work or materials or any claims for damage or injury arising
therefrom.
   (D)   Removal by the city.
      (1)   The city shall have the right but not the duty to remove graffiti
from the exterior of private property if the owner informs the city of the
presence of the graffiti and of the owner's inability to remove it. Prior to
the city entering any private property to remove graffiti, the owner must sign
a statement authorizing removal by the city and agreeing to pay the reasonable
costs of the removal and to allow the recording of a lien against the real
estate upon which the work was performed if the cost is not paid to the city
within 30 days of the date of the invoice sent to the owner. The owner must
also sign a release holding the city harmless from any claims or suits brought
for damages pursuant to any adverse or injurious effects of such chemicals or
from the actions taken by the city or its employees to remove the graffiti
prior to the city commencing work on the property. If the property owner does
not remove the graffiti within the time specified or extended time requested
and granted by the city or if the city is unable to perform the work at the
request of the owner, the owner shall be subject to the penalties listed in
division (E) of this section.
      (2)   If the city performs the graffiti removal pursuant to division (D)
(1) of this section, it shall be entitled to a lien and to file a notice of
lien against the property upon which the work was performed for the cost of the
removal.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of division (B) of this
section, an offender shall be punished as provided in § 130.99. Additionally,
the court may, as a condition of probation, supervision, or conditional
discharge, require that the party guilty of violating the provisions of
division (B) of this section make full and complete restitution to the owner of
the property for expenses incurred in the removal of the graffiti or, with the
consent of the owner, restore the structure, wall, building or surface to its
previous condition. In addition, the court may order as a further penalty
community service in the form of time to be spent in cleaning property that has
been defaced by graffiti in any location in the city.
      (2)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of division (C)(1) of this
section, an offender shall be punished as provided in § 130.99. Each and every
day that graffiti is permitted to remain beyond the time specified in division
(C)(2) of this section shall constitute a separate violation.
   (F)   Compliance by the city.
      (1)   It is the intention of the city that graffiti discovered upon city
property or public property under the jurisdiction and control of the city will
be removed within the time periods for graffiti removal imposed upon other
governmental bodies and owners of private property under this section. The City
Council shall have the authority to order and direct the removal of graffiti.
      (2)   A designated city officer, or his or her designee, shall provide,
no less than semi-annually, a written report to the City Council of graffiti
incidents involving city property and removal efforts by the city. The report
shall include at a minimum the location of the graffiti, charges filed against
or convictions of offenders where relevant, the date and methods of graffiti
removal undertaken by the city and the cost of the removal.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Shooting upon, over or near a cemetery. No person shall, without
permission from the proper officials, discharge a firearm upon or over a
cemetery or within 100 yards thereof, unless the person is upon his or her own
land.
   (B)   Hunting near a city park. No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game
within 1/2 mile of a city park unless the City Council has granted permission
to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this division.
   (C)   Discharge of firearms prohibited in certain places. No person shall
discharge a firearm on a lawn, park, playground, orchard, or other ground
appurtenant to a school, church, or an inhabited dwelling, the property of
another, or a charitable institution. This section does not prevent or prohibit
the owner thereof from discharging firearms upon his or her own land.
   (D)   Discharging firearms on highways prohibited. No person shall discharge
a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation's armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in
the proper enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of
the right of self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by
proper federal, state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If any of the above provisions are found to be in conflict with M.S. §
624.717, as it may be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute
shall prevail.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for 4 primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel or intrastate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless 1 of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   A law enforcement officer must look into whether a minor has an
affirmative defense before making an arrest.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use, display, possession, discharge or sale of any fireworks not
expressly permitted by M.S. § 624.20, Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from
time to time, is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   All use, display or discharge of those non-explosive, non-aerial
pyrotechnic entertainment devices only containing the limited amounts of
pyrotechnic chemical compositions described in and permitted by M.S. § 624.20,
Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred to as
permitted consumer fireworks, is strictly prohibited in:
      (1)   The area on, below, above or within or in close proximity to:
recreational areas, roadways, streets, highways, bicycle lanes, pedestrian
paths, sidewalks, rights-of-way, lakes, rivers, waterways and all other
property owned or leased by the city, the county in which the city is located,
the State of Minnesota or the federal government and located in whole or in
part within the city limits;
      (2)   Private property within the city limits that has conspicuously
posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks discharge is allowed;
      (3)   Within 300 feet of any consumer fireworks retail sales facility or
storage area that has posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks
discharge is allowed; and
      (4)   Any property, area, or structure that, by its physical condition or
the physical conditions in which it is set, would constitute a fire or personal
safety hazard.
   (C)   All other use, display or discharge of permitted consumer fireworks
must be conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of fire or injury to
other persons or property.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violated any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in § 10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of § 130.03 may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of § 130.03 shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Manufactured homes installed or occupied within the manufactured home
park
   
150.02   Deferment of special assessments
Building Regulations
   
150.15   Minnesota State Building Code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MANUFACTURED HOMES INSTALLED OR OCCUPIED WITHIN THE MANUFACTURED HOME
PARK.
   (A)   All manufactured homes as defined in M.S. § 327.31, as it may be
amended from time to time, installed or occupied within the City of Wells,
Minnesota, shall be anchored in accordance with the Minn. Rules, parts
1350.2500 to 1350.8200, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   All the homes manufactured before 6-14-1976 will require an inspection
prior to installation or occupancy to confirm compliance with safety criteria
as set forth below and the Minnesota Building Code requirements.
   (C)   Any newly installed manufactured home older than 15 years from time of
the building permit will require an inspection to confirm the safety criteria
listed below.
   (D)   All manufactured homes manufactured before 6-14-1976 require a
conditional use permit. Approval of the permit may be granted provided the
following safety criteria are met.
      (1)   Smoke detectors are required in each bedroom and in the corridor.
      (2)   All windows must be a minimum of double glazing.
      (3)   One egress window is required in each bedroom.
      (4)   Gas piping installation must be retested, reinspected, and approved
by the City Building Inspector or his/her designee.
      (5)   Electrical service must be a minimum of 100-amp circuit breaker
type with ground fault interruption. All electrical must be intact and safe,
such as, no exposed wiring.
      (6)   Common sense items required include, but are not limited to: no
broken windows, handrails, or guardrails; safe heating appliances, water
heaters, and the like; no holes in floors; no exposed wiring; a functional
shower or bathtub; functional water closets; and the like.
      (7)   Compliance with M.S. §§ 327.31 through 327.36, as they may be
amended from time to time, and other applicable building codes, standards, and
regulations. No home manufactured before 6-14-1976 shall be occupied or
installed unless the provisions of divisions (D)(1) through (D)(2) above are
met.
   (E)   A building permit is required before installation or occupancy of any
manufactured home within the City of Wells pursuant to the Building Code.
   (F)   No recreational camping vehicle as defined in M.S. § 327.14, Subd. 7,
as it may be amended from time to time, shall be occupied as a residence or
living quarters from December 1 through March 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 237, passed 6-23-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.02 DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Special assessments for improvements to homestead property when
payment of the assessment would create a hardship upon the property owner, as
defined in division (B) below, may be deferred. The deferment shall be granted
upon a certification by the owner on a form prescribed by the County Auditor of
Faribault County, Minnesota, supplemented by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer of Wells, Minnesota, to establish the qualification of the owner for
the deferment. The application for the deferment shall be made within 30 days
after the adoption of the assessment roll by the City Council, and shall be
renewed each following year upon the filing of a similar application not later
than September 30. The Council shall either grant or deny the deferment, and if
it grants a deferment, it shall require the payment of interest due each year.
If the Council grants the deferment, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify the County Auditor who shall, in accordance with M.S. § 435.195,
as it may be amended from time to time, record a notice of deferment with the
County Recorder of Faribault County, Minnesota, setting forth the amount of
deferred assessment, and the description of the real estate involved.
   (B)   A hardship shall be deemed to exist when all of the following apply.
      (1)   The annual gross income of the homeowner, according to his/her most
recent federal income tax return, plus tax exempt income (social security,
veteran's benefits, unemployment, and annuities) does not exceed the industry
standard. If no income tax return was prepared and filed, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall require the applicant to submit other
pertinent information to show that this qualification is met.
(Am. Ord. 204, passed 9-15-1986; Am. Ord. 219, passed 8-5-1991)
      (2)   The applicant's total assets, exclusive of the value of the
homestead, do not exceed the industry standard.
      (3)   The applicant has not made a transfer of a material part or portion
of his/her assets within 3 years preceding the date of the application for
special assessment deferral.
   (C)   The deferment of payment of special assessments shall terminate, and
all amounts, plus accrued interest, if any, shall become due upon the
occurrence of any 1 of the following events:
      (1)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is eligible for
deferment;
      (2)   The sale, transfer, of subdivision of all or any part of the
homestead property;
      (3)   The loss of homestead status on the property;
      (4)   Determination by the Council for any reason that there would be no
hardship to require immediate or partial payment of the special assessment; or
      (5)   Failure to file a renewal application within the time prescribed in
division (A) above.
   (D)   Upon the occurrence of 1 of the events specified in division (C)
above, the City Council shall terminate the deferment. Thereupon, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the County Auditor of Faribault
County, Minnesota, of the termination, including the amounts accumulated on
unpaid installments plus applicable interest which shall become due and payable
as a result of the determination.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-22-1984)
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE.
   This section provides for the application, administration, and enforcement
of the Minnesota State Building Code by regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of all buildings and/
or structures in the municipality; provides for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees thereof; provides penalties for violation thereof; repeals
all ordinances and parts of ordinances that conflict therewith. This section
shall perpetually include the most current edition of the Minnesota State
Building Code with the exception of the optional index chapters. Option
appendix chapters shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
(Ord. 7, Second Series, passed 9-24-2007)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Jurisdiction
   
151.03   Application
   
151.04   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats
   
151.05   Definitions
Procedure
   
151.20   Preliminary plat
   
151.21   Final plat
   
151.22   Preliminary plats: data required
   
151.23   Final plats: data required
   
151.24   Design standards
   
151.25   Basic improvements
   
151.26   Registered land surveys and conveyance by metes and bounds
   
151.27   Variances, compliance, and violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to safeguard the best interest of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing the subdivider’s interests with those of the city at
large, this chapter is adopted. Because each new subdivision becomes a
permanent unit in the basic structure of the expanding community, and to which
the community will be forced to adhere, and because piecemeal planning of
subdivisions will bring on undesirable disconnected patchwork of pattern and
poor circulation of traffic unless its design and arrangement is correlated to
a Comprehensive Plan of the city aiming at a unified scheme of community
interests, all subdivisions of land hereafter submitted for approval to the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall, in all respects fully comply with the
regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter. It is the purpose of this
chapter to make certain regulations and requirements for the platting of land
within the city, pursuant to the authority contained in Minnesota Statutes
Annotated, which regulations the Council deems necessary for health, safety,
and the general welfare.
(Ord. 239, § 1500, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 151.02 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply
within the corporate limits of the city and the unincorporated area within 2
miles of its limits; provided that where a municipality lies less than 4 miles
from the limits of Wells, these regulations shall apply only to a line
equidistant from Wells and the municipality; and provided further, that the
governing body or bodies of unincorporated areas adjacent to the city have not
adopted ordinances for the regulation of subdivision of land or platting.
(Ord. 239, § 1501, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 151.03 APPLICATION.
   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or each part thereof lying
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared, presented for
approval, and recorded as prescribed in this section. The regulations contained
in this section shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land into 2 or more lots, tracts, or other division of land for the purpose of
sale or building development, whether immediate or future, including the re-
subdivision or re-platting of land or lots. Division of land into tracts larger
than 5 acres in area and 300 feet in width shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter, where no new street is involved.
(Ord. 239, § 1502, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 151.04 APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall have been
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and by the Council as having
fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, § 1503, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary of boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   BUILDING PERMIT. The building permit required under the Building Code of the
city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Refers to the group of maps, charts and texts that make
up the Comprehensive Guide Plan of the city.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things,
the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of the items as right-of-way,
blocks, easements, and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, TV and FM
transmission lines, storm sewer or storm drainage ways, gas lines, or roadways.
   EASEMENT, SLOPE. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land
for the purpose of constructing a slope or grade transition from the existing
property grade to a new street grade.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of subdivision, meeting all the requirements of
the city and in the form as required by the county for purposes of recording.
   INTERSECTION, STREET. The point of crossing or meeting of 2 or more streets.
   LOT. One unit of a recorded plat or subdivision, which has frontage on a
public street and is used or intended to be used as a building site under the
terms of this chapter.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and where appropriate
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or
private corporation, or a combination of any of them.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public lands and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access, to be used by pedestrians and which may be used for
the installation of utility line.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. The rise or fall of a slope in feet and tenths of a
foot for 100 feet of horizontal distance. The centerline of a street shall be
used to determine the street rise of grade.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, place, or however
otherwise designated.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Those that carry traffic from minor streets to the major
system of thoroughfares and highways, including the principal entrance streets
of residential districts as shown on the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. Minor streets which are parallel and adjacent to
thoroughfares and highways, and which provide access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   STREET, MINOR. Those which are used primarily for access to abutting
properties.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A private right-of-way affording access by pedestrians and
vehicles which is under individual rather than municipal control.
   STREET, THOROUGHFARES. Arterial streets which are used primarily for heavy
traffic and serving as an arterial trafficway between the various districts of
the community, as shown on the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street right-of-way.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 5
acres in area, for the purpose of transfer or ownership or building
development, or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land.
The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context,
relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   TANGENT. A straight line departing from a curve which is perpendicular to
the radius of that curve.
   TRACT. A parcel of land intended for division or development of subdivision.
   U.S.G.S. DATUM. Refers to United States Geodetic Survey Datum.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street centerline located between
lines of different percentage of grade.
(Ord. 239, § 1504, passed 1-22-2000)
PROCEDURE
§ 151.20 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   M.S. § 462.358 requires that approval of an application for a
preliminary plat must be given within 120 days from the time the preliminary
plat is submitted unless both the city and the applicant agree to an extension.
   (B)   Before dividing any tract of land into 2 or more lots or parcels, the
following procedure shall be followed.
      (1)   Submittal to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (a)   Upon acceptance by the Zoning Administrator of a completed
application for a preliminary plat containing all of the data required by §
151.22, the proposed preliminary plat shall be submitted to the city at least
10 days prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting at which the plat
shall be considered. The Community Development Director shall prepare the
report setting out whether or not the plat meets the requirements of state law,
the city code provisions, and the City Comprehensive Plan. The Community
Development Director shall present the report, together with recommendations,
to the next meeting of the Commission following its filing with the City
Planner with the city.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the plat at
the meeting at which it is submitted, and may consider it at special or
adjourned meetings as it shall determine are necessary.
         (c)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the authority to
recommend approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat, to approve it with
conditions attached, and to disapprove it until and unless certain conditions
are first complied with.
         (d)   Upon the making of its determination, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall embrace the same within a motion, which shall include all
conditions it requires for approval, or conditions upon which approval will be
granted, and shall set forth the reasons for the approval given. A copy of the
motion shall be sent forthwith to the subdivider and a copy thereof to the
Council, together with the plat that it approves, conditionally or otherwise.
      (2)   Submittal to the Council.
         (a)   Upon the adoption of the motion provided by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the plat shall come before the council for review.
         (b)   The Council may hold the public hearings on the plat as it shall
in its discretion determine, and upon the notice as it shall provide.
         (c)   The Council shall have authority to approve, disapprove, modify,
and amend the motion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and it may refer
the same to the Planning and Zoning Commission for further study. A referral to
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall not be deemed a final action thereon
by the Council, and the Planning and Zoning Commission shall report back
thereon no later than 45 days following the Council meeting at which it was
referred.
         (d)   Upon final decision by the Council, it shall embrace its
decision in a motion, provided, however, it may adopt the motion of the
Planning and Zoning Commission by reference.
         (e)   Upon decision by the Council, the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer shall transmit a copy of the motion, or notice of adoption without
change, to the subdivider.
         (f)   The approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute an
acceptance of the subdivision but it shall be deemed to be an authorization to
proceed with the preparation of the final plat.
         (g)   The approval of the preliminary plat by the Council shall be
effective for a period of 1 year from the date of approval by the Council.
         (h)   The subdivider may file a final plat limited to the portion of
the preliminary plat, which the subdivider proposes to record, and develop at
the time, provided that the portion must conform to all requirements of this
chapter. If some portion, or all, of the final plat has not been submitted to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for approval within the time herein above
provided, a preliminary plat must again be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Council for approval, unless the Commission and the Council
shall waive this requirement.
(Ord. 239, § 1505, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.21 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time,
requires that a decision on the approval of the final plat must be given 60
days after the applicant has met all requirements and conditions unless the
applicant agrees to an extension.
   (B)   After the preliminary plat has been approved, and the subdivider
determines to proceed to secure approval of all or a part thereof as a final
plat, the final plat shall be submitted as follows.
      (1)   Submittal to Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (a)   Upon acceptance of a completed application for a final plat
containing all of the data required by §151.23, the Zoning Administrator shall
submit the proposal final plat to the city at least 10 days prior to the
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting at which the same be considered. The
Community Development Director shall prepare a report setting out whether or
not the final plat is in substantial agreement with the preliminary plat and if
not, in which particulars it varies from the preliminary plat and whether or
not it conforms to the requirements of law and city code provisions, and that
the final plat meets all the conditions attached to final approval of the
preliminary plat.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the final plat
at the meeting at which it is submitted, and may consider it at the special or
adjourned meetings as it shall determine are necessary.
         (c)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the authority to
recommend approval or disapproval of the final plat. If it shall determine that
it cannot approve it unless certain conditions are attached, it shall by motion
set forth the conditions for approval and forthwith send a copy of the
conditions to the subdivider. All further action on the plat shall be suspended
until the subdivider responds to the conditions. If the subdivider takes no
further action within a period of 3 months from the date of the adoption of the
conditions, the plat shall be deemed to be disapproved.
         (d)   Final action by motion on the final plat shall be communicated
forthwith to the subdivider by the Secretary of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. A copy of the motion shall be sent to the Council, together with
the plat, and the other data, as the Commission shall determine.
         (e)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission approves the final plat,
the Chairperson and the Secretary shall sign the same.
      (2)   Submittal to the Council.
         (a)   Upon the adoption of the motion of approval or disapproval by
the Planning and Zoning Commission, the final plat shall come before the
Council for review.
         (b)   The Council shall have the authority to hold the hearings on the
final plat as it shall determine, and upon the notice as it shall provide.
         (c)   If the Council is not satisfied with the final plat as
presented, it may:
            1.   Disapprove the same;
            2.   Set forth the conditions and requirements as it shall require
to be fulfilled before the same is approved; or
            3.   Refer the same to the Planning and Zoning Commission for the
further action as it shall determine. Upon the referral, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall act thereon at the next meeting and report back to the
Council no later than 45 days after the action of the Council.
         (d)   If the Council shall determine to accept the plat, it shall by
motion so determine, and the resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all
streets, alleys, easements, or other public ways, parks, and other spaces
dedicated to public purposes.
         (e)   The action of the Council finally determining the matter shall
be communicated by the Community Development Director to the subdivider. If the
plat is disapproved, the Administrator shall set forth the reasons given by the
Council for the determination.
(Ord. 239, § 1506, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 151.22 PRELIMINARY PLATS: DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   Filing. The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary
plat, together with any necessary supplementary information. Five copies of a
preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision shall be filed with the city.
Every preliminary plat shall contain the required data set forth in this
section.
   (B)   Identification and description data. The following data regarding
identification and description of preliminary plat shall be provided:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, which shall not duplicate the name of
any plat heretofore recorded in the county;
      (2)   Location by section, township, and range, or by other legal
description;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner and subdivider having control of
the lands included in the preliminary plat, the designer of the plat and the
surveyor;
      (4)   Graphic scale, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   North point; and
      (6)   Date of preparation.
   (C)   Existing condition data. The following data regarding existing
condition shall be provided:
      (1)   Boundary line survey, including measured distances and angles,
which shall close by latitude and departure with an error of closure not
exceeding 1 foot in 7,500 feet;
      (2)   Total acreage in the preliminary plat computed to 1/10 of an acre;
      (3)   Locations and names of existing or platted streets or other public
ways, parks, and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures,
easements and section and corporate lines within the tract and to a distance of
100 feet beyond the tract;
      (4)   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or a replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with its
original names shall be indicated by dotted or dashed lines. Also, any revised
or vacated roadways of the original plat shall be so indicated;
      (5)   Location and size of existing paved streets, railroads, sewers,
water mains, gravel pits, culverts, or other underground facilities within the
tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract. Also the data as grades,
invert elevations, and location of catch basins, manholes, and hydrants;
      (6)   Boundary lines of adjoining platted or unplatted land within 100
feet of the tract; and
      (7)   When in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Commission it is
necessary, complete topographic map with contour intervals not greater than 2
feet, water courses, marshes, rock outcrops, and other significant features may
be required, all superimposed on at least 1 print of preliminary plat. United
States Geodetic Survey Datum shall be used for all topographic mapping. High
water elevation and date thereof if parts of plat are wet or have been wet. In
the case of a subdivision where no new street is involved, the required
topographic map may be waived if it is deemed unnecessary by the Community
Development Director and the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Design features. The following data regarding proposed development
design features the preliminary plat shall be provided:
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and
proposed names of streets. The name of any street similar to or heretofore used
in the city shall not be permitted unless the proposed street is an extension
of an already named street in which event the name shall be used. All street
names shall be subject to the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (2)   Locations and widths of alleys, pedestrian ways, and utility
easements;
      (3)   Proposed centerline grades of all new streets and alleys, if any,
and a complete set of profiles showing both existing and proposed grade lines;
      (4)   Location, size, and approximate gradient of sewer lines;
      (5)   Layout, numbers, and approximate dimensions of lots and the number/
letter of each block;
      (6)   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches, or
school sites or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use, or to be reserved by deed or covenant for the use of all property
owners in the subdivision and any conditions of the dedication or reservation;
and
      (7)   Vicinity sketch, or a legible scale, to show the relation of the
plat to its surroundings, and surrounding zoning districts.
(Ord. 239, § 1507, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.23 FINAL PLATS: DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   Filing. The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together
with any necessary supplementary information. The original and 4 copies of the
final plat shall be submitted, 1 of the 4 copies shall be on a reproducible
medium and will be retained by the city.
   (B)   Data required. The final plat shall contain the following:
      (1)   The final plat prepared for recording purposes shall be prepared in
accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes and applicable city and
county regulations;
      (2)   Name and subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision;
      (3)   Location by section, township, range, county, and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall be 1 foot
in 7,500 feet;
      (4)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of the monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official document or the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to the reference points or monuments. Permanent markers
shall be placed at each corner of every block or portion of a block, points of
curvature and points of tangency on street lines, and at each angle point on
the boundary of the subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a
steel rod or pipe, 1/2 inch or large in diameter extending at least 3 feet
below the finished grade. In situations where conditions prohibit the placing
of markers in the locations prescribed above, offset markers will be permitted.
The exact location of all markers shall be shown on the final plat, together
with accurate interior angles, bearings, and distances. Permanent monuments
shall be placed at all quarter section points within the subdivision or on its
perimeter;
      (5)   Locations of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks, and
other features with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from
all angle points and points of curve to lot lines;
      (6)   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas other
than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use;
      (7)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. If blocks are to be numbered or
lettered, these shall be shown clearly in the center of the block;
      (8)   Building setback lines on front and side streets with dimensions;
      (9)   Name and address of developer and surveyor making the plat;
      (10)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date, and north point;
      (11)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under, and along the strips marked utility easements;
      (12)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys, and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated; and
      (13)   Statement establishing building setback lines as follows: building
setback lines are hereby established as shown on the accompanying plat and no
building or portion thereof shall be built between this line and the street
line.
   (C)   Certification required of final plats.
      (1)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas.
      (2)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor, to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor and that
monuments and markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimension and
geodetic details are correct.
      (3)   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property have been paid in full.
      (4)   Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the
signatures of the Chairperson of Planning and Zoning Commission, the Mayor, and
the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
         (a)   The form of approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission is as
follows:
      Approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Wells, this
      ________ day of ___________________________________________, 20__.
      Signed: ________________________________________________________
            Chairperson
      Attest: _________________________________________________________
            Secretary
         (b)   The form of approval by the City Council is as follows:
      Approved by the City of Wells, Minnesota, this __________________ day of
      of ________________________________________________________, 20__.
      Signed: ________________________________________________________
            Mayor
      Attest: _________________________________________________________
         (c)   The form of approval by the Community Development Director is as
follows:
      Approved by the Community Development Director, City of Wells, Minnesota,
this
      ________ day of ____________________________________________, 20__.   
      Signed: ________________________________________________________
         (d)   The forms for approval by county authorities as required.
   (D)   Supplementary documents and information.
      (1)   A complete set of street profiles showing grade lines as
constructed; and
      (2)   Copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision or any
part thereof.
(Ord. 239, § 1508, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.24 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at the intervals as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
block in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed 1,000 feet in
length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from
this maximum. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways and/or easements
through the block may be required. The width and location of the pedestrian
ways shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer and the Planning and
Zoning Commission. Blocks for business or industrial use should normally not
exceed 600 feet in length.
      (2)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow 2 tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of the width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
   (B)   Streets and alleys.
      (1)   Arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets. The arrangement
of thoroughfares and collector streets shall conform as nearly as possible to
the City Comprehensive Plan. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets normally shall
connect with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions,
or provide for future connections to adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or
provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts. The
arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their
relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions,
to run-off of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed use of the area to be served.
      (2)   Minor streets. Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage
their use by non-local traffic. Dead-end streets are prohibited, but cul-de-
sacs will be permitted where topography or other conditions justify their use.
Permanent cul-de-sacs shall normally not be longer than 500 feet, including a
terminal turn-around that shall be provided at the closed end, with a right-of-
way radius of not less than 50 feet.
      (3)   Unsubdivided plat portion. Where the plat to be submitted includes
only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the subdivider, a
tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the unsubdivided portion
shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider.
      (4)   Larger than normal building lots. When a tract is subdivided into
larger than normal building lots or parcels, the lots or parcels shall be so
arranged as to permit the logical location and openings of future streets and
appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate utility connections for
the resubdivision.
      (5)   Angle of intersection. Under normal conditions, streets shall be
laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible to right angles, except where
topography or other conditions justify variations. The minimum angle of
intersection of streets shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with an
offset of less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
      (6)   Marginal street access. Wherever the proposed subdivision contains
or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a limited access U.S. or state highway or
thoroughfare, provision may be made for a marginal access street approximately
parallel and adjacent to the boundary of the right-of-way, or for a street at a
distance suitable for the appropriated use of land between the street and
right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach connections to future grade separations,
grade crossings, or for lot depths.
      (7)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts. This requirement may be waived where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading,
and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where
justified by special conditions, such as continuation of an existing alley in
the same block, alleys will not be approved in residential districts. Alleys,
where provided, shall not be less than 20 feet wide for residential alleys and
not less than 25 feet wide for commercial and industrial alleys. Dead-end
alleys shall not be permitted, except that this requirement may be waived where
an adequate turn-around is provided.
      (8)   Half streets. Dedication of half streets will not be approved,
except where it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision
and in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, where it is
found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half
when the adjoining property is subdivided, or where it becomes necessary to
acquire the remaining half by condemnation so it may improved in the public
interest.
      (9)   Right-of-way widths.
         (a)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths for streets and thoroughfares shall be as shown in
the Comprehensive Plan, and where not shown in the Plan, the minimum right-of-
way width for streets, thoroughfares, alleys, or pedestrian ways included in
any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for each
classification as follows:
            1.   Thoroughfare - 100 feet;
            2.   Collector street - 70 feet;
            3.   Minor street - 70 feet;
            4.   Marginal access street - 50 feet;
            5.   Residential alley - 20 feet;
            6.   Industrial-commercial alley - 25 feet; and
            7.   Pedestrian way - 10 feet.
         (b)   Where existing or anticipated traffic on thoroughfares warrants
greater widths of rightway, these shall be required.
      (10)   Street grades.
         (a)   The grades in all streets, thoroughfares, collector streets,
minor streets, and alleys in any subdivision shall not be greater than the
maximum grades for each classification as follows:
            1.   Thoroughfares - 4%;
            2.   Collector street - 5%;
            3.   Minor street - 8%; and
            4.   Alley - 8%.
         (b)   In addition, there shall be a maximum grade on all streets and
thoroughfares of not less, than 5/10 of 1%.
      (11)   Street alignment. The horizontal and vertical alignment standards
on all streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Horizontal - radii of center line (There shall be a tangent
between all reversed curves of a length not less than 50 feet.):
            1.   Thoroughfare - 500 feet minimum;
            2.   Collector street - 400 feet minimum; and
            3.   Minor street - 150 feet minimum.
         (b)   Vertical - all changes in street grades shall be connected by
vertical parabolic curves the lengths as follows:
            1.   Thoroughfares 30 times the algebraic difference in the percent
of grade of the 2 adjacent slopes; and
            2.   Collector street 20 times the algebraic or minor street
difference in the percent of grade of the 2 adjacent slopes.
      (12)   Public streets. All proposed streets shall be offered for
dedication as public streets. No private streets shall be permitted, except as
set forth in other city code provisions.
   (C)   Lots.
      (1)   Frontage on public dedicated street. The minimum lot area, width,
and depth shall not be less than that established by Chapter 152, except that
in districts where a minimum area width or depth is not established, the lot
area, width, and depth shall be adequate to serve the purposes for which the
lot is to be used.
      (2)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets as defined in
Chapter 152.
      (3)   Side lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (4)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall be avoided except
where lots back on a thoroughfare or other arterial street, or where
topographic or other conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The
double frontage lots shall have an additional depth of at least 20 feet in
order to allow space for screen planting along the back lot line.
      (5)   Frontage on public dedicated street. Every lot must have at least
the minimum required frontage on a public dedicated street other than an alley.
   (D)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements for utilities. An easement for utilities, at least 10
feet wide, shall be provided along each side of a rear lot line of lots and
along any other lot line as may be deemed necessary to form a continuous right-
of-way, at least 20 feet in width. If necessary for the extension of main water
or sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of greater width may be required
along lot lines or across lots.
      (2)   Easement connections. Utility easements shall connect with
easements established in adjoining properties. These easements, when approved,
shall not thereafter be changed without the approval of the Council, by motion
upon the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   Additional easements. Additional easements for pole guys should be
provided at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged
to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys will fall alongside lot lines.
      (4)   Subdivision traversed by a water course. Where a subdivision is
traversed by a water course, drainage way, channel, or stream, a storm water
easement, drainage right-of-way or park dedication, whichever the Planning and
Zoning Commission may deem the most adequate, conforming substantially with the
lines of the water courses shall be provided, together with the further width
or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the storm water drainage of
the area. The Community Development Director shall determine the width of the
easements.
   (E)   Public sites and open spaces.
      (1)   In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due
consideration shall be given by the subdivider to the dedication or reservation
of suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds, conservation areas, or other
public or semi-public recreational areas or open spaces.
      (2)   Areas so dedicated or served shall conform as nearly as possible to
the City Comprehensive Plan. All areas to be reserved for or dedicated to
public use shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may be
determined when and in what manner the area will be dedicated to or acquired by
the appropriate agency.
(Ord. 239, § 1509, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed 7-23-
2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.25 BASIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Approval.
         (a)   Before a final plat may be approved by the Council, the owner
shall execute and submit to the Council an agreement which shall be binding on
the owner, their heirs, personal representatives, and/or assigns, that the
owner shall cause no private construction on the land, except with approval of
the City Planner, until all improvements required under this chapter have been
petitioned for, arranged for, or have been constructed.
         (b)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first
receiving a report from the Community Development Director certifying that the
described improvements, together with the agreements and required documents
will meet the minimum requirements of all applicable city code provisions.
         (c)   A certified copy of the plat restrictions shall be filed with
the County Recorder and Registrar of Deeds. The copy shall include a provision
that, in all instruments of sale or conveyance given before all street
improvements have been made, the grantee shall agree to and approve the
improvements and the assessment of their cost.
      (2)   City financing. Upon recommendation of the Planner and with the
approval of the Council, any or all of the required improvements may be
financed and assessed by the city pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be
amended from time to time. Length of assessment period and rate of interest
shall be as determined by the Council.
      (3)   Financing by developer. If deemed advisable and to be in the best
interests of the city, the Council may require the developer to finance and pay
for any and all improvements. Prior to the making of the required improvements,
the owner or subdivider shall deposit with the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer an amount equal to the Community Development Director’s estimated
cost of any or all the improvements which are to be financed by the developer,
either in cash or an indemnity bond, with sureties to the satisfaction of the
city, conditioned upon the payment of all construction costs incurred by the
city in making of the improvements and all expense incurred by the city for
engineering and legal fees and other expense in connection with the making of
the improvements. All improvements may be required to be contracted through the
city.
   (B)   Improvements. The following improvements shall be constructed as
provided for in this section. The Community Development Director shall approve
programming of improvements.
      (1)   City obligation. The city will construct, furnish, and install at
city expense, the following improvements according to city specifications.
Furnishing of these improvements shall be commensurate with available city
funds for the work and according to programs and priorities as established by
the Council. If the developer would desire any of these improvements sooner
than the city would be able to furnish them, then the costs of the following
improvements shall be paid for by the developer.
         (a)   Street lighting. The city shall construct street lighting,
preferably after curb and gutter has been installed. If the developer desires
additional or other type of lighting, the developer shall pay the increased
cost.
         (b)   Signs. The city shall install street name signs and traffic-
control signs.
      (2)   Obligation of the developer. The developer shall pay the
proportionate amount of the following improvements on or for the subdivision or
development. Financing shall be according to division (A) above.
         (a)   Site grading. The subdivider shall accomplish necessary site
grading.
         (b)   Street grading. The subdivider shall accomplish street grading
for the full width of the right-of-way. If no site grading is to be
accomplished, the street grading will be included with subsequent street
improvements. Street grading shall precede any underground work. Where street
grading is not to be immediately followed by street paving, the developer may
be required to provide permanent grade markers at the right-of-way line of all
streets of a standard approved by the Community Development Director.
         (c)   Street improvements. Street improvements including base, curb
and gutter, boulevard sodding, inlets and leads, according to standard city
specifications or as approved by the Community Development Director, shall be
constructed. All required underground work should have preceded any permanent
street improvements. The County Engineer shall approve any improvements on a
county road. Temporary construction may at the discretion of the Community
Development Director, be required, for just cause, on any street, streets, or
portion of street. Reconstruction or alteration in any way of existing streets
affected by the plat or improvements thereupon shall be subject to the approval
of the Community Development Director. All costs incurred, for either temporary
access of reconstruction, shall be borne by the owner or subdivider. Half
streets, if accepted, shall be improved as directed by the Community
Development Director.
         (d)   Sanitary sewer. Where city sewer is, or will be available at the
boundary of the subdivision, it shall be constructed according to city
specifications. The cost of any required pumping stations, deemed necessary by
the Engineer, shall be assessed against the benefitting property. Where it is
neither practical nor economical for the city to extend city sewer, private
sewage disposal facilities shall be constructed according to city and state
specifications. Consideration shall be given to future availability of city
sewer in the installations. The information shall be recorded on the plat and
in each deed so affected.
         (e)   Sanitary sewer subdivider expense. The subdivider shall install
all sanitary sewers at their own expense and according to city specifications.
         (f)   Water main. Where city water is, or will be, available at the
boundary of the subdivision, it shall be constructed according to city
specifications. Main sizing shall be by the Wells Public Utilities
Superintendent. All required hydrants and valves are to be included in the
construction. Where it is neither practical nor economical for the city to
extend city water, private water supplies shall be constructed according to
city and state specifications.
         (g)   Trees. Boulevard trees, if desired, shall be installed by the
owner or developer as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 239, § 1510, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed 7-23-
2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.26 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Registered land surveys. It is the intention of this chapter that all
registered land surveys under the jurisdiction of this chapter should be
presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission in the form of a preliminary
plat in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter for preliminary
plats and that the Planning and Zoning Commission shall first approve the
arrangements, sizes, and relationship of proposed tracts in the registered land
surveys, and that tracts to be used as easements or roads should be so
dedicated. Unless the approvals have been obtained from the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council in accordance with the standards set forth in this
chapter, building permits will be withheld buildings on tracts which have been
so subdivided by registered land surveys, and the city may refuse to take over
tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair, or maintain the tracts unless
so approved.
   (B)   Conveyance by metes and bounds. No conveyance of 1 or more parcels in
which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be made or
recorded if the parcels described in the conveyance are less that 5 acres in
area and 300 feet in width unless the parcel was a separate parcel of record at
the effective date of this chapter. Building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by this method, and
the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair, or maintain the tracts.
(Ord. 239, § 1511, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.27 VARIANCES, COMPLIANCE, AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General conditions. The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend a
variance from provisions of this chapter, when, in its opinion, unusual
hardship on the land may result strict compliance. In granting any variance,
the Commission shall prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to or
desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, as required in this
section, the Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use
of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to
reside in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision of traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted
unless the Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property so that the application of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the applicant's land;
      (2)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner; and/or
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or in to other property in the territory in which the property
is situated.
   (B)   Applications required. Applications for any variance shall be
submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for consideration Commission, stating fully and clearly all facts relied
upon by the petitioner and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other
additional data which may aid the Commission analysis of the proposed project.
The plans for the development shall include restrictions or other legal
provisions necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the Plan.
   (C)   Compliance. No building permit shall be issued by the city with
respect to the lot in a subdivision, as defined in this chapter, until the plat
thereof has been recor the office of the Register of Deeds.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It is unlawful for any person
to trade or otherwise convey or offer to sell, trade, or otherwise convey any
lot or part land as part of, or in conformity with any plan, plat, or replat of
any subdivision and jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat, or
replat shall have first been the office of the Register of Deeds of the County.
      (2)   Misrepresentations as to construction, supervision, or inspection
improvements. It is unlawful for any person owning an addition or subdivision
of land within the city to represent that any improvement upon any of the
streets, alleys, or avenue addition or subdivision or any sewer in the addition
or subdivision has been constructed to the plans and specifications approved by
the Council, or has been supervised or inspect city, when the improvements have
not been so constructed, supervised, or inspected.
(Ord. 239, § 1512, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Intent and purpose
   
152.002   Title
   
152.003   Definitions
   
152.004   Interpretation
   
152.005   Compatibility with other regulations
   
152.006   Conformance required
   
152.007   Maintenance of minimum requirements
   
152.008   Platting requirements
   
152.009   Conveyance and transfer
Establishment of Zones
   
152.020   Classification of zones
   
152.021   Location of zones
   
152.022   Zoning map
   
152.023   Zone boundaries
   
152.024   Annexed territory
   
152.025   Crossing zoning boundaries
R-1 General Residential District Zone
   
152.035   Purpose
   
152.036   Permitted uses
   
152.037   Conditional uses
   
152.038   Design standards
R-2 Multi-Family Residential District Zone
   
152.050   Purpose
   
152.051   Permitted uses
   
152.052   Conditional uses
   
152.053   Performance standards
C-1 Central Business District Zone
   
152.065   Purpose
   
152.066   Permitted uses
   
152.067   Conditional uses
   
152.068   Performance standards
   
152.069   Building standards
C-2 General Business District Zone
   
152.080   Purpose
   
152.081   Permitted uses
   
152.082   Conditional uses
   
152.083   Performance standards
I-1 General Industrial District Zone
   
152.095   Purpose
   
152.096   Permitted uses
   
152.097   Conditional uses
   
152.098   Performance standards
A Agricultural District Zone
   
152.110   Purpose
   
152.111   Permitted uses
   
152.112   Conditional uses
   
152.113   Performance standards
General Performance Standards
   
152.125   Compliance required
   
152.126   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
152.127   Home occupations
   
152.128   Parking
   
152.129   Fire hazards
   
152.130   Noise
   
152.131   Vibration
   
152.132   Air pollution
   
152.133   Refuse
   
152.134   Electrical disturbances
   
152.135   Signs
   
152.136   Awnings, marquees, and canopies
   
152.137   Building permits
   
152.138   Relocation of structures
   
152.139   Private swimming pool
   
152.140   Demolition permits
Zoning Administration
   
152.155   Zoning Administrator
   
152.156   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
152.157   Duties of Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
152.158   Circumstances for granting a variance
   
152.159   Variances and appeals procedure
   
152.160   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.161   Duties of Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.162   Conditional uses
   
152.163   Conditional use procedure
   
152.164   Amendment procedure
   
152.165   Validity
   
152.166   Interim use permits
Manufactured Home Parks
   
152.185   Permits
   
152.186   Licenses
   
152.187   Inspection of mobile home parks
   
152.188   Notices, hearings, and orders
   
152.189   Environmental
   
152.190   Refuse handling
   
152.191   Insect and rodent control
   
152.192   Fuel supply and storage
   
152.193   Fire protections
   
152.194   Responsibilities of the park management
   
152.195   Existing nonconforming uses
 
   
152.998   Violations
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience,
and general welfare;
   (B)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational, and public areas;
   (C)   Providing adequate light, air, and convenience of access of property;
   (D)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city; and
   (E)   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them.
(Ord. 239, § 100, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Wells City Zoning
Code except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as this chapter.
(Ord. 239, § 101, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, words
in the singular number shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall
include the singular.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building that is subordinate to the principal
building, which serves a purpose that is customarily associated with the
principal use, and which is located only in the rear or side yard of the
principal structure or use. Examples of ACCESSORY BUILDINGS include storage
shed, greenhouses and detached residential garages.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is subordinate to a principal
building or structure, which serves a purpose that is clearly incidental to the
principal use of the lot. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include gazebos,
patios, storage enclosures, fences, signs, detached carports, driveways and
parking lots.
      ADDITION. Any alteration to a structure which results in any increase in
the structure’s footprint.
      ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides
the service of applying paint or other substance whether transparent or non-
transparent to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. A business engaging in the barter, rental, or sale of
items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tapes,
videotapes, or motion picture film, if the shop is not open to the public
generally but only to 1 or more classes of the public, excluding any minor by
reason of age or if a substantial or significant portion of the items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT CABARET. An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, if the establishment excludes minors by virtue of age or if the
dancing or other live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the performance, depiction, or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENTS. A companionship establishment which
excludes minors by reason of age or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   A business engaged in any of the following activities or which
utilizes any of the following business procedures or practices either:
            1.   Any business which is conducted exclusively for the patronage
of adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage there
at either by law or by the operators of the business; and/or
            2.   Any other business which offers its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
         (b)   Specifically included in the term, but without limitation, are
adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult saunas, adult companionship
establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses,
adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotel and motels,
and adult body painting studios.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor as required to be
licensed or a health club which restricts minors by reason of age and which
provides the services of massage, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business premises within an enclosed
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting visual
media material if the business as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision to customers of figure models who are so provided with the intent of
providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and who
engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by the customers.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at any 1 time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. A business premises within an enclosed
building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting visual media
material if the business as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of
age or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which simulate human genitals or devices which are designed for
sexual stimulation.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation, or reducing utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for the growing or production of field
crops, livestock, and livestock products for the production of income.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare not more than 20 feet in width, for the use
of vehicles, which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for its use.
      ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, partitions, columns, beam, or girders. The enlargement of the
size or height of a building shall be construed to be a structural alteration.
      ATTACHED. Having 1 or more walls common with a principal building, or
joined to a principal building by a covered porch or passageway, the roof of
which is a part or extrusion of a principal building. Or accessory structures
within 5 feet of principal structure.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. Measured from the average existing grade across the
front building line (“point of measurement”), measured at major corners of the
building, to:
         (a)   The highest midpoint of sloped roof systems; or
         (b)   The top of the highest parapet of flat roof systems
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8dcc564d8f596cc2655321af4262222e4835d74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-889.jpg]
 
      CARPORT. A single-story covered parking accessory structure that is open
on 2 or more sides and is less than 600 square feet.
      DWELLING. A structure built and designed for human occupancy. This
includes manufactured homes and underground homes as well as conventionally
built structures. This excludes a tent or cabin trailer.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling or portion thereof, designed for
occupancy by 3 or more families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing 1 dwelling unit
and having no wall in common with an adjacent house(s) designed for occupancy
by 1 family unit.
      DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing 2 dwelling units and
designed for occupancy by 2 families or housekeeping units living independently
of each other.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling occupied or intended to be
occupied as separate living quarters by a single family as defined herein
      EARTH SHELTER. A building constructed so that more than 50% of the
exterior surface area of the building, excluding garages or other accessory
buildings, is covered with earth and the building code standards are satisfied.
Partially completed buildings shall not be considered earth sheltered.
      ENTERTAINMENT, ADULT. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters,
adult minimotion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult saunas, adult
companionship establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling  studios, adult hotels
or motels, adult body painting studios, and other establishments. The
development to be developed at standards that will not impair the traffic
carrying capabilities of abutting roads and highways, will to result in strip
commercial development and to separate from residential areas and in certain
cases from each other certain commercial uses which have been determined to
contribute to a skid row or blighting development pattern in adjacent areas.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      FAMILY. A group of individuals related by blood, marriage, legal
adoption, or legal guardianship, living together as 1 housekeeping unit using 1
kitchen and providing meals or lodging to not more than 3 unrelated persons
living together as 1 housekeeping unit using 1 kitchen.
      FARMING. The cultivating or pasturing of a parcel of land and the raising
of domestic livestock or fowl for commercial purposes. It can include retail
sale of goods produced on the premises for example plant nurseries and
vegetable stands could qualify, but not if they sell shipped in goods.
      FENCE. Any artificially constructed barrier of any materials or
combination of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
      HANDICAPPED PARKING STALL. Any parking stall so designated by state
statute and shall measure 10 feet wide and 20 feet long.
      HEDGE. A dense barrier comprised of planted vegetation designed to
enclose or screen areas of land.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the average natural grade
to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck tine of a
mansard roof, or to the main height level between eaves and ridge or gable,
hip, or gambrel roofs.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An acceptation or profession normally and customarily
carried on in a dwelling unit primarily by members of the family residing in
the dwelling unit and does not change the residential character of the site.
The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the use of the structure as
a dwelling. A maximum 2 square foot sign stating the name and address of the
home occupation shall be the only indication that the structure is used for
something other than residential use.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Artificial structures such as pavements (roads,
sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, and rooftops) that are covered by
impenetrable materials such as asphalt, concrete, brick, and stone. Soils
compacted by urban development are also highly impervious. IMPERVIOUS SURFACES
shed rainfall and associated surface pollutants forcing the water to run off
directly into nearby storm drains and then into streams, rivers and lakes.
      INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular area formed by the intersection
of streets and alleys along the curb line or edge of pavement/gravel, whichever
is closer to the property, and a line joining the points 30 feet distant from
the intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8dcc564d8f596cc2655321af4262222e4835d74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-891.jpg]
 
      LOT. One unit of a recorded plat or subdivision, which has frontage on a
public street and used or intended to be used as a building site under the
terms of this chapter.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot
exclusive of streets and public or private easements or right-of-way providing
access to other lot not to exclude utility easements.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on 2 or more streets other than an alley, at
their intersection.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from all streets other
than the alley. In the case of a corner lot or a through lot, each street has a
front lot line.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or other shaped lot, a
line 10 feet in length within the lot paralleled to and at a maximum distance
from the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
      LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines
ordinarily measured parallel to the front lot line. In case of a lot of
irregular shape, the main width shall be the lot width.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. Structure, not affixed to or part of real estate,
transportable in 1 or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is 8 body
feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on
site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained in it. A manufactured home shall
also be a dwelling as defined by M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time and shall be constructed in compliance with the Manufactured
Home Building Code established by M.S. §§ 327.31 and 327.32, as they may be
amended from time to time.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A site, lot, field, or tract of land where 2 or
more mobile homes are located within 500 feet of 1 another under the same
ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space for rent
to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental of use of
facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade or
patronage of the person. The term MANUFACTURED HOME PARK shall not be construed
to include mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other structures temporarily
maintained by any individual, educational institution, or company on their own
premises and used exclusively to house their own labor or students.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, as defined by M.S. § 327.14, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, are permitted by M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1b, as it may
be amended from time to time, as a conditional use in all zoning districts that
allow the construction or placement of a building used or intended to be used
by 2 or more families. Thus, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS are allowed by law as a
conditional use in zoning districts R-1 (since multiple-family dwellings are a
conditional use in that district), R-2 (where they are specifically mentioned),
C-2 (since multiple-family dwellings are a conditional use in that district),
and in A (since dwellings are a conditional use in that district).
      MOBILE HOME. A vehicular or portable structure which is constructed for
movement on the public highways; which is designed for use as a residence but
which may or may not meet the length and width requirements of a manufactured
home.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A lawful existing structure or use at the
time this chapter or any amendment thereto becomes effective, which does not
conform with currently applicable use regulations, but which compiled with use
regulations in effect at the time the use was established.
      PARKING FACILITY. An area on a lot or within a building lot, or both,
including 1 or more parking spaces together with driveways, aisles, turning and
maneuvering areas, clearances, and similar features, and meeting in the
requirements established by this chapter. The term PARKING FACILITY shall
include parking lots, garages, and parking structures.
      PARKING SPACE. An area on a lot or within a building lot, used or
intended for use for parking of a motor vehicle, having permanent means of
access to and from a public street or alley independently of any other parking
space, and located in a parking facility meeting the requirements established
by this chapter. The term PARKING SPACE is equivalent to the term PARKING STALL
and does not include driveways, aisles, or other features comprising a parking
facility.
      PERVIOUS SURFACE. Porous surface designed to allow percolation or
infiltration of storm water through the surface into the soil below where the
water is naturally filtered and pollutants are removed.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A residential development where dwelling units
are grouped into clusters, allowing an appreciable amount of land for open
space in accordance with a prearranged site plan and where the common open
space is owned by the homeowner and usually maintained by a homeowner
association.
      PORCH, OPEN. A roofed structure, open on 2 or more sides, projecting from
the front, sides, or rear wall of the building.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle towed or self-propelled an its own
chassis or attached to the chassis of another vehicle and designed for or used
for temporary dwelling recreational or sporting purposes. The term RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE shall include, but shall not be limited to, travel trailers, pick-up
campers, camping trailers, motor coach homes, converted trucks aid buses, and
boats and boat trailers.
      RESIDENTIAL CONVENIENCE SERVICE. A use or activity of a commercial nature
conducted as an accessory use to multiple family residential or mobile home
park residential use, and intended solely for the convenience of residents
thereof
      ROOMS HABITABLE. A habitable room which provides a required area and
window area to provide necessary light and ventilation of occupants and shall
be clean and sanitary at all times.
      SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a truck-tractor that a considerable part of its own weight or
that of its load rests upon and is carried by the truck-tractor and includes a
trailer drawn by a truck-tractor semi-trailer combination.
      SETBACK LINES. A line within a lot parallel to and measured from a
corresponding lot line, forming the boundary of a required yard and defining
that minimum distance between the building and property line which buildings
and structures may not be placed.
      SITE PLAN. A plan prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning all of the buildings, structures, and uses, and the principal site
development features including parking, access, and landscaping and screening,
proposed for a specific parcel of land.
      SOFT-SIDED STORAGE ENCLOSURES. A single-story accessory structure with a
rigid frame and flexible walls and/or roof.
      SOLID WASTE DUMPSTERS OR REFUSE CONTAINERS. Solid waste container capable
of holding 1 or more yards of waste.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Anatomical areas consisting of:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Activities consisting of the following:
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal, or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts;
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint or any such person;
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
         (g)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
      STORY. The part of any building comprised between any floor and the floor
or attic next above; the first story of a building is the lowest story having
at least 1/2 of its height above the highest level of adjoining ground.
      STREET. A public right-of-way for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
       STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. A change to the supporting members of a structure
including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders, or
any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
      STRUCTURE. In general, anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires its permanent location on the ground (or its attachment to something
having a permanent location on the ground), including but not limited to:
gazebos, patios, storage enclosures, carports, driveways, parking lots, garden
and retaining walls over 3 feet in height, fences signs, kiosks, or similar
uses. The term STRUCTURE does not include the word BUILDING unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of land into smaller parcels through the use of
a plat, registered land survey or metes and bounds description.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational
bathing that contains water over 24 inches (610 mm) deep. This includes in-
ground, above-ground, and on-ground swimming pools, and fixed-in-place wading
pools.
      TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling unit having a common wall with or abutting 1 or
more adjoining dwelling units in a townhouse group.
      TOWNHOUSE GROUP. Two or more contiguous townhouses having common or
abutting walls.
      TOWNHOUSE LOT. The portion of the total development site of a townhouse
residential use intended for separate ownership as the location of a single
townhouse and associated private yard area.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. A motor vehicle designed used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of
the vehicle and load drawn; and a motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles used exclusively for transporting motor vehicles.
      USE. The purpose, for which land or a structure is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
      YARD. An open space on a lot, which is unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the front lot line from the front lot line to the nearest point
of a building or other structure. A parcel can have more than 1 front yard
according to the definitions herein.
      YARD, REAR. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot line to the nearest point
of a building or other structure.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the front and rear yards measured horizontally
at right angles from the side lot line to the nearest point of a building or
other structure.
   (C)   The following illustration clarifies and explains selected
definitions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8dcc564d8f596cc2655321af4262222e4835d74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-836.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8dcc564d8f596cc2655321af4262222e4835d74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-838.gif]
 
(Ord. 239, § 102, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-9-2015; Am. Ord.
2015-02, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 152.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, and welfare.
(Ord. 239, § 200, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.005 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Where the conditions of this chapter are incompatible with conditions
imposed by any other federal, state, or county law, ordinance, statute, or
regulation, the regulations which are more restrictive shall prevail.
(Ord. 239, § 201, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.006 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, demolished,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered nor shall any building or land be
used except for the purpose permitted in the district in which the building or
land is located.
(Ord. 239, § 202, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.007 MAINTENANCE OF MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   No lot area, yard, or other open space existing on or alter the effective
date of this chapter shall be reduced below the minimum required for it by this
chapter, and no lot area, yard, or other open space which is required by this
chapter for 1 use shall be used as the required lot area yard or other space
for another use.
(Ord. 239, § 203, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.008 PLATTING REQUIREMENTS.
   No building permit will be issued for any land parcel subdivided after the
effective date of this chapter that has not been officially platted in
accordance with state law and recorded in the County Recorder's office, with
the following exceptions:
   (A)   Parcels that are 5 acres or larger with no public road or right-of-way
involved; and
   (B)   Simple splitting of a previously platted parcel where all of the
residential parcels meet minimum lot size requirements for the zoning district
in which they are located.
(Ord. 239, § 204, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.009 CONVEYANCE AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   No lot or parcel of land shall be transferred or conveyed and no
building permit shall be issued for the construction of a new structure or the
alteration or addition to an existing structure, unless the owner thereof shall
first cause a physical survey of the lot or parcel of land to be made by
registered land surveyor, which survey shall establish the boundary lines of
the lot or parcel of land by the placing of permanent monuments at the corners
of the lot or parcel of land, in accordance with recognized land surveying
principles.
   (B)   (1)   Any transfer or conveyance transaction shall be exempt from the
survey requirement of this section where the consideration therefore is $500 or
less.
      (2)   Upon application by the property owner, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may, after investigation of the facts, exempt the following
transactions from the survey requirements this section.
         (a)   Any transfer or conveyance of any lot or parcel or any
construction on any lot or parcel where the owner is able to locate existing
corner monuments as follows:
            1.   All but 1 of the corner markers can be located, and the parcel
has more than 3 corners; and/or
            2.   Where the parcel on 2 sides thereof abuts on streets, both of
which have been improved with curb and gutter, and all corner markers not
located on a street right-of-way line can be located.
         (b)   Any transfer or conveyance of any parcel which has not been
platted into lots; any parcel which is bounded by streets or alleys on all
sides thereof; and of any parcel which is located in a commercial district
where the lots and adjoining lots are improved with buildings that are built
completely to the apparent property line.
         (c)   Any construction on a lot or parcel where the property line can
be established to a reasonable degree of certainty, and the proposed
construction exceeds the applicable setback requirements by at least 5 feet.
         (d)   Any construction on a lot or parcel where the property line can
be established to a reasonable degree of certainty, the proposed construction
exceeds the applicable setback requirements by at least 2 feet, and the
adjoining landowner has signed a written approval and waiver in a form
established by the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the case of a boundary
line, which abuts on a street or alley, the adjoining property owner shall be
considered to be the Superintendent of Streets.
         (e)   Any construction on a lot or parcel where the Planning and
Zoning Commission determines that the survey requirement imposes an undue
hardship. In making the determination, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
consider the following factors:
            1.   The nature of the proposed construction in terms of size,
cost, and permanency; and/or
            2.   The degree of uncertainty which exists with respect to the
location of the relevant boundary lines.
(Ord. 239, § 205, passed 1-22-2000)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
§ 152.020 CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The land areas of the city have been divided into zoning
districts that vary in their regulation of land uses.
      (2)   Land uses activities must conform to the specific zone regulations
of the zoning district as well as the pertinent overall regulations found in
other portions of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following zones are hereby
established:
      (1)   R-1 General Residential District Zone;
      (2)   R-2 Multi-Family Residential District Zone;
      (3)   C-1 Central Business District Zone;
      (4)   C-2 General Business District Zone;
      (5)   I-1 General Industrial District Zone; and
      (6)   A Agricultural District Zone.
(Ord. 239, § 300, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.021 LOCATION OF ZONES.
   (A)   The boundaries for the zones listed in this chapter are indicated on
the zoning map which is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   The boundaries shall be modified in accordance with zoning map
amendments which shall be adopted by reference.
(Ord. 239, § 301, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.022 ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map or zoning map amendment shall be dated with the effective
date of the ordinance that adopts the map or map amendment. A certified print
of the adopted map or map amendment shall be maintained in the office of the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 239, § 302, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.023 ZONE BOUNDARIES.
   Unless otherwise specified, zone boundaries are section lines; subdivision
lines; lot lines; center line of streets or railroad rights-of way; or the
lines extended.
(Ord. 239, § 303, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.024 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be zoned in
accordance with the land use plan. Consideration of zoning other than in
accordance with the land use plan should not be done without amending the land
use plan.
(Ord. 239, § 304, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.025 CROSSING ZONING BOUNDARIES.
   Properties that cross zoning boundaries will follow the zoning requirements
of the zone that most closely matches the current use as determined by the
Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 239, § 305, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
R-1 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ZONE
§ 152.035 PURPOSE.
   The R-1 District is intended to be comprised of single-family dwellings,
augmented with compatible medium density dwellings and appropriate accessory
uses.
(Ord. 239, § 400, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.036 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   One and 2-family dwellings;
   (B)   Home occupations; and/or
   (C)   Accessory buildings and structures.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 152.037 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Multiple-family dwellings up to 4 units in a single structure;
   (B)   Community or government buildings;
   (C)   Schools, both public and private;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Hospitals and nursing homes;
   (F)   Planned unit developments;
   (G)   Utility structures;
   (H)   Recreational facilities;
   (I)   State licensed residential facilities, other than a hospital or
nursing home, serving up to 16 people; and/or
   (J)   Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be
similar in scope and intensity those listed above.
(Ord. 239, § 402, passed 1-22-2000)
   (K)   Two-family semidetached and cluster dwellings on separate lots in
accordance with the following conditions:
      (1)   Each of the lots shall be equal in area or as near equal in area as
is reasonably possible.
      (2)   Each lot shall contain no less the 1/2 the minimum land area
requirement for a 2-family dwelling.
      (3)   Except for setbacks along the common property line or side yards on
cluster dwelling, all other setbacks and yard requirements shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements of the R-1 single-family district.
      (4)   Any subdivision of a lot or parcel shall be accomplished in
accordance with the subdivision regulations in Chapter 151.
(Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.038 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Height standards.
      (1)   All dwellings must be at least 14 feet in height.
      (2)   No single-family or 2-family dwelling shall exceed 2½ stories or 40
feet in height.
   (B)   Building standards. All dwellings shall have a minimum width of 20
feet.
      (1)   All dwellings shall be placed on a permanent foundation constructed
of masonry, concrete, or treated wood with footings supporting the foundation
constructed of solid masonry, pea, rock or concrete placed at a minimum depth
of 42 inches below the finish grade.
      (2)   All dwelling and accessory building exterior siding must be of
conventional exterior material. Sheet metal siding is permitted. All dwellings
that use sheet metal siding must use hidden fasteners. All dwellings shall have
a pitched roof covered in shingle, tile, or approved metal and have eaves of
not less than 6 inches. All dwellings must be built in conformance with
Minnesota Statutes.
   (C)   Lot standards.
 
Location           1-Family 2-Family              Accessory            Other
                            12,000 plus 2,000 for
Lot area           10,500   each dwelling unit    -                    14,000
                            over 2
Lot width min. at
front yard setback 75       85                    -                    85
line
Lot depth          140      140                   -                    140
Front yard and                                    Behind the principal
corner side yard   25       25                    structure            30
setback
Rear yard setback  35       35                    5; 8 from alley      35
Interior side yard 10       10                    5; 8 from alley      15
setback
 
   (D)   Other lot requirements.
      (1)   Where adjacent structures within the same block have front yard
minimum setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum set back
shall be the average of the adjacent structures and the required setback. In no
case shall the front yard setback be less than 15 feet or exceed 30 feet.
      (2)   Not more than 35% of the lot area shall be occupied by impervious
surfaces and/or buildings and structures. Multiple contiguous lots under common
ownership can be combined for this purpose otherwise the 35% is applied per
lot.
   (E)   Privacy fences and landscaping. Fences, hedges, trees and shrubs in
all zoning districts may occupy any part of a required yard except that on
corner lots there shall be an intersection sight triangle area formed by the
intersection along streets and alleys along the curb line or edge of pavement/
gravel, whichever is closer to the property, and a line joining the points 30
feet distant from the intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d8dcc564d8f596cc2655321af4262222e4835d74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-893.jpg]
 
      (1)   Residential districts. Fences may be erected to the following
height and opacity:
         (a)   Front yard. Maximum 4 feet and no more than 50% solid; and
         (b)   Side and rear yard. Maximum 6 feet.
         (c)   Underground perimeter fencing systems designed to confine pets
to an area of a lot will be permitted, provided setback regulations are met.
         (d)   Fences in these areas require zoning approval and a land use
permit.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial districts. 
         (a)   Fences may be erected to a height of 8 feet.
         (b)   Fences that are electrically charged or have a security arm with
barbed wire will require issuance of a conditional use permit.
         (c)   Fences in these areas require zoning approval and a building
permit.
      (3)   All zoning districts.
         (a)   All fences, hedges, trees and shrubs may be placed up to the lot
line on the owner’s property. Hedges, trees or shrubs having a ground spread at
maturity greater than 2 feet must be planted with a setback adequate to
accommodate the anticipated mature ground spread
         (b)   Hedges, trees and shrubs adjacent to lot lines along front yard
areas shall not exceed 4 feet in height.
         (c)   Fences, hedges, trees and shrubs placed on a rear yard abutting
an alley shall be placed at least 8 feet from the alley to allow for property
maintenance and snow removal.
         (d)   All fences shall have an entrance either gated or open of not
less than 36 inches in width allowing access and egress.
         (e)   Fences, hedges, trees and shrubs shall not be placed in
easements.
         (f)   The lot area remaining after providing for off-street parking
and loading, sidewalks, driveways, building site, and/or other requirements
shall be planted and maintained in grass, sod or other acceptable vegetation or
treatment generally used in landscaping.
   (F)   Private garages, accessory buildings, and structures.
      (1)   Generally. The standards of this section apply to accessory
buildings and structures. accessory buildings and structures are counted in the
calculation of lot/building coverage.
      (2)   Approvals. Zoning approval and building and/or land use permits are
required to contrast accessory buildings and structures within city limits.
      (3)   Timing of construction. No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed unless the principal building has already been constructed or is
under construction simultaneously with the accessory building or structure.
      (4)   Front and corner side yard.
         (a)   No detached garage shall be located nearer the front lot line
than the principal structure.
         (b)   No detached accessory building or structure except fences and
driveways shall be located in the front or corner side yard.
      (5)   Attached accessory buildings or structures. Accessory buildings or
structures that are structurally attached to a principal building or are 5 feet
or less from the principal building shall be considered to be attached and
shall conform to all standards that are applicable to the principal building.
      (6)   Access. Access to detached garages shall be not less than 12 feet
wide and when designed to be entered directly from a side street, the distance
between the vehicle entrance door and the lot line or sidewalk shall be 18 feet
or more.
      (7)   Accessory building height. Unless otherwise specified, no accessory
building or structure shall exceed the height of the principal building.
      (8)   Accessory building wall height. Accessory buildings shall not have
a wall height in excess of 10 feet measured from the top of the floor to the
ridge plate or top of the grade to the highest point for soft-sided structures.
      (9)   Footprint. In addition to not exceeding the 35% impervious rule, no
detached accessory building shall cover an area that is larger than 1,200
square feet.
      (10)   Hard and soft-sided storage sheds and enclosures. 
         (a)   Storage sheds and enclosures over 150 square feet shall be
anchored to a footing or concrete slab with a suitable connection of a breaking
strength equal to or exceeding 2,000 pounds and the structure shall be provided
a surfaced floor.
         (b)   Storage sheds and enclosures less than 150 square feet and less
than 10 feet in height do not require a foundation but shall be anchored to the
ground.
      (11)   Residential occupancy. Residential occupancy of accessory
buildings or structures that are not constructed and approved for residential
use is prohibited.
      (12)   Easements and drainage. Accessory buildings and structures shall
not be located in easements and cannot alter or block the flow of storm water
drainage.
   (G)   Supplemental standards.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies, and eaves may extend into a required lot at a
distance not exceed 4 feet.
      (2)   Fire escapes may not extend into a required front yard. Fire
escapes may extend into the rear yard for a distance of 6 feet.
      (3)   Un-enclosed or roofed decks or porches may extend 15 feet into the
rear yard and 6 feet into the front yard.
      (4)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
      (5)   Exterior storage of all material; excluding lawn furniture, animal
shelters, recreational vehicles with current license plates, firewood being
used on premise, or construction material in current use not exceeding 6
months, shall be stored within an accessory building, or be fully screened so
as not to be visible from adjoining or adjacent property and streets.
      (6)   Solid waste dumpsters or refuse containers.
         (a)   Dumpsters in residential areas. In order to protect the health
and safety of the general public, all dumpsters located in areas zoned as
residential districts under this chapter shall:
            1.   Have a lid or other covering over the top of the dumpster;
and/or
            2.   Be completely surrounded by a fence or wall not less than 4
feet in height, which shall be so constructed as not to have openings, holes or
gaps larger than 4 inches in vertical or horizontal direction, except for doors
and gates. The fence shall be of a type not readily climbed by children. A
dwelling or accessory building may be used as part of such enclosure or other
structure to prevent unauthorized or unsafe access.
(Am. #4, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 22-03, passed 4-25-2022)
         (b)   Frequency of collection. Garbage in dumpsters within residential
districts shall be emptied at least once per week, unless the dumpster is
permitted under division (G)(6)(c) below.
         (c)   Exceptions. In the following circumstances dumpsters shall be
permitted to exist without complying with divisions (G)(6)(a) and (G)(6)(b)
above:
            1.   On any lot or parcel for which a valid building permit has
been granted, for the duration of that building permit; and/or
            2.   On any lot or parcel where the owner has been granted an
limited dumpster permit for the disposal of garbage. No lot or parcel shall be
granted a limited dumpster permit more than twice per year. A limited dumpster
permit shall be valid for up to 30 days.
         (d)   Existing dumpsters. All existing dumpsters within residential
districts shall comply with the enclosure requirements in division (G)(6)(a)
above within 2 years of adoption. Existing dumpsters shall comply with division
(G)(6)(b) upon adoption.
         (e)   Location. Solid waste dumpsters or refuse containers must be
located on private property. Under no circumstances can dumpsters or refuse
containers be located on roads, rights-of-way, or alleys.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
(Ord. 239, § 403, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 7, Second Series, passed 9-24-
2007; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-9-2015; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-23-2015)
Penalty, see §
10.99
R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ZONE
§ 152.050 PURPOSE.
   The R-2 District is intended to permit the reuse of infill lots in the older
developed areas of the community, and to allow for greater density in the form
of multi-family, townhouse, condominium, and manufactured dwellings. The goal
is to preserve some land that can be developed to serve the city's multi-family
needs without creating incompatible situations. To protect this goal, permitted
uses are few and conditional uses should be weighed in view of their impact on
future multi-family development.
(Ord. 239, § 500, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.051 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All permitted uses of the R-1 District; and
   (B)   Multi-family uses up to 8 units per structure.
(Ord. 239, § 501, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 152.052 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All conditional uses of the R-1 District;
   (B)   Professional offices and low intensity service operations;
   (C)   Manufactured home parks that are licensed by the Minnesota Department
of Health under provisions of state statutes and rules; and manufactured home
subdivisions which conform to lot standards and requirements of Chapter 151.
( Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 152.053 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Design standards. All design standards of the R-1 District apply
to the R-2 District with the addition of:
      (2)   Manufactured home building standards. An approved manufactured home
shall comply with all R-1 design standards. In addition, all manufactured homes
not placed on a permanent foundation shall be skirted in a manner approved by
the City Building Official. Manufactured homes shall conform to the
requirements of the section that addresses manufactured home park.
   (B)   Lot standards.
Location 1-Family 2-Family Multi-Family Accessory All Other
Location           1-Family 2-Family Multi-Family     Accessory       All Other
                                     18,000 and
Lot area           7,000    12,000   additional 2,000 -               14,000
                                     for each unit
                                     above 3
Lot width min. at
front yard setback 50       75       85               -               75
line
Lot depth          140      140      -                -               140
Location           1-Family 2-Family Multi-Family     Accessory       All Other
Front yard and                                        Behind the
corner side yard   20       20       25               principal       25
                                                      structure
Rear yard          35       35       35               5; 8 from alley 35
Interior side yard 10       10       15               5; 8 from alley 15
 
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-23-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT ZONE
§ 152.065 PURPOSE.
   The C-1 Zone is the downtown area that has traditionally served as the
commercial core of the city. There is a mixture of retail businesses, eating
and drinking establishments, offices, and other uses. Businesses are
pedestrian-oriented with buildings close together and little off-street
parking.
(Ord. 239, § 600, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.066 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Retail businesses, stores, and shops;
   (B)   Repair and maintenance services;
   (C)   Offices and professional services;
   (D)   Eating and drinking establishments;
   (E)   Bowling allies, pool halls, video game arcades;
   (F)   Accessory uses;
   (G)   Community/governmental buildings and public parks; and
   (H)   Housing above the first floor.
(Ord. 239, § 601, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.067 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Fast food and drive-in establishments;
   (B)   Convenience stores;
   (C)   Automobile and implement sales;
   (D)   Gas stations and auto repair, excluding salvage yards;
   (E)   Lumber yards and warehousing;
   (F)   Single and multiple family dwellings;
   (G)   Utility structures; and
   (H)   Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be
similar in scope and intensity to those listed above.
(Ord. 239, § 602, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.068 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Because of the nature of the C-1 Zone, there arc no lot size setback
requirements except where the zone abuts a residential zone in which case the
following standards apply: Side and rear yards - 30 feet.
   (B)   Outside storage shall be fenced or screened.
   (C)   The C-1 zone is mainly comprised of commercial buildings.
(Ord. 239, § 603, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.069 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Entrance insets of not more than 3 feet are required.
   (B)   Ground level windows are to be similar shaped. No mirrored glass.
   (C)   Second story windows where applicable are to be evenly spaced and
shaped.
   (D)   Exterior street side wall is to be of conventional exterior material.
(Ord. 239 § 604, Am. #4, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 22-03, passed 4-25-2022)
C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT ZONE
§ 152.080 PURPOSE.
   The C-2 Zone is designed for commercial uses that generally located along
highways. This zone is characterized by large lots, on-site parking and deeper
setbacks. Businesses are automobile rather than pedestrian-oriented.
(Ord. 239, § 700, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.081 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C-1 Zone;
   (B)   Gas stations;
   (C)   Convenience stores;
   (D)   Implement and farm service stores; and
   (E)   New and used automobile sales and services.
(Ord. 239, § 701, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.082 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Fast food and drive-in establishments;
   (B)   Lumber yards and warehousing;
   (C)   Motels;
   (D)   Single- and multiple-family dwellings; and
   (E)   Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be
similar in scope and intensity to those listed above.
(Ord. 239, § 702, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.083 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Front yard - minimum 30 feet;
   (B)   Side and rear yard - 10 feet minimum except where commercial abuts a
residential use in which case the minimum is 20 feet;
   (C)   Lot area - 15,000 square feet;
   (D)   Lot width - 100 feet;
   (E)   Outside storage - these areas shall be fenced and shall relate to an
ongoing commercial activity;
   (F)   Parking - there shall be ample off-street parking to accommodate
traffic generated by the business; and
   (G)   Must have highway frontage.
(Ord. 239, § 703, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT ZONE
§ 152.095 PURPOSE.
   The I-1 Zone for continuation of existing industrial uses and to provide
space for planned industrial growth.
(Ord. 239, § 800, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.096 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Light manufacturing (such as low potential for noise, odor, waste, or
pollution problems and low transportation and other service requirements);
   (B)   Warehousing and wholesale merchandising;
   (C)   Automobile, truck, and farm machinery repair garages, excluding
salvage yards;
   (D)   Truck terminals and construction equipment storage yards;
   (E)   Industrial offices;
   (F)   Utility structures;
   (G)   Accessory structures; and
   (H)   Adult entertainment establishments.
(Am. #2, passed 4-22-2002)
(Ord. 239, § 801, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.097 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Heavy manufacturing (potential for noise, odor, waste, or pollution
problems or high transportation and other service requirement needs);
   (B)   Junk yards, auto reduction yards, and open storage yards; and
   (C)   Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be
similar in scope and intensity to those listed above.
(Ord. 239, § 802, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.098 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Front yard - minimum of 75 feet;
   (B)   Side and rear yard - 10 feet minimum except where industrial abuts a
residential zone in which case the minimum will be 30 feet; and
   (C)   Outside industrial storage - these areas shall be fenced with a 6-foot
high opaque fence and shall relate to an ongoing industrial activity.
(Ord. 239, § 803, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT ZONE
§ 152.110 PURPOSE.
   The A Zone is established in order to protect existing farm industry as a
viable, long-term use in those incorporated areas that are furthest from urban
growth and associated services. This zone also promotes new urban growth to
occur closer to services in an efficient manner.
(Ord. 239, § 900, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.111 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses: crop farming.
(Ord. 239, § 901, passed 1-22-2000; Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.112 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Dwellings associated with farm operations with sewage system meeting
M.N.P.C.A. standards;
   (B)   Accessory uses, including agricultural buildings and equipment;
   (C)   Home occupations, including seed sales and agricultural equipment
repair;
   (D)   Utility structures;
   (E)   Community and governmental buildings and parks;
   (F)   Individual home sewage systems meeting M.N.P.C.A. standards; and
   (G)   Other uses as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be
similar in scope and intensity to those listed above.
(Ord. 239, § 902, passed 1-22-2000; Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.113 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Front, side, and rear yards - minimum of 30 feet.
(Ord. 239, § 903, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.125 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining property. Any
use permitted by this chapter may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable
measures and safeguards are used to reduce dangerous and objectionable
conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following performance
standards.
(Ord. 239, § 1000, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.126 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Where at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land or
structures exist which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by
this chapter, the uses may be continued so long as they conform to the
following requirements.
   (B)   (1)   A nonconforming use or structure may be continued but may not be
altered or extended. The extension of a nonconforming use to a portion of a
structure which was arranged or designed for the nonconforming at the time of
passage of this chapter is not an enlargement or expansion of a nonconforming
use. A nonconforming structure, which conforms with respect to use, may be
altered or extended if the alteration or extension does not cause the structure
to deviate further from the standards of this chapter.
      (2)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 1 year,
further use of the property shall conform to the requirements of the district
in which it resides.
      (3)   If a nonconforming use is replaced by another use, the new use
shall conform to this chapter.
      (4)   If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a
nonconforming use is destroyed by any cause to the extent exceeding 50% of its
fair market value as indicated by the records of the County Assessor, and no
building permit has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is
damaged, a future structure or use on the site shall conform to the chapter in
both use and structure.
(Am. #4, passed - -2004; Am. #5, passed - -2005)
      (5)   Any new structure which will, under this chapter, become
nonconforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior
to the effective date of this chapter or amendment, if continued to completion
within 1 year, shall be a legally existing nonconforming structure.
      (6)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use and incidental alterations which do not
extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
      (7)   Lots of record that are nonconforming in area can be built on with
proper variances. However, all the lots that are contiguous and with a common
owner at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall be combined to create
lots of proper size in order to receive a building permit.
(Ord. 239, § 1001, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.127 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the purpose of this section to permit only those home
occupations compatible with uses in residential districts.
   (B)   (1)   Valid permit. No one shall conduct a home occupation without a
valid home occupation permit. Permits are issued to the applicant for a
specific use and site and are non-transferable to new property owners.
Discontinuance of a home occupation of more than a 6-month period shall void
the permit.
(Am. #5, passed - -2005)
      (2)   Permit application and review. Application for issuance of a home
occupation permit shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The
Planning and Zoning Commission will review the application for compliance with
performance standards listed in this section. The Board of Adjustment and
Appeals shall hear and decide appeals for home occupations permits.
      (3)   Performance standards. The following standards shall be followed in
the issuance of home occupation permits.
         (a)   No more than 1 person other than a member of the immediate
family occupying the dwelling shall be employed on the premises at any 1 time.
         (b)   The appearance of the structure shall not be altered, nor shall
the occupation be conducted in a manner which would cause the dwelling to
differ from its residential character either by use of colors, materials,
construction, lighting, advertising signs, or the emission of sounds, odors,
noise, vibration, heat, glare, or electrical disturbances.
         (c)   The use shall not create substantial traffic. More than 15
vehicles coming to the dwelling for service or products in any 1 day shall be
considered substantial additional traffic. Any need for parking shall be met
off the street, and other than in the front yard.
         (d)   There shall be no storage or display of any kind connected with
the home occupation visible from outside of the dwelling.
         (e)   Any construction, alteration, addition of electrical or
mechanical equipment, storage of chemicals or materials shall not change the
fire rating of the structure.
         (f)   Any other standards deemed necessary by the Planning and Zoning
Commission to preserve the residential character of the neighborhood.
      (4)   Permitted home occupations.
         (a)   Dressmakers, seamstresses, and tailors;
         (b)   Music, art, or dancing teachers (limited to not more than 5
students at any 1 time);
         (c)   Artists, sculptors, authors, or composers;
         (d)   Office facility of physicians, dentists, or other licensed
medical practitioners;
         (e)   Office facility of lawyers, architects, contractors, engineers,
realtors, insurance agents, brokers, salespeople, and members of similar
professions;
         (f)   Office facility of ministers, rabbis, priests, or members of
religious orders;
         (g)   Office facility of door to door salespersons;
         (h)   Home crafts, such as model-making, rug weaving, and lapidary
work;
         (i)   Barber or beauty shops;
         (j)   Limited photo studio, developing, or processing;
         (k)   Limited upholstering;
         (l)   Limited carpentry work; and/or
         (m)   Repair shops (limited to bicycles, small engine, lawn mowers,
small electrical appliances, typewriters, cameras, or other similar items).
      (5)   Prohibited home occupations.
         (a)   Animal hospital or pet shop;
         (b)   Clinics or hospital;
         (c)   Mortuaries;
         (d)   Private clubs;
         (e)   Rental operations;
         (f)   Automobile repair, major or minor;
         (g)   Major appliance repair or service;
         (h)   Painting and restoration of vehicles, trailers, or boats;
         (i)   Retail or wholesale sales;
         (j)   Manufacturing; and/or
         (k)   Warehousing or on-site storage of goods for redistribution.
      (6)   Previous permit. Home occupations permitted by previous issuance of
a special use permit shall be allowed to continue without issuance of a home
occupation permit. These uses shall follow all conditions attached to their
special use permit, as well as performance standards and regulations listed in
this section and chapter.
(Ord. 239, § 1002, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.128 PARKING.
   (A)   Surface and drainage. Off-street parking areas shall be improved with
a durable material. Parking areas shall be graded and drained to dispose of all
surface water without damage to adjoining property. These requirements also
apply to open sales lots.
   (B)   Location. Parking areas for single-, 2-, and multi-family dwellings
shall be adjacent to the principal use. Parking areas for commercial and
industrial uses shall be within 300 feet of the principal building. There shall
be no off-street parking area within any street right-of-way, except with
specific City Council approval.
   (C)   Parking stall size. Each parking stall shall, at minimum, have 162
square feet, shall be 9 feet in width, and 18 feet in length. Handicapped
parking stalls shall meet the square footage, width, and length found in §
152.003.
   (D)   Parking areas. Parking areas shall not be utilized for storage of
goods.
      (1)   Where a commercial use establishes a reciprocating parking
agreement with a commercial or industrial use that is within 300 feet, only 1/
3 of the required parking need be provided on site. However, the parking area
as a whole shall be equal to the requirements for each use.
      (2)   No truck-tractor or motor vehicle over 1-ton capacity bearing a
commercial license and/or a commercially licensed trailer shall be parked on
any street, highway, or alley within or abutting a residential district, except
when loading, unloading, or rendering a service. Recreation vehicles and
pickups are not restricted by the terms of this provision.
      (3)   Any area designated as a parking area to meet off-street parking
requirements shall not be converted to another use, or be used by another,
unless eligible parking area is obtained and meet off-street parking
requirements.
   (E)   Design and maintenance. All off-street parking areas shall be
designed, laid out and maintained as designated by the City of Wells. The
minimum curb cut for driveways at the right-of-way line shall be 16 feet. It
shall be the joint and several responsibility of the operator and owner of the
principal building to maintain in a neat and adequate manner, the parking area,
driveways, landscaping, and screening.
   (F)   Off-street parking requirements. Off-street parking requirements shall
apply to all zones with the exception of the C-1 Central Business District
Zone:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings - shall have 2 stalls per dwelling unit and
1 stall per accessory apartment;
      (2)   Duplex - 2 stalls per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Townhouses and condominiums - 2 stalls per dwelling unit;
      (4)   Multi-family - 2 stalls per dwelling unit up to an 8-plex;
dwellings having more than 8 dwelling units shall have 1.5 stalls per dwelling
unit;
      (5)   General business district - 1 stall per 400 square feet of sales
floor area plus 1 per employee on the maximum shift;
      (6)   Commercial business district - 1 stall per 1,000 square feet of
sales floor area plus 1 stall per employee on the maximum shift, subject to the
specific uses set below in divisions (F)(8) through (F)(19).
      (7)   Industrial district - 1 stall per 2 employees on the maximum shift
and 1 stall per commercial vehicle;
      (8)   Bar - 1 stall per 3 seats based on the design capacity of the
establishment;
      (9)   Cafes, restaurants, and clubs - 1 stall per 75 square feet of
dining area plus 1 stall per 2 employees on the maximum shift;
      (10)   Theaters - 1 stall per 3 fixed seats;
      (11)   Professional offices - 1 stall per 400 square feet of floor area,
plus 1 stall per 2 employees;
      (12)   Motels and hotels - 1 stall per rental unit plus 5 stalls for
employees;
      (13)   Home occupation - 1 stall per 300 square feet of home occupation
area;
      (14)   Schools - college and high schools shall have 3 stalls per
classroom and 1 for each teacher;
      (15)   Junior and elementary schools shall have 1 stall per teacher;
      (16)   Federal, state, city, and county buildings - shall have 10 stalls
plus 1 per 2 employees;
      (17)   Elderly housing - 1 stall per 3 dwelling units;
      (18)   Hospitals, rest homes, and nursing homes - 2 stalls per 1,000
square feet of gross floor area; and/or
      (19)   Churches, auditoriums, and mortuaries - 1 stall per 6 seats.
(Ord. 239, § 1003, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.129 FIRE HAZARDS.
   Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive
materials shall be protected by adequate fire fighting and fire prevention
equipment and the safety devices as are normally used in the handling of the
material. The hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to a
distance, which is compatible with the potential danger involved. No liquid
propane tanks are allowed in or attached to residential structures.
(Ord. 239, § 1004, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.130 NOISE.
   Any use established shall be so operated that no undue or objectionable
noise, as measured at any property line, shall exceed the minimum standards
established by Minn. Rules, Ch. 7030, as it may be amended from time to time.
This shall not apply to incidental traffic, parking loading construction, or
maintenance operations.
(Ord. 239, § 1005, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.131 VIBRATION.
   No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without instruments on
any adjoining lot or property. The standard shall not apply to vibrations
created during the process of construction.
(Ord. 239, § 1006, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.132 AIR POLLUTION.
   No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, vapors, odors, smoke, or other
substances shall be permitted which are harmful to health, animals, vegetation,
or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling. For the purpose of
this chapter, the regulations and standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency shall apply.
(Ord. 239, § 1007, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.133 REFUSE.
   All waste material, debris, refuse, or garbage shall be kept in an enclosed
building or properly contained in a closed container designed for the purposes.
The owner of vacant property shall be responsible for keeping the land or
property free of refuse.
(Ord. 239, § 1008, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.134 ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCES.
   No activity shall emit dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment on any lot other
than that of the creator of the disturbance.
(Ord. 239, § 1009, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.135 SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs erected or maintained after 1-1-2000, except official,
public traffic, and street signs, shall conform with the provisions of this
section and other city code provisions. The following regulations shall apply
to all signs hereinafter permitted in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Signs shall not be permitted within the public right-of-way or
easements.
      (2)   Flashing or rotating signs resembling emergency vehicles shall not
be permitted.
      (3)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway, or opening intended to provide light, air, or access to any
building or structure.
      (4)   Upon notification by the City Council or Zoning Administrator that
a sign is rotted, unsafe, or unsightly, the owner of the sign or owner of the
property where the sign is located shall remove or repair the sign. If the sign
is not removed or repaired, the city shall remove the sign at the owners'
expense after notice to the owner of the sign and like notice to owner of the
property and hearing thereon.
      (5)   The owner, lessee, or manager of any ground sign and owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut and shall clean and remove debris and rubbish from the lot on which a sign
is located.
      (6)   Political signs are allowed in any district on private property
with the consent of the owner of the property. The signs must be removed within
7 days following the election to which they apply. All political signs of any
size may be posted from August 1 until 10 days following the election.
   (B)   Signs in residential districts shall conform to the following
regulations:
      (1)   A nameplate sign identifying the owner or occupant of a building or
dwelling unit, provided the sign does not exceed 2 square feet in surface area.
The signs may be illuminated;
      (2)   A sign pertaining to the lease or sale of the building or property,
provided the sign does not exceed 6 square feet in surface area. The signs may
not be illuminated;
      (3)   A temporary sign identifying an engineer, architect, contractor, or
product engaged in or use in the construction of a building. This sign may not
exceed 4 square feet and must be removed before occupancy of the building. The
signs may not be illuminated;
      (4)   One identification sign not exceed 24 square feet in surface area
displaying location information for churches, schools, hospitals, nursing
homes, clubs, libraries, or similar uses. The signs may be illuminated;
      (5)   Directional, non-illuminated signs not exceeding 2 square feet in
surface area displaying directional information for churches, schools,
hospitals, nursing homes, clubs, libraries, or similar uses excluding office or
commercial establishments. Each use shall be limited to 1 sign per thoroughfare
approach; and
      (6)   Public street identification signs, traffic signs, and directional
signs in any parking area when the signs are necessary for the orderly movement
of traffic.
   (C)   Signs in the commercial districts may be erected in subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not
exceed 2 square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage or 10% of the building
frontage area or 75 feet in area, whichever is less. Signs may be illuminated.
      (2)   Advertising sign structures shall be limited to 1 for a lot of 100-
foot frontage or less and to only 1 for each additional 100 feet of additional
lot frontage.
      (3)   The advertising structure may not contain more than 2 signs per
facing, nor exceed 55 feet in total length.
      (4)   No advertising sign may be erected within 100 feet of an adjoining
residential district.
      (5)   For corner lots, the frontage used to determine allowable sign area
shall be the least dimension along a street, but an equivalent sign area shall
be allowed facing the intersecting street.
      (6)   No sign shall project higher than 6 feet above the height of the
building or 32 feet above the average grade at the building line, whichever is
greater.
      (7)   Signs painted on a building shall be governed by the square footage
limitations specified in this section. The signs shall be maintained in good
condition and shall be repainted, removed, or painted out when, in the opinion
of the City Council or Zoning Administrator, they are not so maintained.
      (8)   Where a sign is illuminated, the source of light shall not be
visible from any public right of way, and the light shall be directed away from
any residential district.
      (9)   No signs shall project more than 1-foot perpendicular to the
building.
      (10)   Rotating or flashing signs shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Signs in the industrial districts may be erected subject to the
following.
      (1)   Advertising sign structures shall be limited to 1 for a lot of 100-
foot frontage or less, and to only 1 for each additional 100 feet of additional
lot frontage. The structures shall not exceed 55 feet in length. No advertising
sign may be erected within 100 feet of a residential district. The signs may be
illuminated.
      (2)   Sign lighting shall not be directed toward public rights-of-way or
any residential district.
      (3)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not
exceed 3 square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage or 20% of the building
frontage or 300 square feet in area, whichever is less. The signs may be
illuminated.
(Ord. 239, § 1010, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.136 AWNINGS, MARQUEES, AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all commercial districts with the
following provisions.
   (B)   (1)   Movable awnings of cloth supported on metal frames may project
to street curb lines when lowered for use. No awnings shall be less than 7 feet
above the level of the sidewalk. This includes the metal frame of the awning.
      (2)   No marquee or fixed awning shall be erected as to project over the
street line, unless permission shall have been secured by the City Council.
      (3)   Every marquee or fixed awning shall have its framework constructed
of products approved by the City Building Inspector and shall be so designed as
to safely sustain a load of at least 50 pounds per superficial foot of its
upper surface. Whenever glass is used as the roof of a marquee or fixed awning,
it shall be wire glass and not less than 3/8 inch in thickness.
      (4)   In the case of roadway of any public street is widened hereinafter,
all existing marquee, awnings, or fixed awnings extending or projecting over
the street shall either be removed or brought into conformity with the
requirements of this section.
      (5)   No marquee or fixed awning shall be less than 7 feet above the
level of the sidewalk. Each marquee or fixed awning shall have rain gutters and
drainpipe to direct rain or snow melt away from the street and sidewalk.
      (6)   No marquee or fixed awning may be supported by columns or posts
that are located within the street.
      (7)   Where a marquee or fixed awning is to be supported by beams,
columns, rod, or chain to the building, the marquee or fixed awning shall
receive written approval from the City Building Official and shall be subject
to a city building permit.
(Ord. 239, § 1011, passed 1-22-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.137    BUILDING PERMITS.
   Building and/or land use permits are required for remodeling, building,
relocation and demolishing a structure within the city limits. Building and/or
land use permits are required for the construction or relocation of storage
building and private swimming pools within the city limits.
(Ord. 239, § 1012, Am. #4, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 7, Second Series, passed 9-
24-2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.138 RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permit required. A building permit is required before raising, holding
up or moving any building. An application for the permit shall designate the
origin and destination fo such building, the route over which it is to be moved
and the time in which the moving of such building shall be issued.
   (B)   Value of building. The building to be moved, after being moved, must
be worth at least 50% of the cost of a similar new building, as determined by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Sewer charges, water bills and the like. All sewer charges and water
bills payable against the property from which the building is to be moved have
been paid and that all sewer and water connections have been plugged or
discontinued at the main, that all cess pools, septic tanks and cisterns have
been filled, all other hazards have been eliminated and all taxes against the
property have been paid in full.
   (D)   Compliance with Building Code, ordinances and the like.
      (1)   The building to be moved must comply in all respects with the State
Building Code and other applicable ordinances; provided, the person proposing
the structure relocation may present to the Zoning Administrator and the
Building Official complete and detailed plans showing changes which will be mad
in order to attain compliance with the ordinances.
      (2)   In the event that such changes are proposed, a permit authorizing
the moving of the building shall not be issued until the owner has agreed in
writing to complete the necessary changes within a period of 1 year, the Zoning
Administrator has approved the plans, the building permit fee has been paid and
the building permit issued, and a performance bond guaranteeing completion of
the changes, and equal to at least 1½ times the cost of the proposed work as
estimated by the Zoning Administrator and the Building Official has been posted
with the city. That upon compliance with divisions (B) and (C) the Zoning
Administrator, licensee and applicant shall submit the application to the
Planning Commission for approval and recommendations to the City Council at the
next stated meeting of the Commission.
   (3)   The Planning Commission shall determine whether such application shall
conform to the immediate surrounding community. In every case in which a permit
is issued, as herein provided, for the removal required or the displacement of
any overhead electrical or other wires, it shall be the duty of the person,
association, or corporation owning, operating or controlling such wires to
remove or displace the same, so far as the same may be necessary to effect the
removal thereof, shall be authorized by the permit.
   (E)   Notice. The person to whom the permit shall have been issued shall
notify the person, association, or corporation owning, operating or controlling
the wire to remove or displace the same to facilitate the removal of the
building, and shall at the same time exhibit to the person, association, or
corporation the properly issued permit authorizing the removal of the wires
sufficiently to allow the passage of the building along the street over which
the wires are suspended.
   (F)   Any expenses incurred or to be incurred in the moving, removing or
displacing of the wire shall be paid for by the person who make application for
the permit.
(Ord. 239, § 1013, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.139 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL.
   (A)   Definition. In this chapter PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL means any pool,
tank, depression or excavation in or above ground, or other structure which
shall cause retaining of water over a greater depth than 18 inches and/or
having a larger plane surface of water greater than 150 square feet and which
shall be designed or used for swimming, wading or immersion purposes by
individuals, used or intended to be used solely by the owner, lessee or tenant
thereof and his or her family and by friends invited to use it without payment
of any fees.
   (B)   Permit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or repair a
private swimming pool within the city without first having secured a permit
therefor from the Building Official. An application for this permit shall be
made on such forms as may be furnished by the city, and shall be accompanied by
complete plans and specifications for the pool including the type and location
thereof with respect to the boundary lies of the land of the applicant. The
applicant shall pay the fees established by resolution for such permit.
      (2)   The Building Official may revoke any permit for failure to comply
with this chapter. Before a permit is revoked, the pool owner shall have notice
in writing listing and describing the instances of failure to comply with this
chapter. The permit shall be reissued upon proper application and upon
presentation that the deficiencies causing revocation have been corrected.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to own or maintain a private swimming
pool that does not comply with this section.
      (4)   Setback requirements; location generally; drainage generally.
   (C)   Location of pool. Pools for which a permit is required under this
article shall not be located within 10 feet of any side or rear lot line not
within 6 feet of any principal structure or frost footing. Pools shall not be
located closer than 10 feet to any portion of a private sewage system. Pools
shall not be located within any required front yard. Pools shall be drained to
the street storm sewer system unless otherwise authorized by the city.
   (D)   Fences.
      (1)   All private swimming pools shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or wall not less than 4 feet in height, which shall be so constructed as
not to have openings, holes or gaps larger than 4 inches in vertical or
horizontal direction, except for doors and gates. The fence shall be of a type
not readily climbed by children. A dwelling or accessory building may be used
as part of such enclosure. An above-ground pool with a wall greater than 4 feet
in height does not require a fence if the wall cannot be readily climbed by
children.
      (2)   All gates or doors opening through the enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door
securely closed at all time when not in actual use and be provided with
hardware for permanent locking devices, except that the door of any dwelling
which forms a part of the enclosure need not be so equipped. Pool gates shall
be locked when the pool is not in use.
   (E)   Temporary fences. When it is necessary to fill the pool prior to
installation of the required fencing, a temporary fence (such as a snow fence)
may be installed in a substantial manner; with the approval of the Building
Official. The maximum time allowed for a temporary fence shall be 30 days.
   (F)   Fencing standards. Fences must comply with the fence standards
specified in this chapter.
   (G)   Outdoor pool enclosures. Outdoor pool enclosures, permanent or
inflated shall be constructed in accordance with the Minnesota State Building
Code including appendix Chapter 55 (membrane structures). Enclosures shall be
of a neutral color and designed to blend with the existing surroundings. The
enclosure shall not exceed in height, the principal structure on the property
nor shall the enclosure be more than 18 feet in height.
   (H)   Above ground pools. Above ground private swimming pools shall be
protected in such a way that access ways, other than those afforded by the
dwelling house or accessory buildings, shall be equipped with self-closing and
self-latching gates or doors so these gates or doors are kept securely closed
at all times when not in actual use.
   (I)   Pool covers. Pool covers, whether they can be locked or not, do not
alone meet public safety requirements if the cover is of the type that can
collect and hold natural water.
   (J)   Lighting, ventilation and electrical requirements.
      (1)   Underwater lighting. Where underwater lighting is used, the lights
shall be spaced to provide illumination so that all portions of the pool and
pool bottom may be readily seen without glare.
      (2)   Electrical wiring. All electrical wiring shall conform with the
National Electrical Code approved by the National Fire Protection Association
and shall be approved by the National Underwriters Laboratory and the state
electrical inspector, with particular reference to Article 680-20 of the
National Electric Code.
      (3)   Grounding underwater lights. Each underwater light shall be
individually grounded by means of a crewed or bolted connection the metal
junction boxes which the branch circuit to the individual light precedes. Such
junction boxes shall not be located in the pool deck.
      (4)   Location of wiring. Service drop conductors and any other open
overhead wiring shall not be installed above the swimming pool or surrounding
area extending 10 feet horizontally from the pool edge, or dividing structure,
observation stands, towers or platforms.
      (5)   Shielding lights. Lights used to illuminate any private swimming
pool shall be so arranged and shaded as to reflect light away from adjoining
premises.
   (K)   Life-saving and emergency equipment.
      (1)   All private swimming pools shall have life-saving equipment
consisting of at least:
         (a)   One ring buoy not more than 15 inches in diameter to which is
attached a rope 3/16-inch in diameter and of a length at least equal to the
greatest dimension of the swimming pool.
         (b)   One life pole, or shepherd’s crook type of pole at least 10 feet
long and having blunted ends, shall be provided.
         (c)   Emergency flood lighting that is electrically connected to a
different circuit than used by the pool.
      (2)   The emergency equipment shall be used for emergency purposes only.
   (L)   Polluted water. No body of water whether it be natural or an
artificial body of water in the city, which contains sewage, waste, or other
contaminating or polluting ingredients rendering the water hazardous to health
shall be used for swimming or bathing by any person or persons.
   (M)   Water left standing. Water shall not be allowed to remain in any
unused or abandoned pool.
   (N)   City water supply.
      (1)   Cross connections. There will be no cross-connections of the city
water supply with any other source of water supply for the pool. The line from
the city water supply to the pool shall be protected against backflow of
polluted water by means of either an air gap, vacuum breaker or other adequate
device to prevent back siphonage.
      (2)   Bacteriological quality of water. A sample of private swimming pool
water shall be considered satisfactory when the total bacterial count at 35
degrees centigrade does not exceed 200 colonies per milliliter and no organisms
of the E.Coli group are present in a 10 milliliter portion or 100 milliliter
portion as determined by the membrane filter method. If more than 1 sample out
of 7 collected on different dates is unsatisfactory procedures and
interpretations relating to bacteriological quality shall be done in accordance
with the Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial
Wastes, 11th Edition.
   (O)   Pool filters.
      (1)   Every private swimming pool shall be equipped with a recirculating
system capable of filtering the entire contents of the pool in 12 hours or
less.
      (2)   Filters shall be capable of maintaining the clarity of the water to
permit the ready identification, through an 8-foot depth of water, of a disc 2
inches in diameter which is divided into 4 quadrants in alternate colors of red
and white.
      (3)   Filter capacity shall be such that it need not be cleaned more
frequently than once every 4 days under proper conditions of water and
operation.
      (4)   All pressure filters shall be equipped with influent and effluent
pressure gages to determine the pressure differential and frequency of
cleaning. All other filters shall be equipped with at least 1 pressure vacuum
or compound gauge, as applicable, which shall be positioned in such a way as to
determine the differential across the filter and the need of cleaning.
      (5)   All pressure filter systems shall be equipped with an air release
at the high point in the system.
      (6)   Operating instructions shall be posted on every filter system. All
valves shall be properly designated, indicating their purpose.
      (7)   When dissimilar metals are used in the construction of the filter,
which may set up galvanic currents, then suitable provision shall be made to
resist electrolytic corrosion.
      (8)   Filters so designated and installed that they can be readily
disassembled and the filter elements removed.
      (9)   Disinfection and chemical conditioning: Provisions shall be made
for the introduction into each private swimming pool water of accurate and
controlled applications of a disinfectant in sufficient quantities to attain
and maintain efficient bactericidal action while the pool is in use.
      (10)   Suitable methods shall be available to maintain a pH of the pool
water between 7.2 and 8.2 and to maintain an alkalinity of not less than 50
ppm.
      (11)   The devices used to apply chlorine or its equivalent as a
disinfectant shall be of such capacity as to maintain in all areas of the
swimming pool at all times at least 0.5 ppm of free available residual chlorine
or a residual level of another approved disinfectant which shall be of at least
a proven equivalent disinfecting strength as 0.5 ppm of fee available residual
chlorine.
   (P)   Chemical storage. The storage of chemicals shall meet the requirements
of the Uniform Fire Code.
   (Q)   Unnecessary noise. It shall be unnecessary for any person to make,
continue or cause to be made or continue at any private swimming pool or family
pool any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety
of others. In the operation of a swimming pool, the use of permitting the use
or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or
other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing of the person or persons who are in the swimming pool premises shall be
unlawful.
(Ord. 239, § 1014, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 152.140 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to demolish or cause to be demolished
any building or structure without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
city. Application for this permit shall be made at least 10 days prior to
commencement of the demolition, together with payment of the required fee and
deposit.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the party holding the permit to complete
the following:
      (1)   The removal of all resulting debris, including but not limited to
foundations, footings, floor slabs, chimneys and stairs, and the transportation
and deposition of this material in an appropriate licensed landfill; and
      (2)   The termination of utility service in a manner and form
satisfactory to the City Council.
(Ord. 239, § 1015, Am. #5, passed - -2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.155 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrator, whose
responsibilities shall be as follows.
   (B)   (1)   Review and sign building permits, the land use portion thereof
and make and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of land use as part of the building inspection
process and as directed by the Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council
to determine compliance with terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of the chapter, including
but not limited to all maps, amendments, and conditional uses, variances,
appeals and application therefore; and
      (4)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or
proceedings against violator as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 239, § 1100, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.156 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   A 5 person Board of Adjustment and Appeals is hereby created. The City
Council shall act as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals and has the authority
and jurisdiction to review and act upon all applications for appeal regarding
the interpretation and restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, § 1101, passed 1-22-2000; Am. #1, passed 5-7-2001; Am. Ord. 23-02,
passed 2-13-2023)
§ 152.157 DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals has the following powers and
duties with respect to the zoning code.
   (B)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order of requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative officer in the enforcement of the zoning code.
(Ord. 239, § 1102, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 23-02, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 152.158 CIRCUMSTANCES FOR GRANTING A VARIANCE.
   (A)   Undue hardship as used in connection with the granting of a variance
means:
      (1)   The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used
under conditions allowed by Chapters 151 and 152;
      (2)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to his
or her property not created by the landowner; and
      (3)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
   (B)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute an undue hardship
if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of the chapter.
   (C)   Conditions may be imposed in the granting of variances to ensure
compliance and to protect adjacent properties.
   (D)   A variance may not be granted for any use that is not permitted under
this chapter for the zone in which the property is located.
   (E)   Undue hardship, as used in connection with the granting of a variance,
includes direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
(Ord. 239, § 1103, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.159 VARIANCES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedure for taking action on a variance or an appeal shall be as
follows.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a variance or an appeal of a requirement,
decision, or determination of an administrative officer shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator stating the particular difficulties claimed and remedy
sought. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the
current city fee schedule. This fee shall not be refunded. The application
shall be considered as being officially submitted complete when the applicant
has complied with all the specified informational requirements, which shall
include the following:
         (a)   A written description of the request for the variance, including
an explanation of compliance with the variance criteria set forth in this
section; and
         (b)   Supporting materials as determined by the Zoning Administrator
as applicable to be necessary for the complete and clear definition and
understanding of the request.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complete application, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, the City Clerk shall set a public hearing following proper
hearing notification.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the matter to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for review and comment. Within 30 days after the Zoning
Administrator has accepted a complete application, the Planning Commission
shall conduct the hearing and report its findings and make recommendations to
the Board. Notice of hearing shall consist of a legal property description,
description of request and property location, and be published in the official
newspaper at least 10 days prior to the hearing.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall forward its recommendation
to the Board for final approval. The Board shall act upon the request within 60
days from the date of submission of the completed application to the Zoning
Administrator, unless an extension has been provided. However, the time within
which the Board must make a decision may be extended for 60 days by the Board
by giving written notice to the applicant of this extension and the reasons for
it within the first 60-day period, in which case the Board shall have 120 days
to hold a public hearing and either approve or deny the application for a
variance. A copy of the order shall be mailed to the applicant.
      (5)   A decision of the Board is final, subject only to judicial review
in the district court.
      (6)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Board shall provide a record
of its proceedings which shall include the minutes of its meetings, its
findings, and the action taken on each matter heard by it, including any final
order.
      (7)   Upon notification of the applicant and verification by the Zoning
Administrator that the construction permitted by a variance is complete, a
certified copy of a variance granted, including the legal description of the
property involved, shall be filed with the County Recorder.
      (8)   Construction permitted by an existing or newly issued variance
shall be completed within 1 year of the variance issuance or the variance shall
be void.
(Ord. 239, § 1104, passed 1-22-2000; Am. #4, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 23-02,
passed 2-13-2023)
§ 152.160 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   City Council shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Commission to oversee the
administration of the City Comprehensive Plan, zoning code, and other matters
delegated to it by the Council.
(Ord. 239, § 1105, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.161 DUTIES OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Engage in land use planning activities;
   (B)   Prepare a zoning ordinance. A Planning and Zoning Commission can not
adopt an ordinance. It can recommend an ordinance or amendments to an ordinance
to the City Council. Only a City Council can adopt an ordinance. The Planning
and Zoning Commission is the appropriate body to hold all hearings on a zoning
ordinance and its amendments;
   (C)   Review and recommend to the City Council the appropriate action to
take on all requests for amendments to the zoning code, variances and
conditional use permits;
   (D)   Hold public hearings on the above; and
   (E)   Other matters as delegated by the City Council.
(Ord. 239, § 1106, passed 1-22-2000; Am. Ord. 23-02, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 152.162 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   A conditional use listed in this chapter may be permitted, enlarged,
or altered in accordance with the standards and conditions of this chapter. In
addition to those standards and requirements expressly specified by this
chapter, additional conditions considered necessary to protect the best
interests of the surrounding area, or the city as a whole, may be imposed.
   (B)   These conditions may include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Ingress and egress to the property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required with particular
attention to the items in division (B)(1) above and the economic, noise, glare,
or odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining properties and properties
generally in the area;
      (3)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above;
      (4)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability, and
compatibility;
      (5)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
      (6)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
      (7)   Required yards and other open space; and/or
      (8)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property
in the area in regard to lot size, dimensions, and setbacks.
(Ord. 239, § 1107, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.163 CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedure for taking action on a conditional use application shall
be as follows.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan of the proposed
use showing the information as may be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator which may include, but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   Scale drawing of the parcel showing dimensions;
         (b)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings and their square
footages;
         (c)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, and off-
street loading areas;
         (d)   Existing topography;
         (e)   Finished grading and drainage plan;
         (f)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
         (g)   Soil limitations for the intended use; and
         (h)   A map showing all principal land use within 350 feet of the
parcel for which application is being made.
      (3)   The application and related file shall be referred to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for a study concerning the effect of the proposed use on
the comprehensive plan and on the character and development of the
neighborhood.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall cause to be published a notice of
public hearing, in the official newspaper, at least 10 days prior to the date
of hearing. The hearing shall be held within 30 days of filing.
      (5)   The City Council shall, within 60 days after a complete application
is accepted for filing by the Zoning Administrator, consider the advice and
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and either approve or deny
the application for the conditional use permit. The time within which the
Council must make a decision may be extended for an additional 60 days by the
Council by giving written notice to the applicant of the extension, within the
60-day period, in which case the Council shall have 120 days to either approve
or deny the issuance of the conditional use permit.
      (6)   No conditional use shall be recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission unless the Commission makes a positive finding on each of the
following.
         (a)   The use must be compatible with the uses in the immediate
vicinity for the purposes already permitted, nor substantially diminish and
impair property values within the immediate vicinity.
         (b)   That the establishment of the conditional use will not impede
the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant
property for uses predominant in the area.
         (c)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other
necessary facilities have been or are being provided.
         (d)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
sufficient off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use.
         (e)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise, and vibration, so that none of
these will constitute a nuisance and to control lighted signs and other lights
in a manner that no disturbance to neighboring property will result.
      (7)   Within 60 days of filing, the City Council shall consider the
advice and recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and shall make
a determination on the conditional use permit. Should the Council find that the
proposed use when conducted under the specified conditions will not be
detrimental to the health, safety, and general welfare, they may grant a
conditional use permit specifying the conditions for location and use
requested.
      (8)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit
shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of the permit and
of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
      (9)   A use permitted by a conditional use permit shall be established
within 1 year of the permit issuance. If the use is not established within a
year, the conditional use permit shall be void.
      (10)   Once the use is established, a conditional use permit shall remain
in effect as long as the conditions agreed upon are observed, but nothing shall
prevent the city from enacting or amending this chapter to change the status of
conditional uses.
      (11)   A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be filed with
the Faribault County Recorder. The conditional use permit shall include the
legal description of the property included.
(Ord. 239, § 1108, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.164 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedure for taking action on an amendment to the zoning code
shall be as follows.
   (B)   (1)   An amendment to this chapter may be initiated by the City
Council, Planning and Zoning Commission, property owner, or citizen. An
amendment may be for a change of property from 1 district to another, a change
in district regulations, or a change to other portions of this chapter. All
requests for amendment to this chapter text or map shall follow the procedure
outlined below.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall cause to be published a
notice of public hearing in the official newspaper at least 10 days prior to
the date of the hearing. When the petition involves changes in zone boundaries
affecting an area of 5 acres or less, a similar notice shall be mailed at least
10 days before the day of the hearing to each owner of affected property and
property situated wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the
amendment relates.
      (3)   For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the Zoning Administrator
shall use the records of the city public utilities and the County Recorder to
determine the names and addresses of owners. A copy of the notice and a list of
the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to by
the Zoning Administrator and shall be made a part of the records of the
proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners,
or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona
fide attempt was made to comply.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the amendment within 30 days of its filing. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall consider the effect of the amendment on the comprehensive plan and on
existing and planned land uses in the neighborhood of the amendment and
throughout the city. Within 10 days of the public hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council.
      (5)   The City Council shall either approve or deny the application by a
2/3 vote of the members of the Council within 60 after the filing of a complete
application for an amendment to the zoning code, or within 120 days if the
Council has extended the time period by giving written notice of the additional
60 day extension and the reason for it to applicant within the first 60-day
period.
      (6)   No petition of a property owner for an amendment to this chapter
shall be considered by the city within the 1-year period immediately following
a previous denial of the request, except the city may consider a new petition
if, in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, new evidence or a
change of circumstances warrant it.
(Ord. 239, § 1109, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.165 VALIDITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 239, § 1111, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.166 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of allowing interim use
permits is:
      (1)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction;
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district; and
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the comprehensive plan provided that
the use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
   (B)   Application and procedure. Uses defined as INTERIM USES shall be
processed according to the standards and procedures for a conditional use
permit as established by §
152.163 of the Wells City Code.
   (C)   Information requirement. The information required for all interim use
permit applications shall be as specified in §
152.163 of the Wells City Code.
   (D)   General standards. An interim use shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Conform to the applicable general performance standards of §
152.163 of the Wells City Code;
      (2)   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district;
      (3)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty;
      (4)   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the
public; and
      (5)   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
   (E)   Enforcement. Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be in
accordance with §
152.999 of the Wells City Code. The city reserves the right upon issuing any
interim use permits to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section or any conditions additionally imposed. Violation of
an issued permit or of the provisions of this section shall be grounds for
termination of the interim use permit.
   (F)   Termination. An interim use shall terminate on the happening of any of
the following events, whichever occurs first:
      (1)   The date or event stated in the permit;
      (2)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued; or
      (3)   Upon change in the city’s zoning regulations rendering the use
nonconforming.
   (G)   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a different
time when action is officially taken on the request, interim use permits which
have been issued under the provisions of this section shall expire without
further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council within 1 year of
the date of approval unless the applicant has substantially commenced the
authorized use or improvement, or unless within 30 days prior to the expiration
of the interim use permit the applicant has petitioned for a time extension by
completing and submitting a request for an extension, including the renewal fee
as established by City Council resolution. Such extension request shall be
submitted in writing and shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete or utilize the approval permitted in the interim use permit. A request
for an extension not exceeding 1 year shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Council. Should a second extension of time or any
extension of time longer than 1 year be requested by the applicant, it shall be
presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the City
Council for a decision.
   (H)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of an interim use permit as required by this section and
prior to the issuing of any building permits or the commencing of any work, the
applicant, as may be applicable, shall guarantee to the city the completion of
all improvements as shown on the approved site plan and as required by the
interim use permit approval.
   (I)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for an
interim use permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that
there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest or city
utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the interim use permit
application relates.
(Ord. 152, passed 8-8-2011)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 152.185 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend
any mobile home park or structures within the park that are permanent in nature
within the limits of the city unless he or she holds a valid permit issued by
the Building Inspector in the name of such person for the specific
construction, alteration of extension proposed, where permanent means that are
not on wheels or mobile.
   (B)   Application. All applications for permits shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant.
      (2)   Location and legal description of the mobile home park.
      (3)   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park
showing but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land; topography sketch
of land;
         (b)   The number, location and size of all mobile home lots;
         (c)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         (d)   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
         (e)   Plans and specification of the water supply and refuse and
sewage disposal facilities;
         (f)   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park;
         (g)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
      (4)   All applications for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee which
shall be based on total valuation of the work to be done. Such fees shall be in
accordance with established building permit fees required in the city.
      (5)   The Planning Commission may, at the request of the Building
Inspector, review all applications for permits, which have been forwarded to
them by the Building Inspector under the provisions of this section, and shall
be granted a hearing before the Planning Commission. The results of the
Planning Commission findings shall be forwarded to the City Council for their
review and action.
      (6)   Any person whose application for permit under this section has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on this matter before the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 239, § 1201, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.186 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to operate any mobile
home park within the limits of the city unless he or she holds valid license
issued annually by the Council in the name of such person for the specific
mobile home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the Council.
The Council shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   License is non-transferrable.  
      (1)   License fee. Application for original licenses shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the
truth of the application and by the deposit of a fee of $50 and shall contain:
         (a)   The applicant’s name and address.
         (b)   The location and legal description of the mobile home park.
         (c)   A situation of the mobile home park showing all mobile home
lots, structures, roads, walkways, and other service facilities.
      (2)   Renewal of licenses. Applications for renewal of licenses shall be
made in writing by the holders of the licenses, shall be accompanies by the
deposit of a fee of $50, and shall contain any change in the information
submitted since the original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
      (3)   Inspection and suspension. Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile
home park, the Building Inspector finds that the conditions or practices exist
which are in violation of any provision of this section, the Building Inspector
shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued that
conditions or practices shall be corrected within a 30-day period of time
specified in the notice by the Building Inspector. At the end of the period of
time, the Building Inspector shall reinspect the mobile home park and, if the
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the Council and the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer will give notice in writing of the suspension to
the person to whom the license is issued. Upon receipt of notice of the
suspension, the person shall cease operation of the mobile home park.
(Ord. 239, § 1202, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.187 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this
section. The Building Inspector shall have the power to enter at reasonable
times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this section and he or
she shall have the power to inspect the register containing a record of all
residents of the mobile home park. It shall be the duty of the park management
to give the Building Inspector free access to all lots at reasonable times for
the purpose of inspection. It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile
home park to give the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to
any part of such mobile home park at reasonable times for the purposes of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
this section. It shall be the responsibility of the Building Inspector to
determine compliance of the park with § 152.189.
(Ord. 239, § 1203, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.188 NOTICES, HEARINGS, AND ORDERS.
   (A) Notice. Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of this section, the Building Inspector shall give
notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the permit or license
was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
         (1)   Be in writing.
         (2)   Allow 30 days for the performance of any act it required. If
work cannot be completed in the 30-day period, extensions may be granted if
reasons for hardship do prevail and can be verified.
         (3)   The notice shall be served upon the owner of his or her agent as
the case may require; provided, that the notice or order shall be deemed to
have been properly served upon the owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
sent by registered mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has
been served with the notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of
the state.
   (B)   Hearing. Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with enforcement of any provision of this section, may request and
shall be granted a hearing of the same before the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals.
   (C)   Orders. Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may
without notice or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she may deem
necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the permit or
license. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the section , the order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom the order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Building Inspector shall be
afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provisions shall be applicable to
such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
   (D)   Relocation. Efforts would be made by the Building Inspector to inform
the resident of local, county, state, and federal programs that would assist
them with relocation.
(Ord. 239, § 1204, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.189 ENVIRONMENTAL.
   (A)   Open spaces and access requirements.
      (1)   General requirements. Conditions of soil, ground water level,
drainage and topography shall not create hazards to the property of the health
and safety of the occupants. The site should not be exposed to objectionable
smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to
unpredictable or sudden flooding.
      (2)   Soil and ground cover requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved, or covered with stone,
screenings, or other solid material, or protected with a vegetative growth that
is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
      (3)   Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of
every mobile home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water
in a sage, efficient manner.
   (B)   Certain provisions. No part of any park shall be used for
nonresidential purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct
servicing and well-being of park residents and for the management and
maintenance of the park. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as
prohibiting the sale of a mobile home located on a mobile home stand and
connected to the pertinent utilities. No such nonconforming use as provided in
this section may be continued for more than 5 years after the effective date of
this section.
   (C)   Required separation between mobile homes.
      (1)   Separation distance. Mobile homes shall be separated from each
other and from other buildings and structures by at least 15 feet. Mobile homes
placed end-to-end must have a minimum clearance of 10 feet.
      (2)   Accessory structure as part of mobile home. An accessory structure
such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet, carport, windbreak and porch which
has a floor exceeding 25 feet and has an opaque top or roof shall, for purposes
of all separation requirements, be considered to be part of the mobile home.
   (D)   Minimum lot sizes. Minimum lot sizes shall not be less than 4,000
square feet with a maximum lot coverage of 25% of less of the total lot area.
Where minimum lt sizes are 5,000 square feet or more, lot coverage may be
increased to a maximum of 30% of the total lot coverage.
   (E)   Required recreation areas.
      (1)   Zoning requirements. Provisions for park recreation areas shall
come under Chapter 152 of this code.
      (2)   Required setbacks, buffer strips, and screening.
         (a)   All mobile homes shall be locate at least 25 feet from any
property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway and at least 15
feet from other property boundary lines.
         (b)   There shall be a minimum distance of 10 feet between the mobile
home stand and abutting park street.
   (F)    Screening. All mobile home parks located adjacent to recreational or
commercial land uses shall provide screening such as fences or natural growth
along the property boundary line separating the park and such adjacent
nonresidential uses, and shall be maintained in a neat and orderly fashion.
   (G)   Park street system and car parking.
      (1)   General requirements. All mobile home parks shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home lot. Such access shall be provided by streets, driveways, or
other means.
      (2)   Park entrance. Entrance to mobile home parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for a
distance of 100 from its point of beginning.
      (3)   Internal streets. Surface roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
minimum requirements;
         (a)   All streets except minor streets shall be 20 feet in width from
face of curb to face of curb. Streets without curbs shall be considered minor
streets.
         (b)   Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 500 feet and
shall be provided at the closed end with a turn around having an outside
roadway diameter of at least 60 feet. All dead-end streets shall be marked with
approved signs at the entrance to dead-end streets.
         (c)   Minor streets may be 16 feet in width from face of curb to face
of curb (acceptable only if less than 500 feet long and serving less than 25
mobile homes or of any length if mobile home lots abut on 1 side only.)
      (4)   Car parking. Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes
shall be provided for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall:
         (a)   Be furnished at a rate of at least 2 car spaces for each lot.
         (b)   Be located within a distance of 200 feet from the mobile home to
be served, unless other vehicular access is provided. The minimum street width
requirement under division (G)(4)(a) in this section shall be increased by 8
feet if on-street parking is the only type of car parking provided in a mobile
home park.
      (5)   Required illumination of park street system. All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights as will provide the following average maintained levels
of illumination for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night:
         (a)   All parts of the park street system: 0.6 footcandles.
         (b)   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street
intersections and steps or stepped ramps: individually illuminated, with a
minimum of 0.6 footcandle.
      (6)   Street construction and design standards.
         (a)   Pavements. All streets shall be provided with a paved concrete
or bituminous surface. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained, free of cracks, holes and other hazards.
         (b)   Grades. Longitudinal grades of all streets shall range between
0.4% and 8%. Transverse grades (crown) of all streets shall be sufficient to
insure adequate transverse drainage. If conditions warrant, an adequate storm
sewer system shall be provided to dispose of run-off water. The storm sewer
system may be connected to existing city storm system upon approval.
         (c)   Intersections. Within 50 feet of an intersection, streets shall
be at right angles. A distance of at least 85 feet shall be maintained between
the centerlines of offset intersection streets. Intersections of more than 2
streets at 1 point shall be avoided.
   (H)   Walks.
      (1)   General requirements. All parks shall be provided with safe
convenient all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual mobile homes, the park
streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
      (2)   Common walk system. A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic concentrated. Such common
walks shall have a minimum width of 4½ feet.
      (3)   Individual walks. All mobile homes shall be connected to common
walks, to paved streets or to paved driveways or parking spaces connecting to a
paved street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width of 2 feet.
      (4)   Water supply. An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of
water shall be provided in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of
water of satisfactory quantity, quality, and pressure is available at the site
or at the boundary of a site, connection shall be made thereto and its supply
used exclusively. When a satisfactory public water supply system is not
available, a private water supply system may be developed and used as approved
by the State of Minnesota until such time as a public supply system becomes
available.
   (I)   Sewage disposal. An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided
in all mobile home parks for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Such system
shall be designed, contracted and maintained in accordance with state and local
laws.
   (J)   Service buildings and other community service facilities.
      (1)   General. The requirements of this division shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings, and other community service facilities such
as:
         (a)   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas.
         (b)   Sanitary facilities.
         (c)   Laundry facilities.
         (d)   Indoor recreation areas.
         (e)   Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the
exclusive use of park occupants.
      (2)   Structure requirements for buildings. All portions of the structure
shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary uses and by decay,
corrosion, termites and other destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be
of such materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance or
penetration of moisture and weather.
      (3)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves, and incinerators. Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, woodburning stoves and incinerators shall
be so located, constructed, maintained, and used as to minimize fire hazards
and smoke nuisances to both the property on which used and on neighboring
property. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no
material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Ord. 239, § 1205, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.190 REFUSE HANDLING.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall
be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
(Ord. 239, § 1209, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.191 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect and
rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to
control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirement of the City
Health Code. Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris, which
may provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests. Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe and other building material
shall be stored at least 1 foot above ground. Where the potential for insect
and rodent infestation exists, all exterior openings in or beneath any
structure shall be approximately screened with wire mesh or other suitable
materials. The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
the growth of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so
maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac, and other noxious weeds considered to be detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
(Ord. 239, § 1210, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.192 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   Natural gas piping systems, liquefied petroleum gas systems, and all fuel
supply systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable
codes and regulations governing such systems.
(Ord. 239, § 1211, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.193 FIRE PROTECTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other
flammable material. Portable fire extinguishers rated for Classes A, B and C
fires shall be kept visible in service buildings and at other locations
conveniently and readily accessible for use by all of the occupants and shall
be maintained in good operation condition. Their capacity shall not be less
than 2.5 gallons for Class A extinguishers and 5 pounds carbon dioxide or 10
pounds dry powder for Class B and C extinguishers.
   (B)   Fire shall be mad only in stoves, incinerators, and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be installed in the park water supply system is
capable to serve them in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The water supply system shall permit the operation of a minimum 1½-
inch hose streams.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, if provided, shall be located within 500 feet of any
mobile home, service building, or other structure in the park.
(Ord. 239, § 1212, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.194 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARK MANAGEMENT.
   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall operate
the park in compliance with this section and shall provide adequate supervision
to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a
clean and sanitary condition. The park management shall notify park occupants
of all applicable provisions of this section and inform them of their duties
and responsibilities under this section.
(Ord. 239, § 1213, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.195 EXISTING NONCOMFORMING USES.
   Any lawful, nonconforming use of land existing at the date of enactment of
this section may be continued, except that any nonconforming use or buildings
may not be:
   (A)   Changed to another nonconforming use.
   (B)   Re-established after discontinuance for 1 year if it involves a
substantial building; or after discontinued use for any period in other cases.
   (C)   Extended.
   (D)   Rebuilt after damage exceeding 50% of its assessed marked value.
(Ord. 239, § 1214, Am. #4, passed - -2004)
§ 152.998 VIOLATIONS.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of this chapter, the Council or any party it
designates, in addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or
proceedings in the name of the City of Wells. He or she shall hereby have the
powers of a public officer to prevent the unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, prevent the occupancy of the
building, structure, or land, or prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or
use in or about the premises.
(Ord. 239, § 1110, passed 1-22-2000)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions
hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof or who
shall make any false statement in any document required to be submitted under
the provisions hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 239, § 1110, passed 1-22-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
32               6-11-1897   Northwestern Telephone Exchange Company
33               6-1-1897    Amendment to Ord. 27; Blue Earth Valley Telephone
                             Exchange Company
37               8-26-1897   Amendment to Ord. 32; Northwestern Telephone
                             Exchange Company
40               11-16-1897  Amendment to Ord. 32; Northwestern Telephone
                             Exchange Company
79               7-25-1917   Permission to Standard Oil Company to construct
                             and maintain facilities
100              7-29-1931   Peoples Natural Gas Company; gas plant and/or
                             system
143              10-7-1952   Northwestern Natural Gas Company; gas plant and/or
                             system
183              3-18-1975   Wells Cable Television; community antenna
                             television system
189              5-6-1980    Peoples Natural Gas Company; gas plant and/or
                             system
202              7-21-1986   Amendment to Ord. 183; community antenna
                             television system
203              8-18-1986   Amendment to Ord. 183; community antenna
                             television system
205              1-22-1987   Amendment to Ord. 183; community antenna
                             television system
214              6-5-1989    Peoples Natural Gas Company
241              7-9-2001    Mediacom Minnesota, LLC; cable communications
                             system
244              11-19-2001  Wells Public Utilities; electric public utility
                             and electric distribution system
245              11-19-2001  Electric energy
2, Second Series 3-27-2006   Granting to Bevcomm a cable communications system
                             franchise
250              8-9-2011    Granting Minnesota Energy Resources, a subsidiary
                             of Integrys Energy Group, a natural gas franchise
                             Granting a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota LLC to
272              7-11-2016   construct, operate and maintain a cable
                             communications system in the city
                            
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
143           8-10-1953   Annexation of real property
148           6-2-1959    Annexation of real property
155           6-20-1961   Annexation of real property
178           9-25-1973   Extension of corporate limits
187           12-27-1978  Extension of corporate limits
220           9-9-1991    Extension of corporate limits
233           1-25-1999   Extension of corporate limits
2020-01 (273) 5-11-2020   Annexation of real property
                         
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
249      10-13-2003  Naming certain streets recently annexed
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References Minnesota Rules
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites           Code Section
12.25                32.01;
                     32.04
12.31                32.06
13                   30.14,
                     30.15
13D                  30.06;
                     30.14
14.57–14.70        112.36;
                     112.99
16D                  30.06
18.77, Subd. 8       92.35
84.872               70.23
84.9256              70.23
88.16–88.22        92.60
115.01               50.15
115.07               50.15
144.391              114.01
144.4167             95.03
157.16               112.03
157.16, Subd. 3d     112.03
169                  70.01,
                     70.70
169.045, Subd. 7     70.75
169.14               70.46
169.68               92.75
169.522              70.75
216B.36              51.60
260.185              130.99
272.67, Subd. 2      33.01
327.14, Subd. 3      152.003
327.14, Subd. 7      150.01
327.31               150.01;
                     152.003
327.31, Subd. 6      152.003
327.31–327.36      150.01
327.32               152.003
329                  113.03
                     112.01;
                     112.02;
340A                 112.20;
                     112.23;
                     112.36;
                     112.99
340A.14, Subd. 6     112.22
340A.101             112.03;
                     112.22
340A.401, Subd. 1    112.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(4) 112.55
340A.404, Subd. 4a   112.22
340A.404, Subd. 4b   112.22
340A.404, Subd. 5    112.22
340A.408, Subd. 2b   112.22
340A.408, Subd. 3    112.22
340A.408, Subd. 5    112.23
340A.409             112.25;
                     112.54
340A.413             112.55
340A.413, Subd. 3    112.20
340A.414             112.35
340A.504             112.33
340A.504, Subd. 3    112.22
340A.504, Subd. 3c   112.22
340A.509             112.02
340A.801             112.25
342.01               95.01
342.09               95.03
347.50               90.26
347.50, Subd. 2      90.24
347.51               90.24
347.515              90.24
364.06               30.15
364.09               30.15
412                  30.03
415.02               Adopting Ordinance
415.021              Adopting Ordinance
415.11               30.05
                     91.20;
429                  91.21;
                     151.25
                     91.20;
                     91.21;
429.101              92.01;
                     92.02;
                     92.21
435.195              150.02
462                  31.28;
                     31.29
462.357, Subd. 1b    152.003
462.358              151.20
462.358, Subd. 3b    151.21
463.15–463.26      92.01
463.17               92.20
471.6985             112.53
471.895              30.14
514.67               92.01
624.20, Subd. 1(c)   130.04
624.717              130.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
 
Minnesota Rules Cites                                              Code Section
Ch. 1510                                                           92.60
Ch. 7030                                                           92.18;
                                                                   152.130
Parts 1350.2500–1350.8200                                        150.01
Part 4830.0111, subpart 5, item A, subitem (1), unit b, subunit vi 50.18
                                                                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
–                10-6-1997   114.06;
                               114.08
–                8-10-1998   93.12
–                10-9-2000   92.03;
                               92.16
–                3-12-2001   93.04;
                               93.06
8                  6-30-1885   70.06
                               51.01–
                               51.09;
24                 4-4-1895    51.20-
                               51.25;
                               51.40-
                               51.47
26                 8-14-1895   94.01
32                 6-11-1897   TSO I
33                 6-1-1897    TSO I
37                 8-26-1897   TSO I
40                 11-16-1897  TSO I
44                 3-6-1900    91.05
50                 - -         31.01–
                               31.12
55                 2-7-1905    51.22
60                 8-6-1907    94.01
79                 7-25-1917   TSO I
100                7-29-1931   TSO I
105                8-4-1936    Ch. 71, Sched. I
114                11-2-1937   30.04
                               31.02–
                               31.04;
                               31.06;
123                5-7-1940    31.07;
                               31.10;
                               31.11;
                               31.13
125                6-4-1940    52.01
126                10-1-1940   70.02
140                6-5-1951    91.04
143                10-7-1952   TSO I
143                8-10-1953   TSO II
145                8-7-1956    91.03
146                7-2-1957    70.01
147                5-6-1958    91.02
148                6-2-1959    TSO II
154                3-21-1961   70.45–
                               70.56
155                6-20-1961   TSO II
163A               12-6-1966   94.01
165                4-4-1967    31.45–
                               31.49
166                3-4-1967    70.02
169                - -         31.25–
                               31.30
170                3-24-1970   30.03
178                9-25-1973   TSO II
182                8-15-1974   30.01
183                3-18-1975   TSO I
186                4-19-1977   70.03
187                12-27-1978  TSO II
189                5-6-1980    TSO I
197                10-22-1984  150.02
202                7-21-1986   TSO I
203                8-18-1986   TSO I
204                9-15-1986   150.02
205                1-22-1987   TSO I
207                2-18-1988   70.04
209                10-7-1988   50.35–
                               50.42
211                1-3-1989    50.15–
                               50.24
212                1-3-1989    50.36;
                               50.37
214                6-5-1989    TSO I
216                9-19-1989   50.19
219                8-5-1991    150.02
220                9-9-1991    TSO II
223                10-18-1993  70.04
228                11-19-1996  92.03;
                               92.16
229A-1             8-11-2003   70.20–
                               70.30
                               114.01–
230                9-8-1997    114.14;
                               114.99
231                9-8-1997    93.01–
                               93.12
232                7-13-1998   70.05
233                1-25-1999   TSO II
235                8-9-1999    92.35–
                               92.37
237                6-23-2000   150.01
238                10-9-2000   92.75–
                               92.77
239, §100         1-22-2000   152.001
239, §101         1-22-2000   152.002
239, §102         1-22-2000   152.003
239, §102, Am. #2 4-22-2002   152.003
239, §200         1-22-2000   152.004
239, §201         1-22-2000   152.005
239, §202         1-22-2000   152.006
239, §203         1-22-2000   152.007
239, §204         1-22-2000   152.008
239, §205         1-22-2000   152.009
239, §300         1-22-2000   152.020
239, §301         1-22-2000   152.021
239, §302         1-22-2000   152.022
239, §303         1-22-2000   152.023
239, §304         1-22-2000   152.024
239, §305, Am. #4 - -2004     152.025
239, §400         1-22-2000   152.035
239, §402         1-22-2000   152.037
239, §402, Am. #4 - -2004     152.037
239, §403         1-22-2000   152.038
239, §403, Am. #2 4-22-2002   152.038
239, §403, Am. #4 --2004      152.038
239, §500         1-22-2000   152.050
239, §501         1-22-2000   152.051
239, §600         1-22-2000   152.065
239, §601         1-22-2000   152.066
239, §602         1-22-2000   152.067
239, §603         1-22-2000   152.068
239, §604, Am. #4 - -2004     152.069
239, §700         1-22-2000   152.080
239, §701         1-22-2000   152.081
239, §702         1-22-2000   152.082
239, §703         1-22-2000   152.083
239, §800         1-22-2000   152.095
239, §801         1-22-2000   152.096
239, §801, Am. #2 4-22-2002   152.096
239, §802         1-22-2000   152.097
239, §803         1-22-2000   152.098
239, §900         1-22-2000   152.110
239, §901         1-22-2000   152.111
239, §901, Am. #4 - -2004     152.111
239, §902         1-22-2000   152.112
239, §902, Am. #4 - -2004     152.112
239, §903         1-22-2000   152.113
239, §1000        1-22-2000   152.125
239, §1001        1-22-2000   152.126
239, §1001, Am. #4--2004      152.126
239, §1001, Am. #5--2005      152.126
239, §1002        1-22-2000   152.127
239, §1002, Am. #5--2005      152.127
239, §1003        1-22-2000   152.128
239, §1004        1-22-2000   152.129
239, §1005        1-22-2000   152.130
239, §1006        1-22-2000   152.131
239, §1007        1-22-2000   152.132
239, §1008        1-22-2000   152.133
239, §1009        1-22-2000   152.134
239, §1010        1-22-2000   152.135
239, §1011        1-22-2000   152.136
239, §1012, Am. #4--2004      152.137
239, §1013, Am. #4- -2004     152.138
239, §1014, Am. #4- -2004     152.139
239, §1015, Am. #5- -2005     152.140
239, §1100        1-22-2000   152.155
239, §1101        1-22-2000   152.156
239, §1101, Am. #15-7-2001    152.156
239, §1102        1-22-2000   152.157
239, §1103        1-22-2000   152.158
239, §1104        1-22-2000   152.159
239, §1104, Am. #4- -2004     152.159
239, §1105        1-22-2000   152.160
239, §1106        1-22-2000   152.161
239, §1107        1-22-2000   152.162
239, §1108        1-22-2000   152.163
239, §1109        1-22-2000   152.164
239, §1110        1-22-2000   152.998;
                               152.999
239, §1111        1-22-2000   152.165
239, §1201, Am. #4- -2004     152.185
239, §1202, Am. #4- -2004     152.186
239, §1203, Am. #4- -2004     152.187
239, §1204, Am. #4- -2004     152.188
239, §1205, Am. #4- -2004     152.189
239, §1209, Am. #4- -2004     152.190
239, §1210, Am. #4- -2004     152.191
239, §1211, Am. #4- -2004     152.192
239, §1212, Am. #4- -2004     152.193
239, §1213, Am. #4- -2004     152.194
239, §1214, Am. #4- -2004     152.195
239, §1500        1-22-2000   151.01
239, §1501        1-22-2000   151.02
239, §1502        1-22-2000   151.03
239, §1503        1-22-2000   151.04
239, §1504        1-22-2000   151.05
239, §1505        1-22-2000   151.20
239, §1506        1-22-2000   151.21
239, §1507        1-22-2000   151.22
239, §1508        1-22-2000   151.23
239, §1509        1-22-2000   151.24
239, §1510        1-22-2000   151.25
239, §1511        1-22-2000   151.26
239, §1512        1-22-2000   151.27
241                7-9-2001    TSO I
243                11-19-2001  51.60
244                11-19-2001  TSO I
245                11-19-2001  TSO I
247                1-7-2002    50.01
248                3-10-2003   91.01
249                10-13-2003  TSO III
251                6-28-2004   33.01
- -                8-22-2005   93.08
- -                8-22-2005   50.01
1, Second Series   9-12-2005   Adopting Ordinance
2, Second Series   3-27-2006   TSO I
5, Second Series   5-14-2007   30.15
6, Second Series   7-23-2007   151.24;
                               151.25
                               150.15;
7, Second Series   9-24-2007   152.038;
                               152.137
                               94.10–
8, Second Series   12-22-2008  94.12;
                               94.99
                               70.70–
- -                10-13-2009  70.75;
                               70.99
- -                9-13-2010   30.15
                               114.02;
                               114.03;
                               114.06-
114.15             12-13-2010  114.08,
                               114.10;
                               114.11;
                               114.13;
                               114.99
152                8-8-2011    152.166
250                8-9-2011    TSO I
                               90.01;
                               90.02;
90.26              5-13-2013   90.15–
                               90.26;
                               90.99
2015-01            2-9-2015    152.003;
                               152.038
                               152.003;
                               152.036;
2015-02            2-23-2015   152.038;
                               152.051;
                               152.052;
                               152.053
                               91.02;
2016-01            4-25-2016   91.20;
                               91.21
272                7-11-2016   TSO I
273                3-2-2017    Adopting Ordinance
2020-01 (273)      5-11-2020   TSO II
22-01              2-28-2022   92.51
22-02              2-28-2022   93.06
22-03              4-25-2022   152.038,
                               152.069
22-04              8-8-2022    70.73
                               152.156,
23-02              2-13-2023   152.157,
                               152.159,
                               152.161
                               95.01–
23-04              10-10-2023  95.03,
                               112.05
23-05              10-10-2023  92.35
                              
