WINNEBAGO, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 94.20, passed 2-11-2025
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2, Second Series
CITY OF WINNEBAGO
COUNTY OF FARIBAULT
STATE OF MINNESOTA
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF    WINNEBAGO,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the City to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Winnebago, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Winnebago.” This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles: General Provisions, Public Works, Traffic Code, General
Regulations, Business Regulations, General Offenses, Land Usage and Table of
Special Ordinances.
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code shall remain in
effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance adopting a fee
schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this
Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WINNEBAGO, MINNESOTA THIS 13th DAY OF
May, 2003.
APPROVED:
Scott Owen /s/, MAYOR
Scott Owen
ATTEST:
Jeanne Kortuem /s/, ACTING CITY CLERK
Jeanne Kortuem
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.98   Enforcement
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally.  Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
    All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
    Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Winnebago, Minnesota. The term CITY when used in this
code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Faribault County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
    If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
    Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
    Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
    If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
    The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)    In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
    This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
    All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
    All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)    Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)    If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
    All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
    The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
    It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed police officer of the city's Police Department, or Deputy
Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any provisions of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. 626.862, as it may be amended from time to time,
by the City Administrator or Interim City Administrator shall have the
authority to administer and enforce this code. In addition, under that
statutory authority, certain individuals designated within the code or by the
City Administrator, Deputy Clerk or City Council shall have the authority to
administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any person or persons
designated may issue citations in lieu of arrest or continued detention to
enforce any provisions of the code.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
(Am. Ord. passed 6- -2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL AND CITY EMPLOYEES
      
31.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34
.   URBAN AND RURAL SERVICE DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL AND CITY EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Salaries
   
30.02   Combination of offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer
   
30.03   Employment background checks; applicants for city employment
   
30.04   License background checks; applicants for city licenses
City Council
   
30.15   General
   
30.16   Regular meetings
   
30.17   Special meetings
   
30.18   Adjournment
   
30.19   Order of business
   
30.20   Robert’s Rules of Order
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 SALARIES.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council member
shall be established from time by City Council ordinance, pursuant to M.S. §
415.11, as it may be amended from time to time. No change in salary shall take
effect until after the next succeeding city election.
(Ord. 174, passed 10-16-00)
§ 30.02 COMBINATION OF OFFICES OF CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 412.591, Subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time, the city offices of Clerk and Treasurer in
the City of Winnebago are combined in the office of Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Beginning with the year in which this section becomes effective and
each year thereafter there shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs by
the State Auditor of a Public Accountant in accordance with minimum auditing
procedures prescribed by the State Auditor.
(Ord. 155, passed 11-9-77)
§ 30.03 EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS; APPLICANTS FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Criminal history employment background investigations. 
      (1)   The Winnebago Police Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following positions within the city,
unless the city’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is
not needed:
         (a)   Employment positions: all regular part-time or full-time
employees of the City of Winnebago.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal
History data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority,
including the City Council, the City Administrator, or other city staff
involved in the hiring process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the
information.
      (4)   Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city will
not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06.
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment.
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-12-10)
§ 30.04 LICENSE BACKGROUND CHECKS; APPLICANTS FOR CITY LICENSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history license background investigations. 
      (1)   The Winnebago Police Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following licenses within the city:
         (a)   City licenses:
            1.   Peddler and solicitor.
            2.   Alcohol.
            3.   Tobacco.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal
History data may be released by the Police Department to the licensing
authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator, or other city
staff involved the license approval process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information.
Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city will not reject
an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction
unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and the conviction
is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the
city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city shall notify the
applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06.
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license.
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-12-10)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 GENERAL.
   The following rules of order and procedure set forth in §§
30.16 et seq. shall govern the deliberations and meetings of the City Council
and of committees thereof.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-10-57)
§ 30.16 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each calendar month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. Any regular meeting falling upon a
legal holiday shall be held on the next following secular day at the same hour
and place. All meetings of the Council shall be held at City Hall, including
special and adjourned meetings.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-10-57; Am. Ord. 129, passed 3-11-64; Am. Ord. 129, passed
1-8-92)
§ 30.17 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any two members of the
City Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each member of the City
Council. This notice shall be mailed to and either delivered personally to each
member or shall be left at the member’s usual place of residence with some
responsible person. Pursuant to M.S. § 16D.04, as it may be amended from time
to time, written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the date,
time, place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the meeting.
Written notice shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting to anyone
who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings. In calculating
the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
the next regular business day shall be counted as the third day. The only
business which may be discussed and acted upon at the special meeting are those
items contained in the notice of the special meeting.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-10-57)
§ 30.18 ADJOURNMENT.
   The Council may by a majority vote of those present adjourn from time to
time to a special date and hour. Notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given
as in the case of a special meeting as provided in §
30.17.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-10-57)
§ 30.19 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The business of the Council shall be conducted in the following
manner:
      (1)   Called to order by a presiding officer;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Reading the minutes of the preceding meeting and approving the
same, if correct, and rectifying mistakes if any exist;
      (4)   Reports of committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business from previous meetings;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Reports of city officers;
      (8)   Communications and miscellaneous business;
      (9)   Comments and suggestions from citizens present.
   (B)   In the absence of an Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, the President
shall appoint a Clerk Pro Tem.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-10-57)
§ 30.20 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The proceedings of the meeting shall be conducted in accordance with the
parliamentary rules contained in Robert’s Rules of Order, unless otherwise
provided by statute or by these rules.
(Ord. 129, passed 9-10-57)
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
Section
Joint Planning Board
   
31.01   Creation of Board
Economic Development Authority
   
31.15   Establishment
   
31.16   Vacancies in office
   
31.17   Removal from office
   
31.18   Officer, rules, employees, salaries and expenses
   
31.19   Employment staff
   
31.20   Appropriations, fees and other income
   
31.21   Functions, powers and duties
   
31.22   Limitations of power
   
31.23   Revenue bonds; pledges and covenants
   
31.24   Transfer of authority
Planning Commission
   
31.35   Establishment
   
31.36   Members
   
31.37   Chairperson; meetings
   
31.38   Creation of Zoning Plan
JOINT PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.01 CREATION OF BOARD.
   A Joint Planning Board be created between Faribault County, Verona Township
and the City of Winnebago for the unincorporated area within two miles of the
corporate limits of the City of Winnebago, Minnesota.
(Res. 124-97, passed 5-14-97)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established an Economic Development Authority, hereinafter referred
to as the “Authority” which shall consist of members appointed by the City
Council from among the residents of freeholders of the city. The Authority
shall consist of seven members, two of whom shall be members of the City
Council. The members shall be appointed by the City Council. Those appointed
shall be appointed for terms of three years.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.16 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   A vacancy is created in the membership of the Authority when a City Council
member of the Authority ends Council membership. A vacancy for this or another
reason must be filled for the balance of the unexpired term in the manner which
the original appointment was made.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.17 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   A member may be removed by the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of
duty or misconduct in office. A member shall be removed only after a hearing
before the City Council and in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.18 OFFICER, RULES, EMPLOYEES, SALARIES AND EXPENSES.
   The Authority shall elect a President, Vice President, Treasurer and
Secretary, each of which shall perform the duties of the office in the manner
specified in the Act. The Authority shall elect the President and Vice
President at the same time. The other offices may be held by the same officer.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.19 EMPLOYMENT STAFF.
   The Authority may employ such staff, technicians and experts as may be
deemed proper and may incur such other expenses as may be necessary and proper
for the conduct of its affairs. Members of the Authority may receive necessary
travel per diem and other expenses while on official business of the Authority
if funds are available for this purpose.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.20 APPROPRIATIONS, FEES AND OTHER INCOME.
   Following customary budgetary review the City Council shall appropriate
funds necessary to implement the Authority’s budget. These funds may come from
the city’s General Fund, from or by means expressed in M.S. § 469.107, as it
may be amended from time to time, from the transfer of funds, grants, gifts or
loans made to the city for the use by the Authority. The Authority shall have
the power to expand the budget, grants, gifts or loans for the purposes
authorized by the resolution.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.21 FUNCTIONS, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as specifically limited by this section, the Authority shall
have all the authority granted it pursuant to the Act, including but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Acquisition and disposition of property; this shall include the
purchase of options, easements, rights, land and building contract and exercise
of leases;
      (2)   Eminent domain;
      (3)   Contracts for service, joint action and the purchase or sale of
property;
      (4)   Limited and equity partnerships, provided such partnerships are
consistent with the purpose of the Authority;
      (5)   Issue loans, loan guarantees, interest reductions, provided such
activities are consistent with Authority’s purpose and is consistent with the
provisions of M.S. § 469.106, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (6)   Issue loans in anticipation of bonds;
      (7)   Establishment of redevelopment districts;
      (8)   The Authority may contract for services of consultants, agents,
public accountants and other persons needed to perform its duties and exercise
its powers;
      (9)   The Authority may use the services of the City Attorney for its
legal needs;
      (10)   The Authority may purchase the supplies and material it needs to
carry out its duties;
      (11)   The Authority may create and define the boundaries of economic
development districts as authorized by the Act;
      (12)   The Authority may cooperate with or act as agent for the federal
or state government or a state public body or an agency or instrumentality or a
government or other public body to carry out the powers granted it by the Act
or any other related federal, state or local law in the area of economic
development district improvement;
      (13)   An Authority may study and analyze economic development needs in
the city and ways to meet those needs;
      (14)   An Authority may join an official, industrial, commercial or trade
association or other organization concerned with such purposes, hold receptions
for officials who may contribute to advancing the city and its economic
development and carry out other appropriate public relations activities to
promote the city and its economic development;
      (15)   The Authority may carry out the law on economic development
districts to develop and improve the lands in an economic development district
to make it suitable and available for economic development uses and purposes.
In general, with respect to an economic development district, the Authority may
use all of the powers given an economic development authority by law;
      (16)   The Authority may perform such duties which may be lawfully
assigned to it by the city.
   (B)   All city employees shall, upon request and within a reasonable time,
furnish to the Authority or its employees or agents such available records or
information as may be required in its work. The authority, or its employees or
agents, may in the performance of official duties enter upon lands and make
examinations or surveys in the same manner as other authorized city agents or
employees and shall have such other powers as are required for the performance
of official functions in carrying out the purposes of this resolution.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.22 LIMITATIONS OF POWER.
   The actions of the Authority shall be limited as follows:
   (A)   Except when previously pledged by the Authority, the City Council may,
by resolution, require the Authority to transfer any portion of the reserves
generated by activities of the Authority that the City Council determines are
not necessary for the successful operation of the Authority to the debt service
funds of the city to be used solely to reduce tax levies for bonded
indebtedness of the city;
   (B)   The sale of general obligation bonds or obligations issued by the
Authority shall be approved by the City Council before issuance;
   (C)   The Authority shall follow the budget process for city departments as
provided by the city and as implemented by the City Council and Mayor;
   (D)   All official actions of the Authority must be consistent with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan of the city and any official controls implementing
the Comprehensive Plan.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.23 REVENUE BONDS; PLEDGES AND COVENANTS.
   An Economic Development Authority may decide by resolution to issue revenue
bonds either at one time or in series. The revenue bonds may be issued to
provide money to acquire land, purchase or construct facilities, purchase,
install, construct or furnish capital equipment to operate a facility for
economic development or to pay to enlarge or improve a project under its
control. The issued bonds may include the amount the Authority considers
necessary to establish an initial reserve to pay principal and interest in the
bonds. The Authority shall state in a resolution how the bonds, with interest,
are to be executed.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
§ 31.24 TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city may, by ordinance, divide economic development, housing or
redevelopment powers granted under M.S. §§ 469.001 through 469.047 and §§
469.090 through 469.108, as they may be amended from time to time, between the
Economic Development Authority and any other authority or commission
established by the city for the purpose of economic development, housing or
redevelopment.
   (B)   The city may, by resolution, transfer the control, authority and
operation of any project as defined in M.S. §§ 469.174 Subd. 8, 469.001 through
469.047 or 469.124 through 469.134, as they may be amended from time to time,
located within the city from the governmental agency or subdivision that
established the project to the Economic Development Authority. The city shall
require the Economic Development Authority to furnish a written explanation as
to why the project should be transferred or why the transfer should not occur.
The Economic Development Authority may exercise all the powers that the
governmental unit establishing the project could exercise with respect to the
project. The Economic Development Authority shall accept with the project all
terms, conditions, obligations and covenants pledged to the project.
(Res. 17-89, passed 4-26-89)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A City Planning Commission for the city is established.
(Ord. 137, passed 11-12-64)
§ 31.36 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. Five members
shall be appointed by the City Council, the Mayor shall be a member ex officio
and the Council shall select one member of the Commission from among its own
members.
   (B)   Of the members of the Commission first appointed, one shall be
appointed for the term of one year for a term ending January 1, 1965, one for
the term of two years, one for the term of three years and one for the term of
four years. Their successors shall be appointed for terms of four years.
Appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The terms of ex officio members shall correspond to their respective
official tenures. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Council for
the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 137, passed 11-12-64; Am. Ord. 6, Series 2011, passed 11-8-11)
§ 31.37 CHAIRPERSON; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year and may create and fill such other offices as it
may determine. The City Administrator-Clerk- Treasurer shall act as Secretary
of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. On
or before January 1 of each year the Commission shall submit to the City
Council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of the
Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City
Council.
(Ord. 137, passed 11-12-64)
§ 31.38 CREATION OF ZONING PLAN.
   (A)   The Commission shall proceed with the preparation and adoption of a
program, outlining its activities.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to prepare and adopt a
Comprehensive Plan for the development of the city.
   (C)   Before adopting any city plan, the Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given by
publication in the official newspaper at least ten days before the hearing. The
Commission may from time to time amend such city plan.
   (D)   Upon the adoption of the city plan, it shall be the duty of the
Commission to recommend to the City Council reasonable and practical means for
putting into effect such plan.
   (E)   The Commission upon its own motion may prepare a proposed zoning plan
for the city. Before recommending such plan to the City Council, the Commission
shall hold one public hearing thereon. The same procedure shall apply for the
preparation of any plan of proposed rights-of-way for future streets or
highways or the future widening of existing streets or highways or for the
reservation of lands for other public purposes.
(Ord. 137, passed 11-12-64)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Fire Department established
   
32.02   Appointment
   
32.03   Duties of Fire Marshal
   
32.04   Duties of Chief
   
32.05   Records
   
32.06   Practice drills
   
32.07   Assistant Chief
   
32.08   Firefighters
   
32.09   Loss of membership
   
32.10   Present members
   
32.11   Relief association
   
32.12   Interference with Department
   
32.13   Adoption of Faribault County Mutual Aid Association Agreement
   
32.14   Adoption of Amboy Mutual Aid Cooperative Fire Agreement
   
32.15   Adoption of Middle Nine Mutual Aid Association and Middle Nine Regional
Firefighters Association Joint and Cooperative Agreement
Fees for Emergency Protection Fire Services
   
32.30   Purposes and intent
   
32.31   Definitions
   
32.32   Parties affected
   
32.33   Rates
   
32.34   Billing and collection
   
32.35   Mutual aid agreement
   
32.36   Billing procedure for fire protection contracts with towns or other
cities
   
32.37   Application of collections to budget
§ 32.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is established in this city a Volunteer Fire Department consisting of
a Chief, an Assistant Chief, a Fire Marshal and not less than 15 men and women.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Assistant Chief and the Fire Marshal
shall be elected annually by the members of the Department, subject to
confirmation by the Council. Each shall hold office for one year and until his
or her successor has been duly elected, except that he or she may be removed by
the Council for cause and after a public hearing. Firefighters and probationary
firefighters shall be appointed by the members of the Department, subject to
the confirmation by the Council. Firefighters shall continue as members of the
Department during good behavior and may be removed by the Council only for
cause and after a public hearing.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.03 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   The office of Fire Marshal may be held by the Chief or by the Assistant
Chief, if the Council by resolution approves. The Fire Marshal shall be charged
with the enforcement of all ordinances aimed at fire prevention. He or she
shall have full authority to inspect all premises and to cause the removal or
abatement of all fire hazards.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.04 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have control over all the firefighting apparatus and shall
be solely responsible for its care and operation. He or she shall make an
annual report to the Council as to the condition of the equipment and needs of
the Fire Department. He or she may submit additional reports and
recommendations at any meeting of the Council, and he or she shall report each
suspension by him or her of a member of the Fire Department at the first
meeting of the Council following such suspension. He or she shall be
responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of the Fire
Department, and may suspend any member for refusal or neglect to obey orders
pending final action by the Council on his or her discharge or retention.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57; Am. Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 12-9-03)
§ 32.05 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires. The
record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire (if
known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose for which occupied,
value of building and contents, members of the Department responding to the
alarm and such other information as he or she may deem advisable or as may be
required from time to time by the Council or State Insurance Department.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.06 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief, when the weather permits, to hold a
monthly practice drill of at least one hour’s duration for the Fire Department
and to give firefighters instruction on approved methods of firefighting and
fire prevention.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.07 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all the authority of the Chief.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.08 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be not less than 18 nor more than
65 years of age and able- bodied. The Council may require that each candidate,
before he or she may become a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain
minimum requirements of height, weight, education and any other qualifications
which may be specified by the Council and that he or she must pass a
satisfactory mental and physical examination.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.09 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Firefighters, who fail to meet the attendance requirements as set forth in
the current by-laws of the Fire Department, may forfeit membership in the
Department.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57; Am. Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 12-9-03)
§ 32.10 PRESENT MEMBERS.
   Persons who are members of the Fire Department at the time of the adoption
of this chapter shall not be required to serve a probationary period before
receiving firefighter’s rating.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.11 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall organize themselves
into a Firefighter’s Relief Association.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57)
§ 32.12 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Fire Chief at a fire or to interfere with the Fire
Department in the discharge of its duties. Any person convicted of violating
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine set forth by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 127, passed 9-10-57) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.13 ADOPTION OF FARIBAULT COUNTY MUTUAL AID ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council authorizes its Fire Department to provide services
outside of the corporate city limits.
   (B)   The City Council approves and adopts the Faribault County Mutual Aid
Association and Joint and Cooperative Agreement for the Use of Fire Personnel
and Equipment, dated January 4, 2001.
(Res. 176-2001, passed 1-9-01)
§ 32.14 ADOPTION OF AMBOY MUTUAL AID COOPERATIVE FIRE AGREEMENT.
   The City Council approves and adopts the Amboy Mutual Aid Cooperative Fire
Agreement for the Use of Fire Personnel and Equipment, dated August 1, 1987.
(Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 12-9-03)
§ 32.15 ADOPTION OF MIDDLE NINE MUTUAL AID ASSOCIATION AND MIDDLE NINE MUTUAL
AID REGIONAL FIREFIGHTERS ASSOCIATION JOINT AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.
   The City Council approves and adopts the Middle Nine Mutual Aid Association
and the Middle Nine Mutual Aid Regional Firefighters Association Joint and
Cooperative Agreement for the Use of Fire Personnel and Equipment, dated July
9, 2002.
(Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 12-9-03)
FEES FOR EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES
§ 32.30 PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of authorizing the City of
Winnebago to charge for fire service as authorized by M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012,
and 415.01.
(Ord. 34, 2009 Series, passed 6-9-09)
§ 32.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
   FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
   FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other city
for the city’s fire department to provide assistance to the fire department of
a town or other city.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-9-09)
§ 32.32 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   (A)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
   (B)   Anyone who receives fire services as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
   (C)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides fire
services pursuant to a fire protection contract.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-9-09)
§ 32.33 RATES.
   The Fire Department shall establish rates which shall be adopted by
resolution of the City Council. The rates will be kept on file at the Fire
Department and will apply to all parties affected.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-9-09)
§ 32.34 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services will be billed directly
by the City of Winnebago within 30 days of the fire service. Additionally, if
the party receiving fire services did not request services but a fire or other
situation exists which, at the discretion of the Fire Department personnel in
charge requires fire service, the party will be charged and billed. All parties
will be billed whether or not the fire service is covered by insurance. Any
billable amount of the fire charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a
debt of the party receiving the fire service.
   (B)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the fire
service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent and
the city will send a notice of delinquency.
   (C)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (D)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October 15 of
each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor in
which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all charges
collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner notice
of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
   (E)   False alarms will be billed as a fire call after the first call to the
property within the calendar year.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-9-09)
§ 32.35 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   When the city’s Fire Department provides fire service to another fire
department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the billing will be determined
by the mutual aid agreement.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-0-09)
§ 32.36 BILLING PROCEDURE FOR FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACTS WITH TOWNS OR OTHER
CITIES.
   When the city’s Fire Department provides fire service to another city, town,
or fire department pursuant to a fire protection contract, the billing will be
determined by the contract.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-9-09)
§ 32.37 APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS TO BUDGET.
   All collected fire charges will be city funds and used to offset the
expenses of the city’s Fire Department in providing fire services.
(Ord. 34, Series 2009, passed 6-9-09)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions;
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an indefinite term
and may be removed by him or her at any time. The Director shall serve with a
salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. §
12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or interjurisdictional
disaster plans and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training and all other matters which are required to protect public
safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer. A copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection
during business hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their
availability for inspection at the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer’s office
shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city hall or other
headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area as the Council
shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council may modify or
rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution, under the worker’s compensation
law or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 34: URBAN AND RURAL SERVICE DISTRICTS
Section
   
34.01   Establishment of districts
   
34.02   Urban Service District
   
34.03   Rural Service District
   
34.04   Lands included within Rural Service District
   
34.05   Auditor’s Lot Finding
   
34.06   Transfer from Rural Service District to Urban Service District
   
34.07   Benefit ratio
   
34.08   Services provided
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The City of Winnebago hereby divides the area within its limits into an
Urban Service District and a Rural Service District, constituting separate
taxing districts for the purpose of all municipal property taxes except those
levied for the payment of bonds and judgments and interest thereon.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
§ 34.02 URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Urban Service District shall include all properties within the limits of
the City of Winnebago, except those set forth by ordinance as included in the
Rural Service District.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
§ 34.03 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Rural Service District shall include only such unplatted lands, which
need not be contiguous to one another, as in the judgment of the City Council
at the time of adoption of the ordinance, are rural in character and are not
developed for commercial, industrial, or urban residential purposes and for
these reasons are not benefited to the same degree as other lands by municipal
services financed by general taxation. The ordinance may designate lands
outside the City of Winnebago which, if annexed, shall be included in the Rural
Service District. No parcel shall be included in the Rural Service District of
ten acres or less and no parcel shall remain in the Rural Service District
unless such parcel consists of ten acres or more. Land in the Rural Service
District must be open; rural in character and maintained in farm crops or
seeded. Grading is not considered as development provided grading is limited to
such as is required to minimize storm runoff problems and provided graded areas
are cropped and reseeded within one year. Any fill hauled in shall be graded
off and seeded at least once each year.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
§ 34.04 LANDS INCLUDED WITHIN RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The following lands are included in the Rural Service District:
District: Presently Owned By:
District:                               Presently Owned By:
Parcel R31.026.0010
Sect-26 Twp-104 Range-028
19.04 ac                                David & Ann Krause
A.L.: SW 1/4 of SW1/4 ex all W of Hwy
#169 & ex .96A for Hwy
Parcel 31.026.0030
Sect-26 Twp-104 Range-028
17.11 ac
A.L.: All W of hwy of SW 1/4 of SW 1/
4 ex that part shown as parcel #241A on
MNDoT plat #22-12; & ex tr com 485.35'E Steven W. and Janet S. Schonrock
to wly r/w LI Hwy & 641.72'N alg wly r/
w li th N18' ely 20' N130.3' nly alg
wly r/w li an arc length 264.05' wly
20' nly alg wly r/w li an arc length
18.78' wly 181.2' S421' E190' to beg
Parcel R31.027.0010 Sect-27 Twp-104
Range-028
37.56 ac
A.L.: SE 1/4 of SE 1/4 ex that part of
following descr tr which lies within SE Lawrence R. Everett
1/4 of SE 1/4: tr com 338'S & 40' W of
NE OCR SEC 34-104-28 W100' W 338.4' nly
575.39' E457' S204' W40' S33' to S li
sec 27 S 337.97' to beg
Parcel R31.034.0010 Sect-34 Twp-104
Range-028
18.27 ac                                Roger & Debra Claeys
A.L.: Lot 3 ex tr 2R W on W of A.L. 1 &
all of 4 (ex 105'x 150' N of A.L. 5)
Parcel R31.034.0020
Sect-34 Twp-104 Range-028
17.29 ac                                Roger & Debra Claeys
A.L.: Lots 6, 7 8 & 9 ex E 11.75A of 6
& 7
Parcel R31.034.0030
Sect-34 Twp-104 Range-028
16.41 ac
A.L.: N 1/2 of NE 1/4 of NE 1/4 ex tr
com 338'S & 40'W of NE cor sec W100'
S87' E100' N87' to beg & ex that part   Lawrence R. Everett
of following descr tr which lies within
N 1/2 NE 1/4 NE 1/4: tr com 338'S &
40'W of NE cor sec 34 W100' W338.4' nly
575.39' E 457' S204' W40' S33' to S LI
sec 27 S337.97' to beg
Parcel R31.034.0040
Sect-34 Twp-104 Range-028
23.04 ac                                David D. Cartwright
A.L.: 22, 23 & 24 ex tr com se cor of
24 N393.6' W175' S353.55' sely 163.4'
E16.2' to beg
Parcel R31.034.0090
Sect-34 Twp-104 Range-028
19.64 ac
A.L.: S 3/4 of NE 1/4 of SW 1/4 ex tr
com se cor W425' N490' E425' S490' &
Lot 14 ex 180' X 12' in NW cor & ex     Robert D. Weerts
N157' as Ballard Add & Lot 15 ex N187'
& Lot 16 ex N9' & ex tr com SW cor Lot
4 Blk 1 Ballard Add S 140' E176.29'
N140' W176.29' to beg; & ex tr com
1800.64'N of S 1/4 cor sec th W599.03'
N 490.64' E599.93' S490.58' to beg
Parcel R31.034.0120
Sect-34 Twp-104 Range-028
29.90 ac
A.L.: NE 1/4 of NW 1/4 ex tr com 125' S Catherine E. Weir
of N 1/4 cor sec th wly 368' S769'
S424.5' +/- to S li NE 1/4 NW 1/4 E368'
+/- to N-S 1/4 li Sec th n alg 1/4 li
1200.6' +/- to beg
Parcel R31.034.0200
Sect-34 Twp-104 Range-028               Randy R. Olson
11.75 ac
A.L.: E11.75A of A.L. 6 & 7
Parcel R31.035.0010
Sect-35 Twp-104 Range-028
58.86 ac
A.L.: NE1/4 & 15 thru 22 ex tr
205'X122' in 17 & ex tr 588.5'X270' ex
3.28A to elev & tr 400' x 530' in SW    Mary Ellen & David Lewis
cor & ex .19A of A.L. 21 & 22 for Hwy &
ex tr com NE cor Blk 1 Eastons N210'
E935.8' to W r/w li RR S 208' W93'
S345' W132' S162' W 718' to E L.I.
Eastons N505' to beg
Parcel R31.035.0030
Sect-35 Twp-104 Range-028
12.67 ac
A.L.: 1, 2 & 3 ex E3A ly N of r/w T.H.  Robert Weerts & Thomas H. Golly Trust
#109 & RR r/w on W ex .81A to RR beg
1207.5'N of SW cor th N138.5' E222.77'
sely 153.17' wly 289.01'
Parcel R31.035.0060
Sect-35 Twp-104 Range-02
32.82 ac
A.L.: SW 1/4 of NE 1/4 ex RR & ex tr    Matthew William Schonrock
beg 5.1'E of SW cor th E516' N324'
W521' to RR r/w th S alg RR r/w to beg
& ex strip 33' wide ly N OF & adj to S
li SW 1/4 NE 1/4
Parcel R31.102.0030
Sect-02 Twp-103 Range-028
Verona Strip-Winnebago
28.05 ac
16, 17, 18, 35 & 36 ex that part shown
as parcel 235 on MNDoT plat 22-22 for
Hwy & ex tr com 546.04'E & 825'S of NW  Thomas H. Golly Trust & Judy A. Golly
cor NW 1/4 S243.9' E40' S16.65' E 337'  Trust
N260' W377' to beg (out of A.L. 16 & 17
in NW 1/4 NW 1/4) & ex tr in NW 1/4 NW
1/4 & in SW 1/4 NW 1/4 bounded on N by
S LI tr descr on document #299842; on W
by E r/w LI Hwy 169; on E by LI ly par
w/ & dist 27.75'E of E r/w LI Hwy 169;
& on S by S LI NW 1/4
Parcel R31.103.0010
Sect-03 Twp-103 Range 028               Elizabeth Babcock Marsh & Barry L.
Verona Strip - Winnebago                Marsh Trustees “B”
28.23 AC
All E of rd of N40R of NE 1/4 ex RR
Parcel R31.103.0030
Sect-03 Twp-103 Range-028
Verona Strip - Winnebago                Ethel M. Robertson
10.00 ac
S 1/4 of SE 1/4 of NW 1/4
Parcel R31.103.0040
Sect-03 Twp-103 Range-028
Verona Strip - Winnebago                Chad C. Diegnau
69.23 ac
A.L.: N 7/8 of E 1/2 of NW 1/4
Parcel R31.104.0010
Sect-04 Twp-103 Range-028
Verona Strip - Winnebago                Ethel M. Robertson
13.40 ac
Aud Lots 13 & 14
 
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13; Am. Ord. 154, passed 6-9-2015)
§ 34.05 AUDITOR’S LOT FINDING.
   The council finds that the portion of the property in the rural service
district and sometimes described as Auditors Lot 8, Auditor’s Plat No. 41, was
created for taxation purposes by the County Auditor and is not a platted lot
under M.S. Chapter 505. The Council further finds that the land is rural in
character and that it is not developed for residential, commercial or
industrial purposes.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
§ 34.06 TRANSFER FROM RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT TO URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   Whenever any parcel of land included in the Rural Service District is
platted in whole or in part and whenever application is made for a permit for
construction of a commercial, industrial , or urban residential development or
improvement; or whenever such improvement or building is commenced without a
permit the board or officer approving such plat or building permit shall report
this to the governing body which shall make and enter an order by resolution
transferring such parcel or part thereof from the Rural Service District to the
Urban Service District.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
§ 34.07 BENEFIT RATIO.
   In the judgment of the City Council, the approximate ratio which exists
between the benefits of land within the Rural Service District compared to land
of like market values situated in the Urban Service District shall be 30%.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
§ 34.08 SERVICES PROVIDED.
   No city service beyond that normally provided by the townships of Faribault
County will be provided by the city in a Rural Service District, except fire,
police and planning services.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-13-13)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   STORM WATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Burning of Waste and Other Material
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Open burning restrictions
   
50.03   Refuse restrictions
   
50.04   Contract requirements
   
50.05   Compulsory residential list
   
50.06   Residential waste storage
   
50.07   Commercial collection
BURNING OF WASTE AND OTHER MATTER
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPULSORY DISPOSAL LIST. The list of persons within the city who, by the
provisions of this subchapter, are required to pay a monthly unit service fee
for the collection, transportation and disposal of waste.
   CONTRACTOR. The city or any person, firm or corporation with whom the city
shall contract for the collection, transportation and disposal of waste.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Faribault County,
Minnesota, or its duly appointed representative.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENCE. Any single structure containing two or more household
units.
   MUNICIPAL WASTES. Liquid or semi-liquid residue from municipal sewage
disposal facilities.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. All houses, double bungalows, apartments and other living
quarters.
   SANITARY LAND FILL. A method of disposing of solid waste on land without
creating nuisances or hazards to public health or safety by confining the solid
waste to the smallest practical area to reduce it to the smallest practical
volume and to cover it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day’s
operation or at such more frequent intervals as may be required by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   SITE. An approved sanitary land fill waste disposal site and system,
according to standards established by the state, to which wastes shall be
transported and disposed of.
   UNIT SERVICE FEE. That monthly charge made to owners and occupants of
residential property.
   WASTE or WASTES. Refuse, garbage and rubbish of all kinds that accumulate in
the ordinary operation of a household or commercial or industrial
establishment, including but without limitation grass trimmings, ashes, tin
cans and tree branches.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-20-72)
§ 50.02 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall dispose of refuse by open burning or cause, suffer, allow or
permit open burning of refuse.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-20-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 REFUSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, no refuse shall be deposited or otherwise
disposed of within the city, except at a sanitary land fill operated under a
current, valid license issued by the Faribault County Board.
   (B)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Municipal wastes may be disposed of on land when used as
agricultural fertilizer, provided that it does not pollute water or air
contrary to state pollution control regulations and is disposed of in a
nuisance free and aesthetic manner.
      (2)   Leaves and other plant residue may be disposed of by burial or
plowing under.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-20-72)
§ 50.04 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   There is created and established a municipal garbage and refuse collection
system. The City Council is authorized and empowered to grant, by contract with
any person, firm or corporation, the exclusive right and authority to collect
and dispose of all garbage and refuse within the city.
(Ord 145, passed 6-20-72)
§ 50.05 COMPULSORY RESIDENTIAL LIST.
   (A)   There is established within the city a compulsory residential list
which shall include every residential dwelling wherein there will normally
accumulate waste, as defined in §
50.01, in the operation of a household.
   (B)   All persons whose names are included in the compulsory residential
list shall be charged a monthly service fee as may be established from time to
time by Council resolution, except for any residential unit where the head of
the household is 65 years of age or reaches the age of 65 years of age, at
which time the amount shall be as may be established from time to time by
Council resolution for the collection, transportation and disposal of waste.
Each household unit in a multiple residence shall be considered a separate
residential unit for billing purposes. The unit service fee is based on a
maximum collection of waste for not more than three 20-gallon or three 30-
gallon water-tight standard garbage cans or containers.
   (C)   If payment of the monthly unit service fee for garbage removal is not
made, the Council shall levy annually an assessment equal to the unpaid cost
against any parcel of land served.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-20-72; Am. Ord. 145, passed 6-21-79; Am. Ord. 145, passed
12-8-82; Am. Ord. 145, passed 6-8-83)
§ 50.06 RESIDENTIAL WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, transport or dispose of
any waste in the city, except in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   All waste, such as garbage or other wet or damp matter, shall be
wrapped and stored within a watertight standard type garbage can or container
having a lid. The garbage can or container shall not exceed a capacity of 30
gallons.
   (C)   The garbage cans shall be kept at ground level and in one place on the
premises. Garbage cans shall be kept accessible from within six feet of the
traveled portion of the adjacent street.
   (D)   Owners and occupants of residential property shall keep their premises
free from undue accumulations of snow so as not to interfere with collection.
Wherever such undue accumulation exists, collection will not be made.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-20-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 COMMERCIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   Because of the variation, both as to amount and type of waste from
commercial or industrial establishments, the rate for such collection shall be
negotiated on an individual basis by the contractor and the establishment.
   (B)   Collection from any commercial or industrial establishment shall not
be compulsory and any such establishment may at its election haul its waste to
the site and pay the land fill rates as established.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-20-72)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Management
   
51.02   Meters
   
51.03   Use of water
   
51.04   Sprinkling hose
    
51.05   Drinking fountains
   
51.06   Private fire hydrants
   
51.07   Fixtures
   
51.08   Service pipe and fixtures
   
51.09   Plumbers; rules for plumbing
   
51.10   Water Works Fund
Regulations
   
51.25   City agents right to enter premises
   
51.26   Application for water
   
51.27   Meter required
   
51.28   Disconnection of service
   
51.29   Claims against city for damages prohibited
   
51.30   Interfering with water works
   
51.31   City’s right of revision
Water Rates
   
51.45   Deposit
   
51.46   Charge for water service
   
51.47   Charge per thousand gallons of water
   
51.48   Minimum charge
   
51.49   Billing
   
51.50   Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer to receive moneys from bills
   
51.51   Delinquency charge
   
51.52   Disconnection of water for nonpayment
Critical Water Deficiency Regulations
   
51.65   Purpose
   
51.66   Definitions
   
51.67   Application
   
51.68   Declaration of critical water deficiency
   
51.69   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures
   
51.70   Variances
   
51.71   Violation
   
51.72   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 MANAGEMENT.
   The Council shall have power and it is its duty to maintain and control all
necessary buildings, machinery, apparatus, reservoirs and material to run and
operate the water works system within and owed by the city and to furnish water
therefrom to the citizens of the city upon their complying with the terms and
conditions of this chapter and all ordinances hereafter enacted or adopted by
the city.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.02 METERS.
   (A)   There must be placed and maintained in good order by each taker or
user of water, at his or her proper expense and charge, in a service pipe for
water now in use or that may hereafter be put in service, a proper meter
approved as to kind by the Council for the accurate measurement of all water
that may pass through the same before consumption thereof. All meters must be
placed in such position and placed in the service pipe that the same are easy
to access by the individual authorized to read and consult the same; the point
of placement shall be approved by the City Council or such agents as the
Council may appoint for that purpose and shall at all times be under control
and supervision of the City Council.
   (B)   No flat rate for water shall be made to any person except as herein
otherwise stated as to existing pipes in present use.
   (C)   The city will at all times keep on hand a supply of meters, approved
by the Council, for sale to consumers, at a price not to exceed the actual cost
thereof to the city, and they may be sold to consumers upon such terms of
payment (other than cash on delivery) as the Council may from time to time
direct.
   (D)   In case the meter of the separate user or users is found out of order
or not working properly, the city shall notify the owner of the premises, or
his or her agent, in writing, that the meter is not working properly and that
under this chapter the city will repair or replace the meter. This notice shall
be made in duplicate, a copy of which will be served upon the owner and the
original filed with the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   In a new construction and repairs no outside water pits will be
allowed, and meters must be placed inside property and protected from all
conditions which will hinder their use and readability at all times.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.03 USE OF WATER.
   (A)   All persons using water shall keep the hydrants, taps, hose and all
other fixtures allotted to their use closed except when obtaining water for use
and shall be responsible for any damage or injury that may result to others
from the improper use of the water. They shall keep their service pipes and all
other fixtures in good repair and protected from frost and at their own expense
and in such manner as to prevent any unnecessary waste of water. Water users
shall own the pipe and fixtures running from the water main to their house and
shall be responsible for any liability associated with the use of this line.
   (B)   No consumer shall supply water to others or suffer others to take it
off his or her premises, except that in case of a regular consumer’s water
fixtures becoming out of order, the supply during the time while waiting for
repairs shall not be considered a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whenever water has been shut off from any premises, it shall not be
turned on again by the consumer or any other person except a licensed plumber
after having proper authority to do so.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.04 SPRINKLING HOSE.
   Hoses for sprinkling yards, gardens and streets or washing windows or
sidewalks shall be prohibited between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. if
the temperature exceeds 80° or used only between such hours as the City Council
may from time to time direct and it must be confined to the fair application
for those purposes, without excessive or unreasonable use, and to the premises
of the party. During fire alarm and until fire is extinguished, sprinkling for
any other purpose than for fire extinguishment is expressly forbidden. The use
of hoses for sprinkling yards, gardens or walks may be suspended when public
necessity requires it.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.05 DRINKING FOUNTAINS.
   No hydrants, except public drinking fountains, shall be placed within the
limits of any street, and no drinking fountain shall be erected for public use
which has openings by which it can be used as a domestic supply.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.06 PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   From the effective date of this chapter, no field hydrant may be
installed and connected into the city water system except where such field
hydrant is installed so that all water going through it will pass through a
city approved meter.
   (B)   Any field hydrant installed in violation of this chapter shall be
charged a $15 per day fee until it is brought in compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   All existing field hydrants when this amendment goes into effect must
comply with one of the following requirements:
      (1)   It shall be charged at a every other month rate of $14.10 every
other month for residential users, $14.10 every other month for business users;
      (2)   It may be re-plumbed to meet requirements of this chapter and all
water will be billed at the standard rate for metered water; or
      (3)   It shall be exempt from any fee if it is used for fire protection
and provided it is sealed by city personnel. City personnel shall check the
seals during the quarterly meter readings, and any customer with a broken seal
will be charged the minimum fee for the current quarter pursuant to subsection
(C)(1) above.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.07 FIXTURES.
   Stopcocks and other appurtenances must be sufficiently strong to bear the
pressure of and run of the water in the mains. None but self-closing water
closets or urinals shall be used, and they must be subject with one or more air
holes near the top inlet pipe and be sufficiently strong to bear the pressure
of the atmosphere under vacuum.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.08 SERVICE PIPE AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   Along streets where mains are laid, service pipes will not be allowed
to run across lots to another but must be taken from the mains in front of the
premises or some point in the street adjacent to the same. Provided, that one
service pipe may be used to supply all the parties taking water within 30 feet
on either side of such service pipe, in which case such branch service must
have a service cock.
   (B)   All service pipes connected with the mains shall have a service stop-
cock placed at or near the curb, or outer edge of sidewalk, where possible,
this service stop-cock and its protecting box and cover must be of the pattern
on exhibition in the water office, which is made the city standard. The manner
of making connections, kind of pipe and the like must be as set forth in the
rules for plumbing.
   (C)   Every individual user must have a service stop-cock at the head of his
or her source of supply, which stop-cock must be located as directed by the
City Council and must be accessible at all times and never placed within a
building.
   (D)   Where there is a faulty, leaking or damaged service pipe or any
fixtures connected therewith at an apartment complex or rental housing, the
property owner of the housing shall have 20 days to correct the problem or make
progress in correcting that problem to the satisfaction of the Water
Superintendent. If the problem has not been corrected or satisfactory progress
towards correction of the problem has not been made to the satisfaction of the
Water Superintendent, the property owner will be fined an amount approximately
equaling the amount of water lost each day; the fine to be determined by the
Water Superintendent.
   (E)   No person shall be allowed to put in drinking fountains, hydrants,
sprinklers or private fire plugs without a stop-cock.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.09 PLUMBERS; RULES FOR PLUMBING.
   (A)   Plumbers.
      (1)   Any plumber wishing to do business in connection with the city
water works shall file in the office of the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer a
copy of their Minnesota license and proof of insurance, giving the name of the
firm and of each member thereof, the place of business in connection with the
water works, stating his or her willingness and consent to be governed in all
respects by the rules and regulations of the water works and every plumber
shall be subject and conform to all and singular rates, regulations and
penalties herein contained or which may hereafter be adopted.
      (2)   Within 24 hours after completing any attachments or connections,
the plumber shall notify the city of the location and length of the service
pipe and the location and kind of meter, according to the rules and
regulations, as the water will not be turned on to any premises until complete
returns are so made.
   (B)   Rules for plumbing.
      (1)   All service connections to water mains must be made as follows:
first, a corporation cock must be inserted into the mains; from the corporation
cock to the water meter not less than 3/4-inch type  L copper or 160 psi
polypropylene pipe must be used. Curb stop must be installed in every service
pipe. All repairs to present service pipes from water main to water meter must
be made with type L copper or 160 psi polypropylene pipes as above stated; no
iron or lead pipe shall be used.
      (2)   Each service pipe shall have a stop or service cock placed just
inside the curb line, or outer edge of the sidewalk, and the protected box
shall be of the pattern approved by the Water Supervisor.
      (3)   Where one service pipe is intended to supply two or more customers,
there shall be a separate service cock and meter for each. All service pipe
must be laid at least six feet deep.
      (4)   A 4-inch main shall receive no larger than a 5/8 tap; a 6-inch main
no larger than a 3/4 tap; no tap larger than 1 inch shall be inserted in any
main larger than above; when larger connections are desired two or more small
taps shall be used. All taps in mains shall be at least 18 inches apart and on
opposite sides of the pipe. No main shall be tapped nearer than 6 inches to the
joint.
      (5)   There shall be a valve attached to every supply pipe, at the point
where it enters the building.
      (6)   In putting down or repairing service pipes, the streets or alleys
must be opened in the manner which will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and admit of the interrupted passage of water along the gutter of the
street. The work will be subject to the city ordinances, and every precaution
must be taken to insure the public safety. All openings on streets must be
protected at night.
      (7)   The street and pavement immediately upon the completion of the work
must be restored to as good condition as it was previous to making the
excavation. Should any excavation in any street or alley be left open or
unfinished for an unreasonable period of time, determined by the city, the City
Council shall have the right to finish to correct the work, and the expense
thus incurred shall be charged to the homeowner.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.10 WATER WORKS FUND.
   All moneys received for licenses, fines, applications, permits, penalties
and water rates provided for in this chapter shall be paid into the City
Treasury and credited to the Water Works Fund and be applied and paid out as
the Council may direct.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.25 CITY AGENTS RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Persons taking water shall permit any authorized agent or any member of the
Council to enter his or her premises at all reasonable hours to examine the
pipes and water fixtures and the manner in which the same are placed, connected
and used and shall answer all proper questions put to him or her relative to
the same. The city may disconnect the water if a person refuses to permit an
examination.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.26 APPLICATION FOR WATER.
   (A)   Persons desiring a supply of water shall file a written application
with the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer upon blanks furnished for this purpose
or use.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer to notify
the City Council of new construction or water line extensions and the City
Council shall examine or disallow the same; if allowed, the Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish the applicant with a permit duly executed,
allowing the request contained in the application and all the rules,
regulations and rates herein set forth are to be considered a part of the
contract with the said applicant.
   (C)   All applications for water must be made by the owner of the property
to be served or his or her duly authorized agent. Where more than one tenant,
tenement or premises is supplied through one service pipe, the application
shall be made by the owner thereof, who shall be responsible for all water
supplied through the service pipe or pipes. However, every water meter taking
water on that premises must pay the base fee, the minimum water usage fee, the
per thousand gallons usage over the minimum water allowed, plus any additional
base fees determined on the number of tenants taking water on the premises,
except as follows:
      (1)   Nursing homes and assisted living units shall pay one base fee and
will be billed for actual gallons used, one minimum water usage fee and water
usage over the minimum allowed, for the main part of their nursing facility.
All assisted living units shall be charged one base fee per unit. Each
apartment unit attached to a nursing home facility shall pay the base fee, the
minimum water usage fee and water usage over the minimum allowed per unit;
      (2)   Apartment complexes of 21 units or more located in one building
with one service pipe shall pay one base fee and will be billed for actual
gallons used, one minimum base fee for each apartment unit within that building
and that base fee per unit will include an allowance of the minimum gallons of
water per month, per unit.
(Ord. 1, 2010 Series, passed 12-14-10; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
§ 51.27 METER REQUIRED.
   The water shall not be turned on at any private service pipe, except for the
purpose of testing such service pipe, nor until and unless such service pipe
shall have attached a proper meter for measuring the water as hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   If any person using water from the water works shall violate any of the
conditions of this chapter or any ordinance or regulation hereafter enacted or
adopted by the city in respect to the use of the water, the water shall be cut
off from the building or place of the violation, and the same shall not be let
on again except by order of the Council and upon the payment of the expense of
shutting the same off and turning it on again which shall be set by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
§ 51.29 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY FOR DAMAGES PROHIBITED.
   It is expressly stipulated that no claim for damages shall be made against
the city by any consumer by reason of the breaking or freezing of any service
pipe or cock, nor if for any cause the supply of water should fail, nor for
damage arising from shutting off the water to repair the mains or making
connections or extensions or for any other purpose that may be deemed
necessary. The right is reserved to cut off supply of water at any time for the
purpose of repairs, or any other necessary purpose, any permit granted or
regulation to the contrary not withstanding. Whenever it shall be necessary to
cut off the water within any district of the city, notice will, if practicable,
be given in advance to each consumer who may be affected thereby.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.30 INTERFERING WITH WATER WORKS.
   No person shall willfully, negligently or carelessly break, injure, mar,
deface, interfere with or disturb any building, main, service pipe, hydrant,
valve or curb box or other apparatus or fixtures of the water works of the
city. Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this section
of this chapter shall be punished as determined by §
10.99 and shall also be liable in a civil action on behalf of the city for all
damages caused by such violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.31 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The right is reserved to the city to change the rules, regulations and water
rates, from time to time, as it may deem advisable, by resolution, but no
special rate for water shall be made to any person or corporation to the end
that all users shall be treated alike and shall pay alike for all water used.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
WATER RATES
§ 51.45 DEPOSIT.
   All users of water who rent from a property owner must make an application
for service to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, make a deposit of $75,
and pay all consumer charges under this chapter. Any unused balance of the
deposit will be returned when the water service is discontinued.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
§ 51.46 CHARGE FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The charge to consumers for water measured by the meter, a base water rate
charge, and a minimum usage fee shall be at a rate set by the Council by
resolution from time to time and subject to §
51.25 et seq. The resolution shall include how many gallons are provided as
part of the minimum usage fee.
(Ord. 2, 2010 Series, passed 12-14-10)
§ 51.47 CHARGE PER THOUSAND GALLONS OF WATER.
   Water may be supplied at the location determined by the city at a rate set
by the Council by resolution from time to time per 1,000 gallons. The user will
be billed by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 3, 2010 Series, passed 12-14-10)
§ 51.48 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   The rates are subject to the provision that every individual dwelling or
premises taking water in any quantity through a service pipe must pay the base
fee and the minimum water usage fee.
(Ord. 4, 2010 Series, passed 12-14-10)
§ 51.49 BILLING.
   (A)   All meters will be read monthly, and every individual dwelling or
premises taking water will be sent a bill by the first day of every month. The
utility bill is due by the tenth of every month.
   (B)   The Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall from the report of the meter
readings on the last day of each quarter or month as hereinbefore provided and
make out bills against each person liable for water, which bills shall show the
amount due and payable from such person. The bills shall be made in duplicate
in the form of books or tablets with stubs attached, which stubs shall contain
a description of the bill attached and to which it corresponds in number, date,
person, amount due, what for and when payable and such other memoranda as may
be necessary to identify the bill with the stub.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.50 ADMINISTRATOR-CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE MONEYS FROM BILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer to receive all
moneys from the persons against whom the bills are made and to give each payer
the bill thereof torn from the corresponding stub and shall receipt the same by
his or her proper signature and shall sign his or her name to the corresponding
stub, which shall be retained by him or her until settlement with the Council.
(Ord. 84, passed 7-11-00)
§ 51.51 DELINQUENCY CHARGE.
   If any individual dwelling or premises taking water fails or neglects to pay
the bill by the tenth of every month, there shall be a 5% penalty charge of the
outstanding balance owed.
(Ord. 5, 2012 Series, passed 9-11-12; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
§ 51.52 DISCONNECTION OF WATER FOR NONPAYMENT.
   If any individual dwelling or premises taking water fails or neglects to pay
the bill for one month, the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall give a notice
of the delinquency. If such delinquent does not pay within ten days after the
giving of the delinquency notice, the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall
report the name of the delinquent to the Water Supervisor, who shall at once
proceed to turn off the water from the premises of the delinquent. The water
will not be turned on again until all arrears are paid in full, together with a
$50 turn on fee and a $50 turn off fee.
(Ord. 6, 2012 Series, passed 9-11-12; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY REGULATIONS
§ 51.65 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes water conservation restrictions; and the plan
will be in effect at any time the governor declares by executive order a
critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK. In statutory cities means the person assigned duties pursuant to M.S.
§ 412.151; or the city manager pursuant to M.S. §§ 412.601 through 412.751 or
in charter cities as determined by city charter.
   DEPARTMENT. The city water department.
   EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the governor.
   IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens,
lawns, or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
   NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages, or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, subdivision 4.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
   WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse water
at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.67 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
   (B)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water received
from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented based
upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the governor.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.68 DECLARATION OF CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   Upon the declaration of a critical water deficiency by the governor, the
public water supplier shall immediately post notice of the emergency
declaration at the usual meeting place of the city council, or the official
city bulletin board. The city shall provide notification to the public as
quickly as possible or through established water supply plans emergency
response plans or procedures.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.69 MANDATORY EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon declaration of a water emergency and notification to the public, the
following mandatory restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced:
   (A)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
   (B)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
   (C)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
   (D)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited from
serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested by the
customer.
   (E)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
   (F)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
   (G)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.70 VARIANCES.
   The City Clerk or their designee, is authorized to grant variances to this
subchapter where strict application of its provisions would result in serious
hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only for reasons involving
health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a variance within five
days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the City Clerk. The City
Council shall hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of
the City Council is final.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.71 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violations shall be determined and cited by the City Clerk or his/her
designee. A violator may appeal the citation within five days of its issuance
by submitting a written appeal to the city. The City Council shall hear the
appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is
final. Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence is
provided that equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A letter from a
qualified vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show proof of
equipment failure.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
   (C)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall be
issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the violation
and shall describe the remedy. Fines shall be added to the monthly water bill
of the owner or current occupant of the premises where the violation occurred.
The imposition of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the city to
pursue other legal remedies.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
§ 51.72 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Clerk or his/her designee is authorized to designate city employees
or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 51.11, passed 12-13-16)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Control by Wastewater Superintendent
   
52.003   Damage of wastewater facilities
   
52.004   User rate schedule for charges
   
52.005   Powers and authority of inspectors
Sewer Regulations
   
52.020   Human or animal excrement, garbage or objectionable waste
   
52.021   Unlawful to discharge to natural outlet unless suitable treatment
provided
   
52.022   Privies prohibited
   
52.023   Connection to public sanitary sewer required
   
52.024   Assessment
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.035   Use of private wastewater disposal
   
52.036   Permit required; application
   
52.037   Installation; inspection
   
52.038   Compliance with city standards
   
52.039   When public sewer available, connection required
   
52.040   Sanitary operation and maintenance required
   
52.041   Additional requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.055   Connections restricted
   
52.056   Permit required
   
52.057   Application for permit
   
52.058   Classes of permits
   
52.059   Costs and expenses of connection
   
52.060   Separate building sewers required; exception
   
52.061   Existing building sewers
   
52.062   Compliance
   
52.063   Elevation
   
52.064   Prohibited connections
   
52.065   Specifications
   
52.066   Inspection
   
52.067   Installation guarded with barricades and lights
   
52.068   Connection to be made by licensed person only
   
52.069   Application for connection license
   
52.070   Suspension or revocation of license
Use of Public Services
   
52.085   Special agreements permitted
   
52.086   Unpolluted water discharges prohibited
   
52.087   Storm sewers and natural outlets
   
52.088   Prohibited discharges
   
52.089   Limited discharges
   
52.090   Powers of city
   
52.091   Dilution of discharges to achieve compliance prohibited
   
52.092   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
52.093   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.094   Control manholes
   
52.095   Sampling and analysis
   
52.096   Protection against accidental discharges
   
52.097   Catch basins or waste traps
   
52.098   Repairs to connection
   
52.099   Assessment of damages
Sewer Service Charge System
   
52.110   Definitions
   
52.111   Establishment of sewer service charge system
   
52.112   Determination of sewer service charges
   
52.113   Sewer Service Fund
   
52.114   Administration
   
52.115   Lien
 
   
52.998   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Winnebago, Minnesota or its representative.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
immediately outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit, if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business or from the development, recovery
and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or domestic
strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly-owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as but not limited to roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act or any
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or more stringent state criteria
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section 402
and 405 of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration or during which the only pollutant added
is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 225 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 250 mg/l.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, sub-surface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
Section 307(a) of the Act; or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection and/
or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system, as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation or municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water, including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.002 CONTROL BY WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Wastewater Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city and shall be responsible
for administering all provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.003 DAMAGE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.004 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of the sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type
of service and in accordance with the provisions set forth in §§
52.110 et seq.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.005 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The city may disconnect the
property from the sewer system if a person refuses to permit an inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling or testing.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.094.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 52.020 HUMAN OR ANIMAL EXCREMENT, GARBAGE OR OBJECTIONABLE WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under jurisdiction any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.021 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET UNLESS SUITABLE TREATMENT
PROVIDED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.022 PRIVIES PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.023 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged
and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary sewer of the city shall be required at the owner’s expense to
install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in accordance with
provisions of this code within 30 days of the date the public sewer is
operational, provided the public sewer is within 500 feet of the structure
generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on property
adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the
public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this section, an
official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner
to make the connection.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.024 ASSESSMENT.
   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in compliance
with a notice given under §
52.023, the city must undertake to have the connection made and shall assess
the cost thereof against the benefitted property. The assessment, when levied,
shall bear interest at the rate determined by the City Council and shall be
certified to the Auditor of the County of Faribault, Minnesota and shall be
collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for local
improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition to any remedial or
enforcement provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.035 USE OF PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.023, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.036 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owners shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city. The
application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary to the city.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.037 INSTALLATION; INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city or its
authorized representative. The city or its representative shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final inspection
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 72 hours of the receipt of notice.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.038 COMPLIANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, as it
may be amended from time to time, entitled “Individual Sewage Treatment System
Program.” No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.039 WHEN PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABLE, CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 30 days in compliance with this chapter, and within 30 days
any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal systems
shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit drainage and
the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.040 SANITARY OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.041 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Department of Health of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.055 CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED.
   Any new connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Superintendent.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.056 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.057 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized agent and
the party employed to do the work and shall state the location, name of owner,
street number of the building to be connected and how occupied. No person shall
extend any private building beyond the limits of the building or property for
which the service connection permit has been given.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.058 CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgement
of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.059 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF CONNECTION.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.060 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.061 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or her
representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.062 COMPLIANCE.
   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.063 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, the sanitary sewer
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.064 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspout foundation drains, areaway
drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer
or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.065 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by
proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior
to installation.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.066 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.067 INSTALLATION GUARDED WITH BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.068 CONNECTION TO BE MADE BY LICENSED PERSON ONLY.
   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter to perform such work, and no permit shall
be granted to any person except such regularly licensed person.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.069 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION LICENSE.
   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the
Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If approved by the Council,
the license shall be issued by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer upon the
filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.070 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this subchapter
for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
   (B)   Incompetence of the licensee;
   (C)   Willful violation of any provision of this subchapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 52.085 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit limitations are not violated.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.086 UNPOLLUTED WATER DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or
noncontact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   A permit must be required from the city to discharge sump pump water
or other clear unpolluted water into the sanitary system in the winter months.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be given a 12-
month compliance time period. After the 12-month compliance period, a surcharge
of $100 per month shall be added to every sewer billing after verification of
noncompliance by the city. The property owner will receive written notification
of the surcharge, and the surcharge shall be added every month until the
property is in compliance with this section. The imposition of such surcharge
shall in no way limit the right of the city to seek an injunction in District
Court ordering the property owner to disconnect the nonconforming connection
from the sanitary sewer system or from pursuing any other legal remedies
available, such as the city correcting the violation and assessing the cost to
the property.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86; Am. Ord. 3, 2005 Series, passed 6-14-05) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 52.087 STORM SEWERS AND NATURAL OUTLETS.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water of
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.088 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system;
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.089 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and ground water or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   The Superintendent may set limitations lower than limitations
established in the regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his
or her opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the Superintendent will give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit,
capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the
sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The limitations or
restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharge
to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the
Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C) or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C) or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
slug, as defined in §
52.001;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
52.001. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the
premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as but not
limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in such
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of the following limits for such
materials:
0.5  arsenic
mg/l
0.5  cadmium
mg/l
1.5  copper
mg/l
0.5  cyanide
mg/l
1.5  lead
mg/l
0.05 mercury
mg/l
1.5  nickel
mg/l
0.5  silver
mg/l
0.5  total chromium
mg/l
1.5  zinc phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by city’s wastewater treatment
mg/l system
 
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency or state or federal regulatory body;
      (12)    Any waters or wastes containing  BOD5  or suspended solids of
such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be
permitted by specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
52.099.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.090 POWERS OF CITY.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
52.089 and/or which in the judgement of the Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes or
equipment; receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation and ground water; or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act and all addendums
thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owners’ expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.091 DILUTION OF DISCHARGES TO ACHIEVE COMPLIANCE PROHIBITED.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
52.088 and
52.089 or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.092 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.093 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in §
52.089, any flammable wastes as specified in §
52.088, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of
the collecting materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must be
performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.094 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure or control
manhole with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. Such
structure shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe
and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.095 SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents with federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an independent laboratory.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.096 PROTECTION AGAINST ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. The notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
treatment process or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof under
any state and federal law. Employees shall insure that all employees who may
cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.097 CATCH BASINS OR WASTE TRAPS.
   (A)   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains
into the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a
deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days
after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap or, if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair or alter the same and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.098 REPAIRS TO CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, detrimental to the use of the public sewer or unfit for the purpose
of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as the
Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and the
Superintendent may then cause the work to be done and recover from such owner
or agency the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.099 ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGES.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this subchapter, the city may assess against any person the cost
of repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result
of the discharge or prohibited wastes by such applicable to the type of service
and in accordance with the provisions set forth in §§
52.110 et seq.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 52.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributed to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (including billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD5  and/or TSS greater than
domestic waste as defined in this section and not otherwise classified as an
incompatible waste.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly-owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes or from the development of any natural resources. These
are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office
of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental under one of the
following divisions:
 
Division A Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
Division B Mining
Division D Manufacturing
Division E Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary Sewers
Division I Services
 
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
         (a)   BOD5  less than 225 mg/l;
         (b)   Suspended solids less than 250 mg/l.
      (3)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works which
discharge wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process or which
constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates
any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge
from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business, including but not limited to all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste
as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   NONRESIDENTIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 225 mg/l and
suspended solids concentrations not greater than 250 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment works and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi- detached housing, apartments and
mobile homes and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users to the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the
Act, which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, nonresidential and industrial establishments which
are connected to the public sewer collection system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
(Ord. 117½, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.111 ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all revenue
collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be used to
affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charge to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “sewer service charge system”
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The sewer service
charge system shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this subchapter,
shall be published in the local newspaper and shall be effective upon
publication. Subsequent changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be
adopted by Council resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as the Sewer Service Fund. Income from revenues collected will be
expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement
for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provision of §
52.114.
(Ord. 117½, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.112 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified
as belonging to one of the following user classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Nonresidential; or
         (c)   Industrial.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. Allocation of users to user classes
shall be based on the substantive intent of the definitions of these classes
contained herein.
   (B)   Each user shall pay operation, maintenance and replacement costs in
proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, with the minimum rate for loadings of BOD and
TSS being the rate established for concentrations of 225 mg/l BOD and 250 mg/
l TSS (Normal Domestic Strength Wastewater). Those industrial users discharging
segregated normal domestic strength wastewater only can be classified as
nonresidential users for the purpose of rate determination.
   (C)   The charges assessed residential users and those users of other
classes discharging normal domestic strength wastewater shall be established
proportionately according to billable wastewater volume. Billable wastewater
volume shall be calculated as follows:
      (1)   Residential users.
         (a)   Billable wastewater volume for residential users shall be
calculated on the basis of metered water usage. The per quarter billable
wastewater volume shall be equal to quarterly metered water usage as average
between the first and last quarters of the calendar year.
         (b)   The city may require residential users to install water meters
for the purpose of determining billable wastewater volume.
      (2)   Nonresidential users.
         (a)   The billable wastewater volume of nonresidential users may be
determined in the same manner as for residential users, except that if the city
determines that there are significant seasonal variations in the metered water
usage of nonresidential users resulting in a proportionate increase in
wastewater volume, then billable wastewater volume shall be:
            1.   Calculated on the basis of quarterly metered water usage as
recorded throughout the year; and
            2.   Calculated on the basis of wastewater flow meters.
         (b)   The city may, at its discretion, require nonresidential users to
install such additional water meters or wastewater flow meters as may be
necessary to determine billable wastewater volume.
   (D)    User charges for normal domestic users shall be determined as
follows:
      (1)   Calculation of unit cost for treatment of normal domestic strength
wastewater.
         Uomr   =   Comr
               Tbwv
   Where:   Uomr   =   Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement
         Comr   =   Total annual OM & R costs
         Tbwv   =   Total annual billable wastewater volume in kgal.
      (2)   Calculation of user charge.
         Uc   =    Uomr x bwv
   Where:   Uc   =    User charge
         Uomr   =   Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement in $/
kgal.
         bwv   =   Billable wastewater volume of a particular user in kgal.
   (E)   Local construction costs of the wastewater treatment facility will be
recovered through a debt service charge calculated using usage, connection and
assessment charges as follows:
      (1)   Calculation of debt service unit cost for wastewater volume.
         Uds   =   Cds
               Tbwv
   Where:    Uds   =   Unit cost for debt service in $/kgal.
         *Cds   =   Cost of annual debt service assigned for wastewater volume.
         Tbwv   =   Total annual billable wastewater volume in kgal.
   *City may reduce the cost of annual debt service through the use of other
city funds at its discretion.
      (2)   Calculation of debt service billable connection cost.
         UD   =   CDC
               TC
   Where:    UD   =   Unit billable connection cost for debt service
         *CDC   =   Costs of annual debt service assigned for connections
         Tc   =   Total number of billable connections
   *City may reduce the cost of annual debt service through the use of other
city funds at its discretion.
      (3)   Assessment. Calculation of debt service for assessment of
construction costs for the wastewater treatment facility will be recovered
through an assessment as established by the City Council.
      (4)   Calculation of debt service charge.
         Dc   =   Uds x bwv + UD x U + Assessment
   Where:    Dc   =   Debt service charge
         Uds   =   Unit cost for debt service in $/kgal
         UD   =   Unit billable connection cost for debt service
         U   =   Number of billable connections for particular user
         bwv   =   Billable wastewater volume of a particular user in kgal
         Assessment   = Amount of assessment charged per year
   (F)   Determination of sewer service charges. The sewer service charge for a
particular connection shall be determined as follows:
         SSC   =   Uc + Dc
   Where:    SSC   =   Sewer service charge
         Uc   =   User charge
         Dc   =   Debt service charge
      (G)   Additional assessments. The sewer service charges established in
this subchapter shall not prevent the assessment of additional charges to users
who discharge wastes with concentrations greater than normal domestic strength
or wastes of unusual character or contractual agreements with such users as
long as the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The user pays operation, maintenance and replacements costs in
proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, and no user is charged at a rate less than
that of normal domestic strength wastewater;
      (2)   The measurements of such wastes are conducted according to the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
in a manner acceptable to the city as provided for in this chapter. A study of
unit costs of collection and treatment processes attributable to flow, BOD, TSS
and other significant loadings shall be developed for determining the
proportionate allocation of costs to flows and loadings for users discharging
wastes of greater than normal domestic strength or wastes of unusual character.
(Ord. 117½, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.113 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to receive
all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system and all other income
dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and construction of the
wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special charges, fees and
assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city also establishes the
following accounts as income and expenditure accounts within the Sewer Service
Fund:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system and all other
income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the
city. Funds received by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the
Operation and Maintenance Account, the Equipment Replacement Account and the
Debt Retirement Account in accordance with state and federal regulations and
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge sufficient to insure
adequate replacement throughout the design of useful life, whichever is longer,
of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the Equipment
Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs. Interest
income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in the
Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
(Ord. 117½, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.114 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions:
   (A)   (1)   The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a proper
system of accounts suitable for determining the operation and maintenance,
equipment replacement and debt retirement costs of the treatment works and
shall furnish the City Council with a report of such costs annually in January.
      (2)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the treatment works and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user in
accordance with §
52.111 and Section 204(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as
amended.
      (3)   The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the sewer service charge system then in use to
insure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records
necessary to document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly basis
succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due 30
days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full after the due date
will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be  computed as 5% of the original bill.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxins or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes at
no expense to the city.
(Ord. 177½, passed 2-26-86; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
§ 52.115 LIEN.
    (A)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
subchapter is made a lien upon the lot or premises serviced, and all such
charges which are on December of each year past due and delinquent shall be
certified to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or
interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against
any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
   (B)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate and shall collect as
well all attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action. The
attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the Court.
   (C)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 10% annum.
(Ord. 117½, passed 2-26-86)
§ 52.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount determined by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day in which any such violation occurs
shall be deemed as a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any reason of such violation.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-26-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Establishment
   
53.02   Findings and determination
   
53.03   Storm sewer fee
   
53.04   Penalties and remedies for delinquencies
   
53.05   Establishment of fund
   
53.06   Exceptions
§ 53.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, the city establishes a storm drainage
utility and authorizes the imposition of just and reasonable charges for the
use and availability of storm drainage facilities.
   (B)   The storm drainage utility operations shall be a part of the Street
Department and under the administration of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 1, 2004 Series, passed 3-9-04)
§ 53.02 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city
has constructed, operated and maintained a storm drainage system.
      (2)   This chapter is adopted in further exercise of such authority and
responsibility for the same purpose.
   (B)   (1)   The system, as constructed heretofore, has been financed and
paid for through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes.
      (2)   It is now necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method
of recovering some or all of the future costs of improving, establishing,
enlarging, replacing, repairing, maintaining and operating the system through
the imposition of charges as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1, 2004 Series, passed 3-9-04)
§ 53.03 STORM SEWER FEE.
   (A)   Income for the storm sewer account will be generated from a fixed
monthly fee set by resolution of the City Council, billed to all residents who
currently are billed for sanitary sewer usage.
   (B)   The storm sewer utility fee will be added to city utility bills.
(Ord. 1, 2004 Series, passed 3-9-04; Ord. passed 12-28-21)
§ 53.04 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES FOR DELINQUENCIES.
   Penalties and remedies for late payments or nonpayment of billings are the
same as those applicable to billings for water and sanitary sewer service. (See
§§ 51.51, 52.114 and 52.115.)
(Ord. 1, 2004 Series, passed 3-9-04)
§ 53.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   (A)   All fees collected for the storm water utility shall be placed in a
fund for storm water purposes.
   (B)   Revenues shall be used to pay for the construction, reconstruction,
repair, enlargement, improvement or other obtainment, and the maintenance,
operation and use of the facilities, and all other purposes as permitted by
M.S. § 444.075.
(Ord. 1, 2004 Series, passed 3-9-04)
§ 53.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   City residents without sewer usage, public street right-of-way, and
vacant unimproved land with ground cover are exempt from storm water utility
charges.
   (B)   Residents with no sewer hook-ups are exempt from storm water drainage
charges.
(Ord. 1, 2004 Series, passed 3-9-04)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RESERVED
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
      
74.   SNOWMOBILES
      
75.   MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
      
76.   RESERVED
      
77.   SPECIAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Regulation Act incorporated by reference
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from
time to time, and all acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto are
adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways, streets and
alleys within the city and are incorporated in and made a part of this title as
completely as if set out here in full.
(Ord. 128, passed 9-10-57; Am. Ord. 128, passed 4-8-64)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted by
reference in this chapter shall be enforceable by the administrative offense
penalties authorized by §
96.09 of the Winnebago City Code if such administrative offense enforcement is
authorized by said adopted traffic regulation statute(s) under state law or by
the penalty provisions set forth in said traffic regulations for the same
offense at the sole discretion of the city.
(Am. Ord. --, passed 5-12-20)
CHAPTER 71: RESERVED
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Traffic Code
   
72.03   Parking restrictions
   
72.04   Residential streets
   
72.05   Truck routes
   
72.06   Parking; emergency weather conditions and snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalties
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. All vehicles propelled by any other than muscular power.
   OPERATOR. Every person driving or operating a motor vehicle upon the streets
in the city.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association or corporation owning or renting a
motor vehicle or having the exclusive use thereof under a lease or otherwise
for a period greater than 30 days.
(Ord. 72, passed 11-10-09)
§ 72.02 TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Exceptions. Any and all city owned vehicles or equipment. All
emergency service vehicles. Service or delivery vehicles are allowed on all
streets for the sole purpose of services or deliveries.
   (B)   General rule. The City Council shall retain the power to administer
temporary parking privileges or revoke any parking privileges, or erect signs
limiting parking in any area by recommendation of the police department.
(Ord. 72, passed 11-10-09)
§ 72.03 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   All vehicles on streets in the city and not in motion shall be parked on the
right hand side of the street in such manor as not to obstruct public travel,
with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Every motor vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way roadway,
including T.H. 169 where there is any adjacent curb shall be so stopped or
parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with and within 12
inches of the right hand curb.
   (B)   On all those portions of the streets that intersect Main Street, all
vehicles must park at an angle of 45 degrees from the curb where such angle
parking is designated by curb lines or street markings. No vehicle shall be
parked on or straddling any such markings.
   (C)   Parking in city lots is permitted, however, vehicles are required to
be moved to facilitate snow removal.
   (D)   There shall be no parking of any motor vehicle at any time on city
sidewalks or in a manner blocking a public or private driveway, or in the city
park or within the street right-of-way.
   (E)   There shall be no parking of any motor vehicle on the public alley of
the city, except for the purpose of loading and unloading, provided parking
shall be made with the least inconvenience to the passing traffic in said
alley.
   (F)   No trucks loaded with ensilage of any kind shall park on the streets
or alleys in the city.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the city police to cause any such motor
vehicle which is in violation of this section to be ticketed and/or removed by
a privately operated towing service and said vehicle shall not be released
until fees for towing and storage are paid in full; these fees to be in
addition to any fine for he violation of the regulations as herein after
stated.
(Ord. 72, passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 7, 20112 Series, passed 10-9-12 )
Editor’s Note:
   For parked cars creating a nuisance, see §
92.18.
§ 72.04 RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   No motor vehicles exceeding five tons per axle are allowed on any
residential street.
   (B)   No motor vehicles larger than one ton pickup are allowed on any
residential street.
   (C)   No semi truck-trailers are allowed on any residential streets.
(Ord. 72, passed 11-10-09)
§ 72.05 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Map. The city truck route map and all notations, references and data
shown thereon are adopted and made part of this chapter and will be on
permanent file for public inspection in City Hall. It shall be the
responsibility of the city to maintain the map, and amendments thereto shall be
recorded within 30 days after official publication of amendments.
   (B)   Signs. The city shall erect appropriate signs on streets designated
City Truck Route.
   (C)   Restrictions.
      (1)   All designated truck routes inside city limits have a ten ton per
axle limit.
      (2)   No trucks may block any alley or driveway.
      (3)   No truck parking within 75 feet of any intersection.
      (4)   No truck parking on any designated street for more than 12
consecutive hours in any 24 hour period.
      (5)   Refrigerated units running on a trailer are prohibited within 150
feet of a residence.
      (6)   No truck engine shall be left running for more than one hour.
      (7)   City Council has the right to revoke any individual paring
privileges within city limits upon request of the city police department.
(Ord. 72, passed 11-10-09)
§ 72.06 PARKING; EMERGENCY WEATHER CONDITIONS AND SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Application. The driver, operator, or owner of any motor vehicle or
vehicle within the city limits of the City of Winnebago shall conform to and
observe the regulations set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMERGENCY WEATHER CONDITION. A condition created on public rights-of-way
because of the presence of snowfall in excess of two inches, freezing rain,
sleet, or other natural phenomenon which create or are likely to create
hazardous road conditions, and impede the free movement of fire, health,
police, emergency, or vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Declaration of emergency weather condition. The Street Department
Supervisor, or his or her designee, is granted the authority to declare
emergency weather conditions. The announcement shall be made over local radio.
The announcement may also be given via other means, but shall not replace the
local radio. The announcement shall state the time period during which the
conditions shall exist. The time period may be extended through a second
announcement.
   (D)   Emergency weather parking regulations. During emergency weather
conditions it is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle on any public
street, avenue, or alley until the roadway has been fully and completely (curb-
to-curb) cleaned. These parking regulations shall not apply to operators of
wreckers or authorized emergency vehicles while actually serving mechanical,
fire, medical, or police emergencies.
   (E)   Removing and impounding vehicles. Any vehicle which is left parked or
standing on a public street during an emergency weather condition and in
violation of this section is hereby declared a nuisance and shall be subject to
a $25 fine or an amount as affixed by the City Council from time to time and
may be subject to impounding. The owner of any vehicle impounded as a result of
such nuisance shall be responsible for any and all costs related to the
impounding of said vehicle. The fine imposed on a vehicle pursuant to this
section shall not prevent or preclude the institution and prosecution of
proceedings for violation of this section against the vehicle owner.
   (F)   Public notice. Notice of the emergency weather parking provisions
shall be published in the official paper prior to November 1, every year.
Notice shall also be posted at City Hall at the time of publication.
(Ord. 8, 2012 Series, passed 10-9-12)
§ 72.99 PENALTIES.
   Violations of the provisions of
Chapter 72 shall be subject to the administrative offense penalties authorized
by §
96.09 of the Winnebago City Code or the provisions of §
10.99 of the Winnebago City Code if not properly adjudicated by the
administrative offense procedures of
Chapter 96 of the Winnebago City Code.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-12-20)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Lamp; reflector
   
73.02   Traffic regulations applicable
   
73.03   Operation regulations
Toy Vehicles
   
73.15   Use of paths set aside; compliance with traffic regulations
   
73.16   Operation regulations
 
   
73.99   Penalties
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 LAMP; REFLECTOR.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a lamp
on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear, except that an approved reflector may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Ord. 121, passed 3-13-56; Am. Ord. passed 12-12-23)
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle by this title, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 121, passed 3-13-56; Am. Ord. passed 12-12-23)
§ 73.03 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (C)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
   (D)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (E)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (F)   No person shall ride or park a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the
Business District.
   (G)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   (H)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the
handle bars.
   (I)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 121, passed 3-13-56; Am. Ord. passed 12-12-23)
TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.15 USE OF PATHS SET ASIDE; COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person in-line skating (roller blades), roller skating or skate
boarding upon a roadway, sidewalk or upon any path set aside for the use of in-
line skating, roller skating or skate boarding shall be subject to all the laws
applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle set forth in Minnesota Statutes and
other city ordinances regulating traffic in the city.
(Ord. 121.5, passed 7-13-94)
§ 73.16 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person using in-line skates, roller skates or skate boards shall
attach the same or themselves to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (B)   Every person operating in-line skates, roller skates or skate boards
upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
   (C)   No person shall in-line skate, roller skate or use a skate board on
any sidewalk within the B-2 Business District.
   (D)   Persons in-line skating, roller skating or skate boarding upon a
roadway, sidewalks or paths shall not ride more than two abreast and shall not
impede the normal and reasonable movements of traffic thereon.
   (E)   Whenever any person is in-line skating, roller skating or skate
boarding upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible and visual signal before overtaking and
passing such pedestrian.
   (F)   In-line skating, roller skating or skate boarding is prohibited at all
times on the following roadways located in the city, except for crossing over
or skating to the nearest side street: U.S. Highway 169 (Main Street),
Minnesota Highway 109 and C.S.A.H. 12 (First Avenue N.W.).
(Ord. 121.5, passed 7-13-94)
§ 73.99 PENALTIES.
   Violations of the provisions of
Chapter 73 shall be subject to the administrative offense penalties authorized
by §
96.09 of the Winnebago City Code or the provisions of §
10.99 of the Winnebago City Code if not properly adjudicated by the
administrative offense procedures of
Chapter 96 of the Winnebago City Code.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-12-20)
CHAPTER 74: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
74.01   Adoption by reference
   
74.02   Additional regulations
§ 74.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.88, as they may be
amended from time to time, are adopted as an ordinance regulating the operation
of snowmobiles on streets, highways and alleys within the city and are
incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as if set out
here in full.
(Ord. 148, passed 2-13-74)
§ 74.02 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Operate a snowmobile on any county, state or federal highway, except
to cross at a 90 degree angle on such roadway;
   (B)   Operate a snowmobile on any of the above and including city streets
under the age of 16, unless they have a valid Snowmobile Safety Certificate
issued by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) in their possession;
   (C)   Operate a snowmobile in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as
to endanger the person or property of others;
   (D)   Operate a snowmobile upon the premises of Parker Oaks, Garden Court
Apartments, Adolescent Treatment Center of Winnebago or any of the cities
parks;
   (E)   Operate a snowmobile within the city between the hours of 12:01 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m., except to pass through the city or for city residents to drive
to their homes in the shortest possible route, provided they use one of the
following routes: Seventh Avenue N.W. (entire street); from the corner of First
Street N.W. and Seventh Avenue N.W. to Third Avenue N.W.; from the corner of
First Street N.W. and Third Avenue N.W. to Second Street N.W.; from the corner
of Second Street N.W. and Third Avenue N.W. along Second Street N.W. to the
alley on west side of Second Street N.W.; Travel through alley between Second
Avenue N.W. and Third Avenue N.W. from Second Street N.W. to Sixth Street N.W.;
from said alley on the east side of Sixth Street N.W. to Sixth Avenue S.W.;
from the corner of Sixth Street S.W. and Sixth Avenue S.W. to First Street
S.W.; from the corner of First Street S.W. and Sixth Avenue S.W. to Fifth
Avenue S.W.; from the corner of First Street S.W. and Fifth Avenue S.W. to the
corner of Fourth Street S.E. and Fifth Avenue S.E.; from the corner of Fourth
Street S.E. and Fifth Avenue S.E. to Sixth Avenue S.E.; from the corner of
Fourth Street S.E. and Sixth Avenue S.E. to corporate limits on the east of
city. Also, snowmobiles may travel on the alley between Main Street South and
First Street S.W. from First Avenue S.W. to Fifth Avenue S.W. This allows
snowmobiles to come up into town (see map attached to Ord. 148, on file in the
office of the City Administrator- Clerk-Treasurer);
   (F)   Operate a snowmobile upon any sidewalk, pedestrian pathway, boulevard
or private property;
(Note: private property may be driven on with the consent of the property
owner.)
   (G)   A person operating a snowmobile within the city limits shall at all
times yield the right-of-way to all other motorized vehicles;
   (H)   The speed limit for all snowmobiles shall not exceed 15 miles per
hour, and any speed in excess thereof shall be unlawful and subject to a
citation.
(Ord. 148, passed 2-13-74; Am. Ord. 148, passed 2-12-97; Am. Ord. 148, passed
4-9-97) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Operation
   
75.02   Permit required
   
75.03   Application
   
75.04   Term of permit
   
75.05   Conditions of permit
   
75.06   Designation of roadways
   
75.07   Times of operation
   
75.08   Slow moving vehicle emblem
   
75.09   Crossing intersection highways
   
75.10   Application of traffic laws
   
75.11   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
75.12   Permit fee
 
   
75.99   Penalties
§ 75.01 OPERATION.
   Persons who are physically handicapped as defined in M.S. § 169.345, Subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time, are authorized to operate motorized
golf carts on designated roadways or portions thereof within the city.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart without obtaining a permit as
provided herein.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a permit shall be made to the city and shall contain
the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The nature of the applicant’s physical handicap;
   (C)   The roadways or portions thereof on which the motorized golf cart will
be operated;
   (D)   The time of operation of the motorized golf cart;
   (E)   Such other information as the city may require.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.04 TERM OF PERMIT.
   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and may be renewed
annually.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.05 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The applicant must demonstrate that he or she is a physically
handicapped person as defined in M.S. § 169.345, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   The applicant must submit a certificate signed by a physician that the
applicant is able to safely operate a motorized golf cart on the roadways
designated.
   (C)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.06 DESIGNATION OF ROADWAYS.
   The following roadways are prohibited for use of motorized golf carts:
   (A)   Highway 169 from the north city limits to the south city limits;
   (B)   County Road 12 from the east city limits to the west city limits; and
   (C)   State Highway 109 from Highway 169 to east city limits.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.07 TIMES OF OPERATION.
   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated during inclement weather or when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons in vehicles on the
roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.08 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM.
   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow moving vehicle emblem provided
in M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, when operated on
designated roadways.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.09 CROSSING INTERSECTION HIGHWAYS.
   The operator of a motorized golf cart may cross any street or highway which
has prohibited designation herein.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.10 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person operating a motorized golf cart under permit on roadways in the
city has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, except when the provisions cannot
reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and except as otherwise
specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.11 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City Council may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if
there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate the motorized golf
cart on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.12 PERMIT FEE.
   The City Council will charge an annual fee in an amount established from
time to time by Council resolution for the issuance of the permit. The permit
shall be valid from January 1 to December 31 of the calendar year.
(Ord. 176, passed 6-14-89)
§ 75.99 PENALTIES.
   Violations of the provisions of
Chapter 75 shall be subject to the administrative offense penalties authorized
by §
96.09 of the Winnebago City Code or the provisions of §
10.99 of the Winnebago City Code if not properly adjudicated by the
administrative offense procedures of
Chapter 96 of the Winnebago City Code.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-12-20)
CHAPTER 76: RESERVED
CHAPTER 77: SPECIAL VEHICLES
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Permit required
   
77.03   General operation
   
77.04   Permit conditions
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATV). A motorized flotation-tired vehicle of not less
than three low pressure tires, but not more than six tires, which is limited to
engine displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and a total dry weight
of less than 900 pounds.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over any special
vehicle defined in this chapter.
   MINI-TRUCKS. A motor vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an
electric motor or an internal combustion engine with an enclosed cabin and seat
for the vehicle operator, and commonly resembles a pickup or van, including
having a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with four wheels
with four low pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of less
than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than 800 pounds.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). As defined by M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 1(3), a
side-by-side, four-wheel drive off road vehicle, that has four wheels, is
propelled by an internal combustion engine with piston displacement capacity of
1,200 cubic centimeters or less and has a total dry weight of 1,800 but less
than 2,600 pounds.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
§ 77.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle,
all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck on streets, alleys, sidewalks or other
public property without obtaining a permit issued by the city.
   (B)   Every application for a permit under this chapter shall be made on a
form supplied by the city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The nature of the applicant’s phsycial handicap, if any.
      (3)   The model name, make, year, and number of the motorized golf cart,
UTV, ATV, or mini-truck.
      (4)   Other information as the city may require.
   (C)   Permit fee. The permit fee shall be set forth in the city’s fee
schedule as passed by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
   (D)   Permits shall be granted for a period of three years and may be
renewed.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
§ 77.03 GENERAL OPERATION.
   (A)   Operation on roadways, public lands, and public waterways. Special
vehicles may be operated on roadways, public lands, and public waterways only
as specified herein. It is unlawful to operate a special vehicle upon public
roadways, public lands and public waterways as follows:
      (1)   At a speed in excess of 15 miles per hour;
      (2)   Other than in single file on a roadway;
      (3)   Carelessly or recklessly;
      (4)   In a manner that damages public road right-of-way; and
      (5)   In a manner that violates either
Chapter 91 or
92 of this code.
   (B)   Private property. It is unlawful to operate a special vehicle on
private property without the permission or consent of the owner or legal
occupant.
   (C)   Minimum age of operation. It is unlawful for any person under 16 years
of age to operate a special vehicle on any public street, public land or public
waterway in the city unless he or she has in his or her immediate possession a
valid driver's license.
   (D)   Sidewalk and boulevards. It is unlawful to operate a special vehicle
on a sidewalk or boulevard except that an operator may cross a sidewalk,
boulevard or other right-of-way to obtain access to a street or alley if such
crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of
the sidewalk, boulevard or right-of-way when there is no pedestrian, vehicles,
or other immediate hazard to crossing.
   (E)   Hours of operation. It is unlawful to operate a special vehicle within
the city limits of the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
except when entering or leaving the city.
   (F)   Equipment. It is unlawful to operate a special vehicle unless it is
equipped with the following:
      (1)   At least one headlight and one taillight, each of minimum candle
powers prescribed by the rules of the Commissioner of Conservation; and
      (2)   Headlight(s) and taillight(s) on at all times.
   (G)   Helmet require for ATVs. A person less than 18 years of age shall not
operate an ATV on public land unless wearing a safety helmet approved by the
Chief of Police.
   (H)   Prohibitions on owner. It is unlawful for the owner of a special
vehicle to permit said vehicle to be operated in a way contrary to the terms of
this section.
   (I)   Operation prohibited. Operation of special vehicles is prohibited in
the following public areas:
      (1)   CSAH 54, CSAH 12, US Highway 169 and State Highway 109;
      (2)   All ditches within city limits; and
      (3)   All other public road rights-of-way when operation is prohibited by
another governmental entity's laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
§ 77.04 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   The applicant must demonstrate that he or she currently holds or
has held a valid Minnesota driver's license. The applicant may be required to
submit a certificate signed by a physician that the applicant is able to safely
operate a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or
mini-truck on the roadways so designated.
      (2)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the golf
cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck.
      (3)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as
the result of criminal proceedings.
   (B)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, and
mini-trucks are permitted to operate only on city streets, not state or federal
highways, except to cross at designated intersections.
   (C)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles and
mini-trucks may only be operated on designated roadways from sunrise to sunset.
They shall not be operated in inclement weather conditions or at any time when
there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway
at a distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving emblem provided for
in M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time, when operated on
designated roadways.
   (E)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, and
mini-trucks shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror to provide the driver
with adequate vision from behind as required by M.S. § 169.70.
   (F)   The operator of a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle or mini-truck may cross any street or highway intersecting a
designated roadway.
   (G)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart, a utility task vehicle,
an all-terrain vehicle, or a mini-truck under permit on designated roadways has
all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under
the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, except
when these provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and
except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 7, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The City Council may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon
a finding that the holder has violated any of the provisions of this section or
M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if there is evidence
that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart, utility
task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck on the designated roadways.
   (I)   The number of occupants on the golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, or mini-truck may not exceed the design occupant load.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor
or be subject to an administrative fine.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
91.   NOISE CONTROL
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   DRUG LABS AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
      
96.   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
90.01   Burning regulations
§ 90.01 BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Burning of leaves on private property.
      (1)   Regulations. The burning of leaves on private property is permitted
under the following conditions:
         (a)   The burning of leaves will only be permitted from October 1
through December 1;
         (b)   A responsible person shall be in constant attendance until the
fire is completely extinguished, and the fire will not be allowed to smolder
without flame;
         (c)   Burning will only be allowed between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. All fires are to be extinguished by 8:00 p.m.;
         (d)   The fires shall not be less than 50 feet from any structure,
wood fence, hedge or bush and no less than 15 feet from any property line;
         (e)   The burning of leaves is prohibited on city streets, boulevards
or any public property by private citizens;
         (f)   No open burning of leaves shall take place during an air
pollution alert warning or emergency declared by the State of Minnesota,
Faribault County or the City of Winnebago (for example, excessive dryness and
the like).
      (2)   Violations.
         (a)   Failure to extinguish a fire. Any person who starts and fails to
control or extinguish the fire, whether on owned property or on the property of
another, before the fire endangers or causes damages to the property of another
person or the state, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (b)   Failure to control a fire. Any person who fails to keep the fire
contained within the area described by this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (c)   Careless or negligent fires. Any person who carelessly or
negligently starts a fire that endangers or causes damage to the property of
another person or the state is guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (d)   Careless or negligent acts. Any person who participates in an
act involving careless or negligent use of motor vehicles, other internal
combustion engines, firearms with tracers or combustible wads, fireworks,
smoking material, electric fences, torches, flares or other burning or
smoldering substances whereby a fire is started and is not immediately
extinguished before the fire endangers or causes damage to the property of
another person or the state is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 167, passed 12-12-95)
   (B)   Burning of piled material, running fire or farm operation. The burning
of piled material, running fire or farm operation on any private property is
permitted under the following conditions:
      (1)   A permit must be obtained at the Municipal Center at least 36 hours
in advance of the proposed burn date. The permit is valid for open burning as
allowed and specified in Minn. Rules, parts 7005.0705 through 7005.0805, M.S. §
88.16, as they may be amended from time to time, Minnesota Uniform Fire Code
and this section. The cost of the permit is an amount established from time to
time by Council resolution;
      (2)   The burning will only be permitted between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. All fires are to be extinguished by 8:00 p.m.;
      (3)   The fires shall not be less than 50 feet from any structure, wood
fence, hedge or bush and not less than 15 feet from any property line;
      (4)   The burning of piled material, running fire or farm operation is
prohibited on any city street, boulevards, alleys or any public property by
private citizens;
      (5)   No open burning of piled material, running fire or farm operation
shall take place during an air pollution alert warning or emergency declared by
the State of Minnesota, Faribault County or the City of Winnebago;
      (6)   A responsible person shall be in constant attendance until the fire
is completely extinguished, and the fire will not be allowed to smolder without
flame;
      (7)   Two officers of the Fire Department shall inspect each site prior
to burning, and any recommendations pertaining to the burning of piled
material, running fire or farm operation shall be followed or the permit will
become revoked;
      (8)   The permittee must keep the burning under control and assume
responsibility for all damages and costs that may result from burning done
under this division (B), use a clean burning device to start the fire, and a
prevailing wind must be away from any nearby occupied buildings. The permittee
must extinguish the fire immediately if this permit is revoked;
      (9)   Not to burn paper or cardboard except as provided under M.S. §
17.135, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (10)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils,
rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other materials which produce
excessive or noxious smoke, including but not limited to tires, railroad ties,
chemically treated lumber, composite shingles, tar paper, wiring, insulation,
composition board, sheet rock, paint or paint filters;
      (11)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste as defined in M.S. § 116.06, Subd. 11, as it may be amended from time to
time, and applicable commissioner’s rules;
      (12)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of solid
waste generated from an industrial or manufacturing process or from a service
or commercial structure;
      (13)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of burnable
building material generated from demolition of commercial or institutional
structures;
      (14)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit salvage operations by
open burning;
      (15)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the processing of motor
vehicles by open burning;
      (16)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, serving, processing, storage, preparation
or consumption of food.
   (C)   Recreational burning.
      (1)    Regulations.
         (a)   Recreational fires shall have a maximum size of 30 inches in
diameter at the base of the fire, and a maximum of 30 inches in height.
         (b)   Recreational fires shall be contained in a circular pit, the
diameter of which shall be a maximum of 30 inches, and a perimeter of which
shall consist of steel, rock, brick or other noncombustible material.
         (c)   Recreational fires must be at least 20 feet from any property
line that abuts another private property or public property.
         (d)   Recreational fires shall not be permitted closer than 25 feet to
any structure or combustible material.
         (e)   1.   A person must attend recreational fires at all times.
            2.   It shall be unlawful to have a recreational fire burning
without a person present attending the fire.
         (f)   No person shall burn leaves, garbage, trash, rubbish, litter,
organic waste, animal residue, tires, treated wood, varnished or coated lumber,
or green or fresh cut wood, or other solid waste materials in a recreational
fire.
         (g)   Chemical-free dry wood is the only substance that may be burned
in a recreational fire.
         (h)   Water, sand or other material or device to extinguish the
recreational fire must be readily available at all times.
         (i)   Recreational fires are not permitted when winds exceed 15 miles
per hour, or when the Fire Chief or other governmental agency has issued a no
fire order.
         (j)   Recreational fires must be extinguished to the point of being
cold before being left unattended.
         (k)   Recreational fires posing a nuisance, as defined by the code of
ordinances, or which pose a health or fire hazard must be extinguished.
         (l)   Recreational fires can only be used between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 12:00 a.m. midnight.
      (2)   Recreational fire violations.
         (a)   Failure to extinguish a fire: §
90.01(A)(2)(a) shall apply.
         (b)   Failure to control a fire: §
90.01(A)(2)(b) shall apply.
         (c)   Careless or negligent fires: §
90.01(A)(2)(c) shall apply.
      (3)   Exceptions to the open burning restrictions.
         (a)   Recreational fires as described above.
         (b)   Fire contained in charcoal grills, camp stoves or other cooking
and heating devices.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   Failure to extinguish a fire. Any person who starts and fails to
control or extinguish the fire, whether on owned property or on the property of
another, before the fire endangers or causes damages to the property of another
person or the state, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Failure to control a permit fire. Any person who has a burning
permit and fail to keep the permitted fire contained within the area described
on the burning permit or who fails to keep the fire restricted to the materials
specifically listed on the burning permit is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Careless or negligent fires. Any person who carelessly or
negligently starts a fire that endangers or causes damage to the property of
another person or the state is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (4)   Careless or negligent acts. Any person who participates in an act
involving careless or negligent use of motor vehicles other internal combustion
engines, firearms with tracers or combustible wads, fireworks, smoking
material, electric fences, torches, flares or other burning or smoldering
substances whereby a fire is started and is not immediately extinguished before
the fire endangers or causes damage to the property of another person or the
state is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 167.5, passed 1-11-95; Am. Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 12-9-03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   Unlawful to make loud noise or unnecessary noises
   
91.02   Unlawful acts
§ 91.01 UNLAWFUL TO MAKE LOUD NOISE OR UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to make any loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise that annoys, disturbs or affects the comfort,
repose, health or peace of others.
(Ord. 169.5, passed 4-8-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   The acts set forth in the following divisions are declared to be loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The repeated sounding of any
horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle, except
as a danger warning.
   (B)   Radios, tape and disc players and the like. The using, operating or
permitting to be played any radio receiving set, tape or disc player, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such a manner, considering the time and place and the
purpose for which the sound is produced, as to disturb the peace, quiet or
repose of a person or persons of ordinary sensibilities.
      (1)   The play, use or operation of any radio, tape or disc player,
musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance
of 100 feet from such machine or device shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
      (2)   When sound violating this section is produced or reproduced by a
machine or device that is located in or on a vehicle, the vehicle’s owner is
guilty of the violation, provided, however, that if the vehicle’s owner is not
present at the time of violation, the person in charge or control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation is guilty of the violation.
      (3)   The section shall not apply to sound produced by the following:
         (a)   Amplifying equipment used in connection with activities which
are authorized, sponsored or permitted by the city, so long as the activity is
conducted pursuant to the conditions of the license, permit or contract
authorizing such activity;
         (b)   Church bells, chimes or carillons;
         (c)   School bells;
         (d)   Anti-theft devices;
         (e)   Machines or devices for the production of sound on or in
authorized emergency vehicles.
      (4)   With the exception of the machines or devices listed in subsection
(3), this section shall apply to all radios, tape and disc players, musical
instruments, phonographs and machine and devices for the production or
reproduction of sound, whether on public or private property.
   (C)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to
any building or structure.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling or shouting at any time or
place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
office or in any dwelling, hotel, motel or other place of residence or of any
person in the vicinity.
   (E)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal which is
causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of
any persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Whistles or sirens. The blowing of a locomotive whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler or any siren whatsoever except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work as a warning of fire or danger,
by public emergency vehicles or the city’s time clock whistle.
   (G)   Sound trucks for advertising purposes. The use of sound trucks or any
other vehicle equipped with sound amplifying devices for the purposes of
advertising any program, project or meeting of any public agency, private
business, religious organization, civic group, political party or charitable
organization.
   (H)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and all day Sunday, except where single
individuals or families work on single-family residences for their own
occupancy owned by them, except that the Building Official may, in cases of
emergency, grant permission to repair at any time when they find that such
repair work will not affect the health and safety of the persons in the
vicinity.
   (I)   Pile drivers, hammers and the like. The operation between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any pile driver, power shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, power or electric hoist or other appliance the use of which is
attended by loud or unusual noise.
   (J)   Noisy parties and gatherings.
      (1)   Prohibition. No person shall, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m., congregate at or participate in any party or gathering of two or
more people from which noise emanates of a sufficient volume so as to disturb
the peace, quiet or repose of another person. No person shall knowingly remain
at such a noisy party or gathering.
      (2)   Evidence. Noise of such volume as to be clearly audible at a
distance of 100 feet from the structure or building in which the party or
gathering is occurring, or in the case of an apartment building, in the
adjacent hallway or apartment, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
      (3)   Duty of disperse. When a public safety officer determines that a
party or gathering is in violation of this section, the officer may order all
persons present at the premises where the violation is occurring, other than
the owner or tenants of the premises, to disperse immediately. No person shall
knowingly remain at such a party or gathering.
      (4)   Exceptions. The following are exempt from violation of this
section:
         (a)   Activities which are duly authorized, sponsored or licensed by
the city, so long as the activity is conducted pursuant to the conditions of
the license, permit or contract authorizing such activity;
         (b)   Person who has gone to a party for the sole purpose of abating
the violations.
      (5)   Violations. Every owner or tenant of the premises where a party or
gathering in violation of this section occurs, who is present at such party or
gathering, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who refuses to disperse from
a party or gathering in violation of this section after being ordered by a
public safety officer to do so is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 169.5, passed 4-8-98; Am. Ord. 169.5, passed 6-13-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Assessable current services
   
92.02   Trees and shrubs
   
92.03   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
92.15   Public nuisance
   
92.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.19   Special provisions - building maintenance and appearance
   
92.20   Special provisions - outside parking and storage
   
92.21   Special provisions - abandoned or inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.22   Special provisions - lawn maintenance
   
92.23   Buildings or structures that endanger public safety, health, or
property within the city
   
92.24   Duties of city officers
   
92.25   Abatement
   
92.26   Filing complaint
Recreational Vehicles
   
92.35   Short title
   
92.36   Purpose
   
92.37   Definitions
   
92.38   Standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other
person designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public
sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24
hours after any matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
to fall. The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person
shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot
and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Administrator-Clerk- Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Title V
of this code, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys. The owner of any property within the
city abutting a public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in
repair and safe for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the
standard specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office
of the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, or other designated
official, shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type
of current service and charges under this section against each separate lot or
parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may
then spread the charges against property benefitted as a special assessment
under the authority of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time,
and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Boulevard regulations. New trees, herbaceous plants or shrubs shall be
planted at least five feet behind what is designated as the curb, plantings
shall be reviewed by both the City Engineer and Public Works Department, and
they shall be planted in a manner consistent with the terms of this section.
“Boulevard” is defined as that part of the public right-of-way which exists
between the edge of the street and the beginning of a private landowner's
property line. Planting shall be permitted by permit only.
      (1)   The owner of a lot fronting on or adjacent to any portion of a
street shall maintain any trees, shrubs, hedges or other landscaping along said
street or within the street right-of way adjacent to his or her property in
such non-dangerous condition that the trees, shrubs, hedges or other
landscaping will not interfere with the public convenience or safety in the use
of the streets and sidewalks. Owners shall maintain such street trees so that
there is a minimum nine-foot vertical pedestrian clearance from the top of the
sidewalk and a minimum 16 foot vertical vehicular clearance from the top of the
curb to any part of a street tree. All plantings shall be reviewed to address
future utility improvement conflict avoidance.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, maintenance of trees, shrubs, hedges
and other landscaping includes but is not limited to, deep root watering, root
pruning, installing root barriers, clearance and structural trimming,
fertilizing, pest control, and removal of branches, leaves and other debris. In
the case of removal due to utility/street construction impacts, the City
Engineer shall dictate and transmit a final removal plan to the City Council.
      (3)   Property owners required by this section to maintain trees, shrubs,
hedges and other landscaping shall owe a duty to members of the public using
public streets and sidewalks to maintain such trees, shrubs, hedges or other
landscaping in compliance with provisions under this title and city adopted
pruning guidelines, in a safe and non-dangerous condition for users of the
public streets and sidewalks.
      (4)   If any fronting or adjacent property owner fails to maintain any
adjacent trees, shrubs, hedges or other landscaping in a non-dangerous
condition as required by this section, and any person suffers damage or injury
to person or property, the fronting or adjacent property owner shall be liable
for all damages or injuries caused by the failure of the owner to maintain
these areas.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   No person shall plant trees, herbaceous plants or shrubs in a
public boulevard without first obtaining a permit from the city to do so.
      (2)   The following provisions apply to the issuance of permits for
planting trees or herbaceous plants or shrubs on a public boulevard.
         (a)   The application. An application for a permit shall state the
number of trees, herbaceous plants or shrubs to be planted or removed, the
location, size and specific species of each tree, herbaceous plant or shrub.
The application shall be filed with the City Clerk/Administrator with the
correct permit fee as set by resolution of the City Council.
         (b)   Standards for issuance. Permits shall be issued after the
application has been determined to be in compliance with Title XV as determined
by the City Clerk/Administrator.
         (c)   Replacement. As a condition to granting a tree permit, the city
may require the applicant to relocate or replace trees in a manner consistent
with Title XV. Additionally, the replacement tree must be of an approved tree
species that is approved and designated by the Minnesota DNR and specified on a
list of approved tree species approved and adopted by the City Council from
time to time.
         (d)   Permit denial. If a tree planting or permit is denied, the
reasons for denial shall be set forth in writing given to the applicant. The
permit fee collected at the time of application shall be refunded to the
applicant.
         (e)   Denial appeal. Any applicant adversely affected by the decision
may appeal to the City Council.
   (C)   Areas not applicable.
      (1)   The removal of trees on public easements/rights-of-way, conducted
by or on behalf of federal, state, county, or municipal or other governmental
agency in pursuance of its lawful activities or functions in construction or
improvements;
      (2)   The removal of any tree by a public utility when such tree has the
reasonable potential of endangering the facilities operation by the utility.
   (D)   Prohibitive obstructions.
      (1)   Obstructing view. No tree or herbaceous plant or shrub shall be
planted or allowed to grow so as to obstruct the view of any vehicular traffic
on streets or pathways or pedestrians on pathways.
      (2)   Utilities. No tree may be planted under or within ten lateral feet
of any overhead utility wire or over or within ten lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, gas, phone cable, electrical wire,
communication cable, or any other buried utilities.
   (E)   Trimming of trees, hedges, shrubs or other plantings. Private property
trees, hedges, shrubs or other plantings must be trimmed so as not to cause a
hazard to persons or property on abutting property. All trees shall be pruned
to sufficient height to allow free passage to pedestrians and vehicular traffic
nine feet over sidewalks and 16 feet over streets. All such plantings shall be
located 30 feet distant from any intersection. Plantings other than trees in
the public right of way must be kept lower than three feet in height.
   (F)   Tree ordinance fees. Fees for all permits and other applicable
required city services under this section shall be as set forth in the city fee
schedule as periodically set by the City Council.
   (G)   Emergencies. In the case of emergencies involving but not limited to
tornados, wind storms, floods, freezes or other natural disasters, the
requirements of this section may be waived by the Mayor, or in the absence of
the Mayor, the acting Mayor.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
§ 92.03 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylurgopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Administrator/Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a
record of the costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for
which assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the
land, lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator/Clerk/ Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each
abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable
under this section. The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion
thereof against the property involved as a special assessment as authorized by
M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection the following
year along with the current taxes.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance as defined in §§
92.16-
92.22 of the Winnebago City Code. A person must not maintain, allow or permit a
public nuisance to exist on property that the person owns, occupies or
otherwise controls as set forth in §§
92.16-
92.22 of the Winnebago City Code. A violation of any of the provisions of §§
92.16-
92.22 of the Winnebago City Code can be subject to the administrative offenses
penalties as established from time to time by resolution of the City Council
per §
96.09 of the Winnebago City Code or charged as a misdemeanor violation as set
forth in §
10.99 of the Winnebago City Code.
(Am. Ord. passed 6 - -2019; Am. Ord. 92.15, passed 5-12-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
    The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders in quantities
sufficient to make the occupancy of property uncomfortable to a person of
ordinary sensibilities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Breeding sites of the aedes triseriatus (tree hole mosquito),
including unused tires (not mounted on wheels), pots, pans, cans, pails,
bottles and other containers left outdoors in which water or debris may
accumulate; and
   (L)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Am. Ord. passed 6 - -2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
    The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by Federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Am. Ord. passed 6 - -2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
    The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace, safety
and general welfare:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24-hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet above the surface of
any public sidewalk or less than 14 feet above the surface of any street, and
all other limbs or trees which are so close to the surface of the sidewalk or
street so as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles as identified by
the City Inspector or a peace officer;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as it
may be amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated by reference
into this code;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings, wires and other similar structures over
streets and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (I)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (J)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (L)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (M)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (N)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (S)   Any vehicle parked in residential areas must be licensed, if
applicable, intact and operational according to M.S. Chapter 169, must possess
tires with sufficient tread, working lights, must not be creating a health and
safety hazard, and must be able to pass a road safety check as determined by
the Public Safety Department.
   (T)   Leaving or displaying anything for sale on public or private property,
except that an owner of an item for sale may display it on property that the
person owns or otherwise controls;
   (U)   Piling, storing or keeping of old machinery, junk, furniture,
household furnishings or appliances or component parts of them or other debris;
   (V)   Depositing of, permitting or failing to remove, garbage, trash,
rubbish, bottles, cans and other refuse on any property, including large
quantities of organic debris and materials that accumulated by other than
natural means, except neatly maintained compost piles;
   (W)   Property that has been disturbed by construction, grading, or other
activity and is not seeded, sodded, or otherwise planted with a ground cover
within 240 days, unless the 240 days expires between November 1 and May 15, in
which case the ground cover must be established by the following July 15,
unless the city approves a time extension;
   (X)   The accumulation of any piles of wood that are not:
      (1)   Neatly stacked; or
      (2)   Stacked or secured in a stable manner to avoid collapse.
   (Y)   Construction materials, including piles of dirt, sand, and sod, left
in the open on property more than 60 days after construction has been completed
or a certificate of occupancy has been issued, whichever occurred first;
   (Z)   A truck or other vehicle whose wheels or tires deposit mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or other material on any street or highway;
   (AA)   Discarded construction material or other litter at a construction
site that is not placed in an adequate waste container or that is allowed to
blow around or off the site;
   (BB)   Erosion or stockpiling of any material onto a public street that is
not part of a public improvement; or erosion or drainage from a property when
it is causing, or has the likelihood of causing, serious harm to neighboring
property or to natural resources such as significant trees, water bodies,
wetlands, and wetland buffers. Serious harm includes actual damage as well as
interference with reasonable use of the property;
   (CC)   The intentional discharge of items such as leaves, grass clippings,
pet feces, solvents, antifreeze, oil, fireplace ashes, paint, and cement
rinsate into a street, or storm sewer system; and
   (DD)   A structure, or a portion of a structure, located in a residential
zoning district, if the exterior is not completed in accordance with city-
approved construction plans within 180 days after the date that the city
building permit was issued.
(Am. Ord. 5, Second Series, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. passed 6 - -2019)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19 SPECIAL PROVISIONS - BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences, and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence, or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
         (c)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
         (d)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
         (e)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows, and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
         (f)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit
water. All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
         (g)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections
must be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be
secured properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
         (h)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
(Ord. passed 6 - -2019)
§ 92.20 SPECIAL PROVISIONS - OUTSIDE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following words have the
meanings specified below.
      DUMPSTER. A unit that is intended to be used primarily for the disposal
of waste material, that is owned by a contractor licensed for disposal
services, and that has a capacity larger than 100 gallons.
      FRONT YARD AREA. All that area between the front property line and a line
drawn along the front face or faces of the principal structure on the property
and extended to the side property lines. The front side of the property will be
determined as specified in the zoning ordinance.
      OUTSIDE. To be outside of an enclosed storage facility and visible from
any other property.
      PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. A unit that is constructed to make it
portable and capable of movement from one site to another, that can be or is
used for the storage of personal property of any kind, that is located outside
of an enclosed building, that is larger than 40 cubic feet, and that is not a
permanent accessory building or shed complying with all building codes and
zoning requirements.
      TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure or unit over 120 square feet in size,
consisting of a frame that is covered at any time with a covering made of
plastic, fabric, canvas, metal, fiberglass or similar material, that does not
require a building permit, that is not intended for human occupancy, and that
is intended or used to provide storage for vehicles, boats, recreational
vehicles, or other personal property, whether fully or partially covered.
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE includes structures commonly known as hoop houses, canopy-
covered carports and tent garages, but does not include structures that are in
place for less than five days, structures that have been constructed pursuant
to a building permit issued by the city, and boat lifts and canopies that are
placed in public waters.
      VEHICLE OR VEHICLES. A motor vehicle or trailer as defined in M.S. §
169.01, including pioneer, classic collector and street rod vehicles, but
excluding the following:
         (a)   Small trailers that are clearly designed to be used for general
yard and garden purposes and not for travel on the roadways;
         (b)   Snowmobiles;
         (c)   All-terrain vehicles as defined in M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 8;
         (d)   One 40-foot camper or one ice house; and
         (e)   A combination of four or less trailers which may include but not
limited to a trailer designed for road hauling, a snowmobile trailer, a trailer
for four-wheelers, and a boat trailer.
   (B)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of portable storage containers, dumpsters, large
numbers of vehicles, and vehicles, materials, supplies or equipment not
customarily used for residential purposes in violation of the requirements set
forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (C)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, or other similar non-permanent structures
outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area of
residentially-zoned property unless more than 100 feet back from the front
property line.
      (2)   No outside storage of personal property is allowed, except items to
be used in conjunction with normal outdoor residential activities on the
property, such as outdoor furniture and cooking equipment, recreational
equipment, and construction and landscaping material and equipment that is used
or intended to be used on the property in a period no longer than three months
or in connection with a building permit on the property.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residentially-zoned property unless it
complies with the following requirements.
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on R-l and R-2 zoned property, except as
otherwise permitted or required by the city because of non-residential
characteristics of the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles
of occasional guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
         (d)   No recreational vehicle or vehicle for sale may be parked on the
portion of private property and undeveloped public right-of way that is within
ten feet of the paved portion of a public street, except on a driveway that is
shorter than 40 feet long measured from the street pavement.
      (4)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the placement
or existence of a dumpster outside on property that is improved as a single
family or two family residence, unless it complies with the following
requirements:
         (a)   A dumpster must be placed only on a paved or graveled parking or
driveway area as far away from the public street as reasonably possible, or on
another area approved by the community development director;
         (b)   A dumpster may not be on the paved portion of a public street;
         (c)   A dumpster must be used only in connection with:
            1.   Construction activity that has been properly permitted by the
city, in which case it may remain no longer than 180 days in any 12-month
period; or
            2.   The clean-up of property, in which case it may remain for no
longer than 30 days in any 12-month period;
         (d)   There can be no more than one dumpster per parcel; and
         (e)   A dumpster must be maintained in a reasonably sound condition,
with no holes and little rust or peeling paint.
      (5)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the placement
or existence of a portable storage container outside on property that is
improved as a single family or two-family residence unless it complies with the
following requirements:
         (a)   A portable storage container must be placed only on a paved or
graveled parking or driveway area as far away from the public street as
reasonably possible, or on another area approved by the community development
director;
         (b)   A portable storage container may not be on the paved portion of
a public street;
         (c)   A parcel of land may have any portable storage container on it
no longer than 30 consecutive days. A new period of 30 days may begin after 15
days have elapsed. There can be no more than three 30-day periods on one parcel
in any 12-month period;
         (d)   A portable storage container may remain on the parcel longer
than 30 days if it is being used in conjunction with remodeling or other
construction on the site but only for no longer than 180 days in any 12-month
period;
         (e)   The portable storage container must have attached to it a
placard on a form to be provided by the city that includes the container
identification number, the date of placement on the property, the date that
removal is scheduled to occur, and the local telephone number of the owner of
the container;
         (f)   The total size of all portable storage containers simultaneously
on a parcel of land cannot exceed 2,000 cubic feet;
         (g)   A portable storage container must be maintained in a reasonably
sound condition, with no holes and little rust or peeling paint; and
         (h)   A portable storage container may only be provided by a person or
organization that is licensed by the city to conduct this kind of business.
      (6)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the placement
or existence of a temporary structure outside on property that is improved as a
single family or two-family residence unless it complies with the following
requirements:
         (a)   The person must have in effect a current and valid permit
obtained from the city after submitting an application on the city's approved
form and paying the appropriate fee;
         (b)   The structure may be in place no longer than six months in any
12-month period, and when not in place, the component parts of the structure
must be stored where they cannot be viewed from any other property;
         (c)   The structure must meet the setback requirements for an
accessory structure and be located behind the front line of the principal
structure as extended to the sides of the property. The applicant is
responsible for establishing the location of the property lines;
         (d)   There can be no more than one temporary structure per parcel,
the structure may not exceed 600 square feet, and the structure is in addition
to the accessory structures and storage shed allowed by the zoning ordinance;
         (e)   The structure must be sufficiently anchored to withstand
overturning, uplifting, or sliding from a 90-mile-an-hour wind; and
         (f)   The structure must be able to withstand a snow load of 40 pounds
per square foot if the structure will be in place at any time during the months
of November, December, January, February, March, or April.
   (D)   Exceptions. The prohibitions of this section do not apply to the
following:
      (1)   A motor truck, pickup truck or similar vehicle being used by a
public utility, moving company, or similar company, that is actually being used
to service a residence not belonging to or occupied by the operator of the
vehicle; and
      (2)   A vehicle that is actually making a pickup or delivery at the
location where it is parked. Parking for any period of time beyond the period
of time reasonably necessary to make the pickup or delivery and in excess of
the two-hour limit is unlawful.
   (E)   Abatement. A police officer or other authorized person may order a
vehicle constituting a public nuisance under divisions (C)(3) and (4) above to
be immediately removed and impounded. The impounded vehicle will be surrendered
to the owner by the towing contractor only upon payment of the required
impound, towing and storage fees.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 92.21 SPECIAL PROVISIONS - ABANDONED OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following words have the
meanings specified below.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that has remained for a period of more
than 48-hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component parts, or
that has remained in an inoperable condition for a period of more than 48-hours
on private property with or without consent of the person in control of the
property, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It also
means a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to the city or to a
towing contractor hired by the city for its removal.
      INOPERABLE CONDITION. That the vehicle has no substantial potential use
consistent with its usual function, and includes a vehicle that:
         (a)   Has a missing or defective part that is necessary for the normal
operation of the vehicle;
         (b)   Is stored on blocks, jacks or other supports; or
         (c)   Has not had a current vehicle license for at least six months.
      JUNK VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is in an inoperable condition, that is
partially dismantled, that is used for sale of parts or as a source of repair
or replacement parts for other vehicles, or that is kept for scrapping,
dismantling, or salvage of any kind, unless the vehicle is kept in an enclosed
garage or storage building. A JUNK VEHICLE is also an abandoned vehicle for the
purpose of this chapter.
      MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning contained in M.S. § 169.01.
      VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of the motor vehicle that are
essential to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not
limited to, the motor, drive train, and wheels.
   (B)   Vehicles constituting a public nuisance.
      (1)   Abandoned and junk vehicles are a public nuisance creating a hazard
to the health and safety of the public because they invite plundering, create
fire hazards, attract vermin, and present physical dangers to the safety and
well-being of children and other citizens. The accumulation and outside storage
of these vehicles is in the nature of rubbish, litter, and unsightly debris and
is a blight on the landscape and a detriment to the environment.
      (2)   A vehicle, whether occupied or not, that is found stopped,
standing, or parked in violation of a ordinance or state statute; that is
reported stolen; or that is found impeding firefighting, snow removal or
plowing or the orderly flow of traffic, is a public nuisance.
      (3)   A vehicle that is impeding public road or utility repair,
construction or maintenance activities if reasonable notice of the proposed
activities was given to the vehicle owner or user at least 12 hours in advance,
is a public nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement.
      (1)   Impounding. A police officer or other authorized person may order a
vehicle constituting a public nuisance to be immediately removed and impounded.
The impounded vehicle will be surrendered to the owner by the towing contractor
only upon payment of the required impound, towing and storage fees.
      (2)   Sale. Notice and sale of a vehicle impounded under this chapter
will be conducted in accordance with M.S. Ch. 168B, governing the sale of
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 92.22 SPECIAL PROVISIONS - LAWN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Preamble. 
      (1)   The City Council finds that there are a variety of landscapes in
the city that add diversity and a richness to the quality of life. Certain
areas in the city have been left, or allowed to go, unmaintained. These have
been accepted by the vast majority of the city residents as appropriate and as
part of the unique quality of life in this community. There are community
expectations, however, that once an area has been disturbed, landscaped, or
otherwise maintained, that area will continue to be maintained in a consistent
manner. When vegetation in that area is not continually maintained, it becomes
aesthetically unpleasing and violates community standards. Property that
appears neglected may decrease the value of adjacent properties. In addition,
if vegetation is not properly maintained, there may be the following adverse
impacts on public health, safety, and welfare:
         (a)   Undesirable vegetation such as common buckthorn, quackgrass, and
other weeds may invade and threaten to supplant other more desirable
vegetation;
         (b)   Vegetation that causes allergic reactions, such as ragweed, may
develop; and
         (c)   Tall vegetation along driveways and public roads may impair
visibility when entering or exiting public roads.
      (2)   The City Council also finds that it is in the public interest to
allow citizens to choose the type of landscaping on their properties and to
make changes in that vegetation. As a protection for the larger community,
however, this change in vegetation must be properly managed and maintained and
the length of the transition period must be minimized. The council finds that
the establishment of prairie and meadow plant communities is an acceptable
landscape treatment in the city. This requires special consideration, however,
because weeds will grow during the first few years of transition before the new
vegetation predominates and will appear like neglect. Therefore, the Council
finds that this type of vegetation is acceptable if it is properly maintained
to shorten the transition period and if notice is given of the intended result.
In contrast, the transition to trees and other woody species does not require
special consideration because untended grass or weeds are not a necessary part
of that transition period. Rather, the transition period is shortened by
eliminating competition around the seedlings through such techniques as organic
mulch.
      (3)   The City Council enacts this ordinance to balance the public
interest in a variety of vegetation with the public need to ensure proper
maintenance of that vegetation. The council finds that establishing a height
limitation for certain vegetation is in the best interest of the public health,
safety, and welfare as outlined above and is a reasonable maintenance standard.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following words have the
meanings specified below.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the state of Minnesota, and that are commonly found
in meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. Those plants so designated by the state of Minnesota under
M.S. § 18.171, Subd. 5.
      REGULARLY CUT. Mowing or otherwise cutting the vegetation so that it does
not exceed six inches in height.
      TURF GRASSES. Grasses commonly used in regularly cut lawn areas, such as
bluegrass, fescue and rye grass blends, and nonwoody vegetation interspersed
with them.
      WEEDS. Include all noxious weeds, buffalobur, burdock, common cocklebur,
crabgrass, dandelions, jimsonweed, quackgrass, common and giant ragweed, field
sandbur, velvetleaf, and wild sunflower. WEEDS also include anything that is
horticulturally out of place. For example, a tree seedling is a weed in a
vegetable garden. A property owner may establish that a plant or plants are not
horticulturally out of place by providing a written landscape plan for the area
in question, complete with a listing and locations of plant species. The plants
specifically listed above may not be included within the landscape plan.
Vegetation that does not comply with this plan are weeds.
   (C)   Maintenance standard. The maintenance standard in this section applies
to property that has been developed with a building as defined in the building
code, including vacant property combined with developed property for tax
purposes, and a parcel of property that has been completely or partially
disturbed by demolition, grading or other means in preparation for development
or redevelopment.
      (1)   All turf grasses and weeds must not exceed a height of six inches,
measured from the base at ground level to the tip of each stalk, stem, blade,
or leaf.
      (2)   This requirement does not apply to the following:
         (a)   A wetland or floodplain designated in the zoning ordinance and
required wetland buffers or those voluntarily created by a private land owner
when compatible with the character of the neighborhood;
         (b)   A drainage pond or ditch that stores or conveys stormwater;
         (c)   A pasture that is:
            1.   Currently being used only for the exercise or feeding of
domestic hoofed animals;
            2.   Physically surrounded by a permanent fence that separates the
pasture from property used for other purposes;
            3.   At least one-half acre in size; and
            4.   Undeveloped with any habitable buildings.
         (d)   An area in which the land and vegetation appears not to have
been graded, landscaped, mowed, or otherwise disturbed by human or mechanical
means at any time. Determination of what constitutes this type of area will be
based on a reasonable judgment of the present appearance of the area. The
recent history of the area may be relevant to this determination; and
         (e)   An area established with meadow vegetation if:
            1.   The prior vegetation is eliminated, and the meadow vegetation
is planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means;
            2.   The area is cut at least once per year to a height of no more
than six inches, if weeds cover more than 25% of the area; and
            3.   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be
seen by the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established.
This sign is required only if the meadow vegetation is in an area likely to be
seen by the public. This sign must be in addition to any sign permitted by the
sign ordinance but must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than
one square foot, and no higher than three feet tall. The sign is no longer
required when weeds cover 25% or less of the area.
   (D)   Declaration of public nuisance. The following are public nuisances
subject to abatement under this chapter:
      (1)   Noxious weeds;
      (2)   Vegetation that does not meet the maintenance standard specified in
division (C) above; and
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 92.23 BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES THAT ENDANGER PUBLIC SAFETY, HEALTH OR PROPERTY
WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   A building or structure in the city is a public nuisance affecting
public safety and health if the City Building Official or Fire Chief find it to
be dangerous to public safety, health or to other property by reason of:
      (1)   Damage by fire;
      (2)   Defective chimneys or stovepipes;
      (3)   Dilapidated condition or decay;
      (4)   Defective electric wiring;
      (5)   Defective gas installation;
      (6)   Defective heating apparatus;
      (7)   Defective sewage disposal system or plumbing; or
      (8)   Any other defect endangering the public safety, health or other
property.
   (B)   The building inspector or the fire marshal may order the nuisance
abated by ordering its repair, correction or removal. This order must be in
writing and must order the repair, correction or removal of the nuisance within
30 days or other time that the building inspector or fire chief deems
reasonable. This order must be served upon the owner, the lessee or the
occupant by mail or by personal service. The order may provide that the
building or structure not be further used or occupied until the repair or
correction of the defect.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 92.24 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Police Department or Sheriff, if the city has at the time no Police
Department, shall enforce the provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace
officer shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances as provided in §
10.98.
(Am. Ord. passed 6 - -2019)
§ 92.25 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Standard abatement. 
      (1)   Except for the abatement of public nuisance vehicles governed by §
92.21 and except as otherwise provided under divisions (B), (C) and (D) below,
the following abatement procedure applies to all public nuisances. Whenever the
officer who is charged with enforcement determines that a public nuisance is
being maintained or exists on property, the officer must give written
notification to the property owner and occupant or other responsible party of
that fact and order that the nuisance be terminated and abated. Notice must be
served in person or by certified mail. Failure of the party to receive the
certified mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. Notice to the
owner will be satisfied by notice to the person listed as the taxpayer on the
county's tax records. If the property is not occupied, the owner is unknown, or
no other responsible party can be reasonably identified, notice may be served
by posting it on the property for a period of at least 72 hours. The notice
must state:
         (a)   The property location of the public nuisance;
         (b)   The nature of the public nuisance, with reference to the
appropriate code provision;
         (c)   The steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and a reasonable
amount of time, within which the nuisance is to be abated;
         (e)   That if the owner, occupant, or other responsible party does not
comply with the notice within the time specified, the city may provide for
abating the nuisance;
         (f)   That the owner, occupant, or other responsible party has the
right to appeal the designation as a public nuisance by submitting a request in
writing to the city clerk before the date by which abatement must be completed
or within seven calendar days after service of the notice, whichever comes
first; and if that the city may assess its costs against the property in
accordance with this section.
      (2)   If no timely appeal is submitted and the nuisance is not abated
within the deadline given, a hearing before the City Council will be held at
the next meeting. If a timely appeal is submitted, the matter must be scheduled
for a hearing before the City Council. A notice of the hearing must state the
date, time, and location of the city council hearing, must be served in the
same manner as the abatement notice, and must be given at least ten days before
the hearing. After holding the hearing, the City Council may issue an order
requiring abatement of the nuisance.
   (B)   Summary abatement. 
      (1)   The enforcing officer may provide for abating a public nuisance
without following the standard abatement procedure required in division (A)
above when:
         (a)   There is an immediate threat to the public health or safety;
         (b)   There is an immediate threat of serious property damage; or
         (c)   A public nuisance has been caused by private parties on public
property.
      (2)   If the enforcing officer abates the nuisance under this section,
the officer must reasonably attempt to notify the owner, occupant, or other
responsible party of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement
and any cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
   (C)   Major abatement. When the enforcement officer determines that the cost
of abating a nuisance will exceed $500 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the standard abatement procedure provided in division (A) is altered
in the following manner:
      (1)   The abatement notice must provide that if the party does not abate
the nuisance within the time specified, the matter will be referred to the City
Council for a hearing; and
      (2)   The abatement notice must specify the date, time, and location of
the City Council hearing.
   (D)   Vegetation abatement. For a vegetation public nuisance under §
92.25, the standard abatement procedure provided in division (A) is altered in
the following manner:
      (1)   The abatement notice may require removal within three days after
service of the notice, not including Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. This
notice will remain in effect for the remainder of the calendar year; and
      (2)   Two days advance notice posted on the property is required for
abating a recurrence of the same condition.
   (E)   Cost recovery. The owner of property on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on property
not owned by that person, is personally liable to the city for the cost of the
abatement, including administrative costs. Unpaid charges constitute a lien
against the premises where the abatement occurred on and after the date they
were incurred. As soon as the work has been completed and the cost determined,
an appropriate official will prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the
owner or other responsible party. The amount is immediately due and payable to
the City Treasurer.
   (F)   Assessment. If the cost, or any portion of it, has not been paid under
division (E) within 30 days after the date of the bill, the Council may certify
the unpaid cost against the property to which the cost is attributable. Before
certification against the property, reasonable notice of the impending
certification and an opportunity to be heard by the Council must be given to
the taxpayer of record. Failure of the taxpayer to receive the notice will not
invalidate the certification. The Council may certify unpaid cost to the County
Auditor for collection along with current taxes in the following year or in
annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the Council may determine in each
case.
(Am. Ord. passed 6 - -2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.26 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. If the city makes the
complaint, an employee, officer or Council Member of the city shall file the
complaint in all respects as set out above.
(Ord. passed 6 - -2019)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 92.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter is to be cited as the "Recreational Vehicles" Ordinance.
(Ord. 21-92, passed 11-11-21)
§ 92.36 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the use and possession of recreational vehicles
are an important factor in the lives of a substantial number of residents of
the city. The Council finds that improperly stored recreational vehicles can
affect public health and safety, property values and the reasonable use and
enjoyment of neighboring properties. While the ability of recreational vehicle
owners to provide security of and access to their vehicles is a reasonable
expectation, they have a responsibility to respect the rights of residents,
owners, and users of neighboring properties, and to avoid interference with the
purposes of the zoning district in which they are located. The City Council
establishes these regulations as a means to balance the interests of the owners
of recreational vehicles, adjacent residents, and the public.
(Ord. 21-92, passed 11-11-21)
§ 92.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS I RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A recreational vehicle with a length of less
than 20 feet and a height of less than six feet when measured from the parking
surface to highest point of the vehicle. Minor portions of such equipment not
exceeding four square feet in vertical cross section as viewed from the
adjacent lot line, but not more than ten feet in height, are not counted in the
height measurement.
   CLASS II RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A recreational vehicle with a length of 20
feet or more or a height of six feet or more.
(Ord. 21-92, passed 11-11-21)
§ 92.38 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location. Standards are applicable in all zoning districts, excluding
the municipal-owned campground, and apply to all Class I and II recreational
vehicles.
   (B)   Length of use. Recreational vehicles and equipment must not be used
for living, sleeping, or housekeeping while parked or stored for any point past
72 hours. Must be parked on driveway or private property and not a public
street.
(Ord. 21-92, passed 11-11-21)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   All debris, ashes, refuse and obstructions of every nature removed from
streets
   
93.02   Sale of gasoline products on streets restricted
Construction and Reconstruction of Sidewalks
   
93.15   Method of procedure
   
93.16   Permit required
   
93.17   Specification and regulations
   
93.18   Subgrade preparation
   
93.19   Forms
   
93.20   Concrete materials
   
93.21   Sidewalk construction
   
93.22   Sidewalk specifications
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
93.35   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.36   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
93.37   Permit requirement
   
93.38   Permit applications
   
93.39   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.40   Permit fees
   
93.41   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.42   Supplementary applications
   
93.43   Denial of permit
   
93.44   Installation requirements
   
93.45   Inspection
   
93.46   Work done without a permit
   
93.47   Supplementary notification
   
93.48   Revocation of permits
   
93.49   Mapping data; information required
   
93.50   Location of facilities
   
93.51   Damage to other facilities
   
93.52   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.53   Indemnification and liability
   
93.54   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
93.55   Appeal
   
93.56   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ALL DEBRIS, ASHES, REFUSE AND OBSTRUCTIONS OF EVERY NATURE REMOVED FROM
STREETS.
   (A)   The word PERSON, as used in this section, shall be construed as
including individuals, copartnerships, associations, corporations and employees
of the person.
   (B)   No person shall in any manner or under any circumstances deposit or
allow any deposit of debris, ashes, refuse, obstructions, unsightly or
unsanitary matter of any kind whatever to be made or remain in the streets and
alleys in the city.
   (C)   All conveyances used in removing debris, ashes, refuse, obstructions,
unsightly or unsanitary matter of any kind whatever from the streets and alleys
or from private property in the city or passing through the city over and along
the streets and alleys shall be provided with tight boxes or tight receptacles
and shall be so loaded and conveyed that none of the debris, ashes, refuse,
obstructions, unsightly or unsanitary matter of any kind whatever may fall from
the conveyance or in any way or manner be left or deposited on the streets or
alleys.
(Ord. 85, passed 5-21-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 SALE OF GASOLINE PRODUCTS ON STREETS RESTRICTED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter erect or replace any pumps,
place or replace any barrels, tanks or other receptacles for the sale of
gasoline, kerosene, oils, petroleum products or any other thing within the
limits of any street, sidewalk or boulevard in the city. No such person, firm
or corporation shall in servicing any motor vehicle obstruct in any manner the
free use of the sidewalks in the city. Nothing in this section, however, shall
be construed to prohibit the ordinary repair of existing pumps, barrels, tanks
or receptacles.
(Ord. 101, passed 7-21-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.15 METHOD OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct a sidewalk in accordance with this subchapter after approval
therefor is given by the City Council.
   (B)   Sidewalk improvements may be made with or without petition by the
methods set forth in the Local Improvement Code of Minnesota Statutes, M.S. §§
429.011 through 429.111, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sidewalk shall be constructed in or upon any street or other public
property in this city without first having obtained approval from the Council.
Request for approval shall sufficiently describe the contemplated sidewalk
improvement, the contemplated date of beginning of work, the length of time
required to complete the same and the name of the firm or person responsible
for the work. No permit shall be required for any such sidewalk improvement
which has been ordered by the Council. The approval shall bind the applicant to
the provisions of this subchapter. Approval from the city shall not relieve the
applicant or his or her contractor from damages to a person or persons or
property of another caused by such work.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.17 SPECIFICATION AND REGULATIONS.
   All sidewalks constructed in or upon any street or other public property
shall be constructed according to the specifications herein provided. Before
any such construction work is begun, the city at its own expense will furnish
stakes for the establishment of grade and for the sidewalk location. All
sidewalk construction shall be completed in accordance with such established
grades and lines. All sidewalk construction shall be under the supervision and
inspection of the City Council or their delegated representative.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.18 SUBGRADE PREPARATION.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed on a foundation that has been excavated,
shaped and compacted to a firm, uniform bearing surface conforming to the
established grade. Unsuitable subgrade soils consisting of soft and/or wet
material, including organic matter, shall be removed and replaced with well
compacted granular material or other suitable approved material providing the
required foundation. Top of the finished subgrade elevation shall be the bottom
elevation of the completed sidewalk.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.19 FORMS.
   Side forms four inches in height, capable of sustaining the required edge
line and grade, shall be installed wherever rigid edge support for the sidewalk
is otherwise lacking. Forms shall be of wood or metal and shall be securely
staked to the established line and grade. Forms must be free from warp and of
sufficient strength to resist springing out of shape. The forms shall be
thoroughly cleaned and coated on the contact face with form treating material
to facilitate form removal upon completion of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.20 CONCRETE MATERIALS.
   All materials used in sidewalk construction shall be as follows:
   (A)   Cement. Portland cement shall conform to ASTM Designation C150 for
Type I Portland Cement.
   (B)   Fine aggregate. Fine aggregate shall consist of washed natural sand or
crushed gravels and shall contain less than 2.5% by weight of spall materials
and other deleterious substances. The fine aggregate shall conform to the
following gradation.
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing
3/8-inch   100
No. 4      95-100
No. 8      80-100
No. 16     55-85
No. 50     5-30
No. 100    0-1
 
   (C)   Coarse aggregate. The coarse aggregate shall consist of washed natural
or crushed gravel or quarry rock. It shall contain less than 1.5% by weight of
spall materials and less than 2.5% by weight of other soft particles. The
coarse aggregate shall conform to the following gradation.
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing
1-1/4 inch 100
1-inch     95-100
3/4-inch   65-95
3/8-inch   25-55
No. 4      0-7
 
   (D)   Water. The water used in the production of concrete shall be clear,
free of salts, oil and organic matter. The amount of water shall not exceed six
gallons per sack (94 pounds) of cement, including the water retained by the
aggregate.
   (E)   Admixtures. Air entraining admixtures may be used and shall conform to
ASTM C-260. The total air content of air entraining concrete shall be within
the limits of 4% to 7% by volume.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.21 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   The method of sidewalk construction shall be as follows:
   (A)   Concrete mixture. The materials used in each concrete batch shall be
weighed or accurately measured so as to get a uniform concrete mixture. The
proportion of dry weights of cement, fine aggregate and coarse aggregate in the
concrete mix shall be approximately 1:2:3 (one 94-pound sack of cement, 188
pounds of sand and 282 pounds of coarse aggregate mixed with not more than six
gallons of water). The concrete shall have a minimum compressive strength in 28
days of 3,900 pounds per square inch.
   (B)   Placing and finishing. The foundation and forms shall be thoroughly
wetted immediately prior to the placing of concrete. The concrete shall be
placed, consolidated to fill all voids, struck off to the required grade and
floated smooth and even by means of a trowel. After the water sheen has
disappeared, the joints shall be edged and the surface lightly brushed to a
uniform texture. The edges along the side and at transverse joints shall be
carefully rounded and marked with the proper edging tools. The sidewalk forms
shall remain in place for at least 12 hours after placing the concrete therein.
   (C)   Curing. The concrete shall be cured by covering with wet burlap,
curing paper or plastic curing blankets for a period of not less than 72 hours
or by the application of an approved membrane curing compound. Pedestrian
traffic shall be prohibited during the curing period. Concrete for sidewalks
shall not be placed on frozen subgrade, nor shall any concrete be placed during
freezing weather or when freezing temperatures may be expected.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
§ 93.22 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Repair of sidewalks.
      (1)   The owner of any property within the city abutting a public
sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians. Repairs
shall be made in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to the procedure allowing a petition for improvements
by abutting owners, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to make
such inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks within the
city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians. If he or she finds that any
sidewalk abutting on private property is unsafe and in need of repairs, he or
she shall cause a notice to be served, by registered mail or by personal
service, upon the record owner of the property, or the occupant, if the owner
does not reside within the city or cannot be found therein, ordering such owner
to have the sidewalk repaired and made safe within 60 days and stating that if
the owner fails to do so, the Street Commissioner will do so on behalf of the
city, that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner in a single
installment and that if unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the
property concerned.
      (3)   If the sidewalk is not repaired within 60 days after receipt of the
notice, the Street Commissioner shall repair the sidewalk and make it safe for
pedestrians or order the work done by contract in accordance with law. The
Street Commissioner shall keep a record of the total cost of the repair
attributable to each lot or parcel of property and report such information to
the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which sidewalk repair has
been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of such repair. As soon
as the service has been completed and the cost determined, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and
thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Administrator-Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for sidewalk
repair against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under
this section. The Council may then spread the charges against the property as a
special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor for
collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Ord. 147, passed 10-10-73)
   (D)   General specifications. The general specifications for sidewalk
construction are listed as follows:
      (1)   Width. The sidewalk shall be a minimum of four feet wide, and where
circumstances warrant, the Council may require widths greater than this amount.
      (2)   Location. The City shall establish the line for the sidewalk
location which will normally place the sidewalk in the street with the outside
edge (edge furthermost from the street) one foot from the property line.
      (3)   Thickness. The concrete sidewalk shall be a minimum of four inches
thick where used by pedestrians only and not less than six inches where crossed
by vehicles.
      (4)   Surface. The sidewalk shall be constructed to provide a transverse
slope of ¼-inch per foot of sidewalk width downward towards the street unless
otherwise directed by the Council or their delegated representative.
      (5)   Joints. The walk shall be divided into uniform, square panels when
possible. The panels shall be outlined by contraction joints or expansion
joints. The joints shall be vertical and straight and be parallel with or at
right angles to the centerline of the sidewalk. All joints and edges of the
sidewalk shall be rounded with a ¼-inch radius edging tool.
         (a)   Contraction joints approximately 1 /8-inch wide, not less than
1/2-inch in depth, nor more than  one-third the depth of the concrete, shall be
made four feet apart.
         (b)   A ½-inch preformed expansion joint shall be placed full depth in
all sidewalks at least every 50 feet. Preformed expansion joint material shall
also be placed between the sidewalk and all abutting curbs, buildings and other
masonry and concrete work. The expansion material shall be placed so as to be
flush with the surface of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-10-74)
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 93.35 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 93.36 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Chapter 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100 subps. 1 through 23, as
it may be amended from time to time, are the definitions of the terms used in
the following provisions of this subchapter.
§ 93.37 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right- of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of- way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding division (B) of
this section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for
unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or
restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to time by motion
of the City Council.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.38 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e) Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by the
Director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time, as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by motion of the City Council, estimated
restoration costs and other management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by motion of the
City Council, if applicable.
§ 93.39 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 93.40 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established by motion of the City Council.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by the motion of the City Council, in an amount sufficient
to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by motion of the City Council, and shall be in an
amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by motion of the City
Council, that were paid for a permit that the Director has revoked for a breach
as stated in §
93.48 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.100, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.41 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Director shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent
of the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application
or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Director, shall correct all restoration
work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Director. The
work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice
from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because
of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by motion of the City Council. However, the right-of- way user
shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not include
the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 93.42 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 93.43 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 93.44 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time, and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.45 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to § 
93.48.
§ 93.46 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.  
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 93.47 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the
Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 93.48 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.45.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 93.49 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as they may be
amended from time to time.
§ 93.50 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Director
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Director
shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential
users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of
the public interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
§ 93.51 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall
be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way
which it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant
caused during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 93.52 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.53 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rule part 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.54 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of- way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Director.
§ 93.55 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely written
request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 93.56 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's or registrant's rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Dogs and cats
   
94.03   Non-domestic animals
   
94.04   Farm animals
   
94.05   Impounding
   
94.06   Kennels
   
94.07   Nuisances
   
94.08   Seizure of animals
   
94.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
94.10   Diseased animals
   
94.11   Dangerous animals
   
94.12   Dangerous animal requirements
   
94.13   Basic care
   
94.14   Breeding moratorium
   
94.15   Enforcing officer
   
94.16   Pound
   
94.17   Interference with officers
   
94.18   Domesticated miniature Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs or teacup pigs
   
94.19   Urban chickens
   94.20   Potentially dangerous dogs
 
   
94.99    Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer in accordance with the regular license
requirement if the animal is unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any
maintenance costs incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The release
fee shall be as established by motion of the City Council.
§ 94.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer upon
payment of the license fee as established by motion of the City Council. The
owner shall state, at the time application is made for the license and upon
forms provided, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex
of each dog owned or kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog
that has not been vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a
certificate by a veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the
dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer the license fee established by
motion of the City Council.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by motion of the
City Council, the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the owner a
license certificate and metallic tag for each dog licensed. The tag shall have
stamped on it the year for which it is issued and the number corresponding with
the number on the certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each
dog with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that
the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed,
a duplicate shall be issued by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
A charge shall be made for each duplicate tag in an amount established by
motion of the City Council. Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to
another and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee or tag because of
death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city before the expiration of the
license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are non- residents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show, nor
shall this provision apply to “seeing eye” dogs properly trained to assist
blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer from
all dog licenses and metallic tags fees as established by motion of the City
Council, shall first be used to defray any costs incidental to the enforcement
of this chapter; including, but not restricted to, the costs of licenses,
metallic tags, and impounding and maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer, the Animal Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall
present for examination the required certificate of vaccination for the animal.
In cases where certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the
animal shall have seven days in which to present the certificate to the City
Administrator- Clerk-Treasurer or officer. Failure to do so shall be deemed a
violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining parcel of property except for
the following exceptions:
   (A)   Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs. An exception shall be made to this
section for pot-bellied pigs that meet the qualifications and comply with the
terms of §
94.18 of the City Code.
   (B)   Urban chickens. An exception shall be made to this section for urban
chickens that meet the qualifications and provisions of §
94.19 of the City Code.
   (C)   Traveling zoo animals. A further exception shall be made to this
section for those animals brought into the city as part of an operating zoo,
veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory or a licensed show or
exhibition.
(Am. Ord. 94, passed 5-12-20)
§ 94.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. In case the owner is unknown, the officer shall post notice
at the city office that if the dog or other animal is not claimed within the
time specified in division (C) of this section, it will be sold or otherwise
disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal, including dogs and
cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
94.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
94.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by motion of the City Council.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by motion of the City Council, and valid certificate of vaccination
for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions in this section, or the officer may sell the animal to the
University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any money
collected under this section shall be payable to the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel;” except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel.”
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
94.05.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
94.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
94.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
94.01;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
dog and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
§ 94.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or
officer may apprehend the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement
under §
94.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
94.05(C).
§ 94.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the orders issued will stand or the Animal
Control Officer may order the animal destroyed.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City
Administrator-Clerk- Treasurer's office shall be admissible for consideration
by the Animal Control Officer without further foundation. After considering all
evidence pertaining to the temperament of the animal, the City Council shall
make an order as it deems proper. The City Council may order that the Animal
Control Officer take the animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is
not currently in custody. If the animal is ordered into custody for
destruction, the owner shall immediately make the animal available to the
Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
94.11(C)(3);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed
six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of
age or older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting
any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration;
      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall be
registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days after
the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the
Animal Control Officer.
      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Seizure. The Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements
within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is
dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and
petition upon the city and filing it with the district court.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division (B), may
be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of impounding and boarding
fees and presenting proof to animal control that each of the requirements under
division (B), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within
14 days may be disposed of as provided under §
94.11(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
94.11 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
94.11(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of division (C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner
within 14 days after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be
reclaimed, the animal may be disposed of as provided under §
94.11(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 94.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
§ 94.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 94.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an Animal Control Officer to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the Officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 94.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 94.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 DOMESTICATED MINIATURE VIETNAMESE POT-BELLIED PIGS OR TEACUP PIGS.
   (A)   Domesticated Vietnamese miniature pot-bellied pigs or teacup pigs.
Domesticated Vietnamese miniature pot-bellied pigs or teacup pigs may be kept
as pets within all districts of the city by permit only as specified in this
section. Said animals shall be vaccinated at least one time every three years.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of
any live domesticated Vietnamese miniature pot-bellied or teacup pig without
first obtaining a permit for such animal from the city. The city shall grant a
permit for such animals to the applicant if the applicant has submitted a
complete application which establishes that he or she meets all of the
requirements for such a permit as set forth in this section below. No household
shall be allowed to keep, harbor or have custody of more than two of said
permitted animals at one time.
   (C)   Permit requirements. Any person desiring a permit for such animals
under the provisions of this section shall make a written application to the
City Administrator therefore upon a form prescribed by the city, including, but
not limited to the following:
      (1)   An address and parcel number of the real property for the permit.
      (2)   The breed of such animal(s) for which the permit is sought.
      (3)   A written consent from 100% of the owners or occupants of the real
property parcels located adjacent to the parcel for which the permit is being
requested, or in the alternative, proof that the applicant's property lines are
150 feet or more from any dwelling unit.
      (4)   Proof of appropriate vaccination for the permitted animal(s).
      (5)   A statement that the applicant will at all times keep such animal
(s) in accordance with any and all special permit conditions prescribed by the
city or its agents/officials and that failure to obey such conditions will
constitute a violation of the provisions of this section and be grounds for
cancellation of the permit.
      (6)   Payment of a fee for said permit issued per this section as set by
resolution of the City Council, from time to time.
      (7)   Such other and further information as may be needed by the City
Administrator.
   (D)   Term. The permit period under this section shall be for one year from
the date the permit is issued after approval thereof by the City Council,
subject to any special conditions as set forth in the approved permit.
   (E)   Revocation. The city may revoke any permit issued under this section
if the person(s) holding the permit refuse(s) or fail(s) to comply with the
terms of this section, with the conditions of the permit and/or any state,
federal or local law governing cruelty to animals or the keeping of animals. If
such a permit is revoked, said permitted animal(s) shall be removed from the
city within five days of the revocation and no part of the permit fee shall be
refunded.
(Ord. 94, passed 5-12-20)
§ 94.19 URBAN CHICKENS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided, due to the bird's inability to generate enough body heat.
      CHICKEN. A domesticated bird that serves as a source of eggs or meat.
      COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by
the section.
      EXERCISE YARD. A larger fenced area that provides space for exercise and
foraging for the birds when supervised.
      HEN. A female chicken.
      OFFICER. Any person designated by the city as an enforcement officer.
      POULTRY. Domesticated birds that serve as a source of eggs or meat and
that include among commercially important kinds, chickens, turkeys, ducks,
geese, peafowl, pigeons, pheasants and others.
      ROOSTER. A male chicken.
      RUN. A fully enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where the
chickens can roam unsupervised.
   (B)   Investigation and enforcement. Officers designated by the City Council
shall have authority in the investigation and enforcement of this section, and
no person shall interfere with, hinder or molest any such officer in the
exercise of such powers. The officer shall make investigations as is necessary
and may grant, deny or refuse to renew any application for permit, or terminate
an existing permit under this section. Limitations for each single dwelling
residential unit:
      (1)   No more than 15 chicken hens shall be housed or kept on any one
residential lot in any area of the city with a permit as outlined below.
      (2)   Roosters are prohibited.
      (3)   Slaughtering of chickens in the city limits is prohibited except at
a licensed processing facility.
      (4)   Leg banding of all chickens is required. The bands must identify
the owner and the owner's address and telephone number.
      (5)   A separate coop is required to house the chickens. Coops must be
constructed and maintained to meet the following minimum standards:
         (a)   Located in the rear or side yard.
         (b)   Set back at least five feet from the rear or side property
lines.
         (c)   Interior floor space: Four square feet per bird.
         (d)   Interior height: Four to six feet to allow access for cleaning
and maintenance.
         (e)   Doors: One standard door to allow humans to access the coop and
one for birds (if above ground level, must also provide a stable ramp).
         (f)   Windows: One square foot window per ten square feet floor space.
Windows must be able to open for ventilation.
         (g)   Climate control: Adequate ventilation and/or insulation to
maintain the coop temperature between 32° and 85° Fahrenheit.
         (h)   Nest boxes: One box per every three hens.
         (i)   Roosts: One and one-half inch diameter or greater, located 18
inches from the wall and two to three inches above the floor.
         (j)   Rodent proof: Coop construction and materials must be adequate
to prevent access by rodents.
         (k)   Coops shall be constructed and maintained in a workmanlike
manner.
      (6)   A run or exercise yard is required.
         (a)   Runs must be constructed and maintained to meet the following
minimum standards:
            1.   Location: Rear or side yard.
            2.   Size: Ten square feet per bird, if access to a fenced exercise
yard is also available; 16 square feet per bird, if access to an exercise yard
is not available. If the coop is elevated two feet so the hens can access the
space beneath, that area may count as a portion of the minimum run footprint.
            3.   Height: Four to six feet in height to allow access for
cleaning and maintenance.
            4.   Gate: One gate to allow human access to the run.
            5.   Cover: Adequate to keep hens in and predators out.
            6.   Substrate: Composed of material that can be easily raked or
regularly replaced to reduce odor and flies.
         (b)   Exercise yards must be fenced and is required if the run does
not provide at least 16 square feet per bird. Exercise yards must provide a
minimum of 174 square feet per chicken.
      (7)   Chickens must not be housed in a residential house or an attached
or detached garage, except for brooding purposes only.
      (8)   All premises on which chicken hens are kept or maintained shall be
kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The
coop and its surrounding must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor.
Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary
condition or causes odors detectible on another property. Failure to comply
with these conditions may result in the officer removing chickens from the
premises or revoking a chicken permit.
      (9)   All grain and food stored for the use of the hens on a premises
with a chicken permit shall be kept in a rodent proof container.
      (10)   Chicken hens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
nuisance to the occupants of adjacent property.
      (11)   Dead chickens must be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board
of Animal Health rules which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of as
soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include offsite burial, offsite incineration or
rendering, or offsite composting.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of any live
chicken without first obtaining a permit in writing from the city. The city
shall grant a permit for chicken hens after the applicant has sought the
written consent of 100% of the owners or occupants of privately or publicly
owned real estate that are located adjacent (i.e., sharing property lines) on
the outer boundaries of the premises for which the permit is being requested,
or in the alternative, proof that the applicant's property lines are 150 feet
or more from any house.
      (2)   Where an adjacent property consists of a multiple dwelling or
multi-tenant property, the applicant need obtain only the written consent of
the owner or manager, or other person in charge of the building. Such written
consent shall be required on the initial application and as often thereafter as
the officer deems necessary.
   (D)   Application. Any person desiring a permit required under the
provisions of this section shall make written application to the City
Administrator upon a form prescribed by and containing such information as
required by the City Administrator and officer. Among other things, the
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the real property upon which it is desired to keep
the chickens.
      (2)   The breed and number of chickens to be maintained on the premises.
      (3)   A site plan of the property showing the location and size of the
proposed chicken coop and run, setbacks from the chicken coop to property lines
and surrounding buildings (including houses and buildings on adjacent lots),
and the location, style, and height of fencing proposed to contain the chickens
in a run or exercise area. Portable coops and cages are allowed, but portable
locations must be included with the site plan.
      (4)   Statements that the applicant will at all times keep the chickens
in accordance with all of the conditions prescribed by the officer, or
modification thereof, and that failure to obey such conditions will constitute
a violation of the provisions of this section and grounds for cancellation of
the permit.
      (5)   Such other and further information as may be required by the
officer.
   (E)   Permit Conditions.
      (1)   If granted, the permit shall be issued by the City Administrator
and officer and shall state the conditions, if any, imposed upon the permitted
for the keeping of chickens under this permit.
      (2)   The permit shall specify the restrictions, limitations, conditions
and prohibitions which the officer deems reasonably necessary to protect any
person or neighboring use from unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise or
odors, or annoyance, or to protect the public health and safety. Such permit
may be modified from time to time or revoked by the officer for failure to
conform to such restrictions, limitations, prohibitions. Such modification or
revocation shall be effective after ten days following the mailing of written
notice thereof by certified mail to the person or persons keeping or
maintaining such chickens.
      (3)   The granting of a permit under this section does not entitle the
permit holder to any other rights as may be granted to farmers or commercial
entities relating to equipment used in the course of conducting animal
husbandry business.
   (F)   Fees/issuance. For each residential site the fee for a permit is as
may be imposed, set, established and fixed by the City Council, by resolution,
from time to time.
   (G)   Term. The permit period under this section shall expire one year from
the date the permit is issued. Permits must be renewed on an annual basis.
   (H)   Revocation. The city may revoke any permit issued under this section
if the person holding the permit refuses or fails to comply with this section,
with any regulations promulgated by the City Council pursuant to this section,
or with any state or local law governing cruelty to animals or the keeping of
animals. Any person whose permit is revoked shall, within ten days thereafter,
humanely dispose of all chickens being owned, kept or harbored by such person,
and no part of the permit fee shall be refunded.
   (I)   Violations/penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the divisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   If any person is found guilty by a court for violation of this
section, their permit to own, keep, harbor, or have custody of chickens shall
be deemed automatically revoked and no new permit may be issued for a period of
one year.
      (3)   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse
the city for all costs borne by the city to enforce the conditions of the
permit including but not limited to the pickup and impounding of chickens.
(Ord. 94, passed 5-12-20)
§ 94.20 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definition. A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG shall mean any dog that has:
      (1)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public or private property;
      (3)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (B)   Designation. The Chief of Police shall designate any dog as a
potentially dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that the animal meets any of
the criteria set forth in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Notice of designation. Upon determination that a dog is potentially
dangerous, the Chief of Police shall provide a written notice of said
designation for the owner(s) which states the description of the dog declared
potentially dangerous, the factual basis for the designation and that the owner
(s) has ten days to appeal the designation by requesting a hearing in writing
to City Hall. If a request for a hearing is not submitted within the ten-day
period for the request, the designation of “potentially dangerous dog” will
stand and the owner(s) will need to comply with the requirements for a
potentially dangerous dog as set forth in this section.
   (D)   Hearing. If the owner(s) requests a hearing to appeal the designation
of his or her dog as potentially dangerous within the ten-day time period, a
hearing shall be scheduled before the full City Council at the next regular
Council meeting on the calendar. The hearing shall be conducted in a manner
that complies with the hearings for potentially dangerous dogs as set forth in
M.S. § 347.541, Subd. 4. After the hearing, the City Council shall either
uphold the designation or overturn the designation of the dog as a potentially
dangerous dog.
   (E)   Exemptions. A dog may not be declared potentially dangerous if the
threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who:
      (1)   Was committing a crime, at the time, a willful trespass or other
tort upon the premises occupied by the owner(s) of the dog;
      (2)   Was provoking, tormenting, or abusing or assaulting the dog can be
shown to repeatedly have done so in the past; or
      (3)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime against the
owner or owner’s property.
   (F)   Review of designation. The Chief of Police, upon written request of
the owner(s) may review the designation status of a dog if a period of 180 days
has passed without any further incidents or violations of this section and may
use discretion in changing the designation with or without conditions. The
burden of proof for a change in designation shall be by clear and convincing
evidence and the owner of the dog has the burden of proof.
   (G)   Potentially dangerous dog requirements.
      (1)   Microchip. Any dog designated as potentially dangerous shall be
microchipped in accordance with Minnesota law for the microchipping of dogs.
      (2)   The dog must either have a proper enclosure or be restrained by
chain or leash no longer than ten feet in length at all times it is outdoors.
(Ord. 94.20, passed 2-11-25)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
94.02,
94.07,
94.13 and
94.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 95: DRUG LABS AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
Editor’s note:
This chapter, originally enacted by Ord. 1, 2005 Series, passed 3-8-05, was
repealed by Ord. 5, 2005 Series, passed 7-12-05, following enactment of a
county ordinance which addresses the same subject matter and supersedes the
former Chapter 95.
CHAPTER 96: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Notice
   
96.04   Payment
   
96.05   Hearing
   
96.06   Hearing officer
   
96.07   Failure to pay
   
96.08   Disposition of penalties
   
96.09   Offenses and penalties
   
96.10   Subsequent offense
96.01 PURPOSE.
   Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to this chapter are
intended to provide the public and the City of Winnebago with an informal, cost
effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain city ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to
be voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with administrative
offenses. At any time prior to payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for thereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the
procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance
with law. Likewise, the City of Winnebago in its discretion may choose not to
initiate an administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first
instance. In the event a party participates in the administrative offense
procedures but does not pay the monetary penalty which may be imposed, the City
of Winnebago will seek to collect the costs of the administrative offense
procedures as part of a subsequent criminal sentence in the event the party is
charged and is adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE. A violation of a provision of the city ordinance(s)
and is subject to the administrative penalties set forth in the schedule of
offenses and penalties referred to in
96.09, titled “Offenses and Penalties,” hereafter.
   INDEPENDENT COUNCIL. A City Council-appointed board, assigned the authority
to serve as Hearing Officer regarding administrative offenses. The council
shall consist of three members selected from surrounding communities who are
not residents of the City of Winnebago. Board members shall serve for a term of
one year and be paid a stipend of $35 per meeting.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.03 NOTICE.
   Any officer of the City of Winnebago Police Department, Code Enforcement
Officer, or any other person employed by the city, authorized in writing by the
City Council, and having authority to enforce this chapter, shall upon
determining that there has been a violation, notify the violator, or in the
case of a vehicular violation, attach to the vehicle, a notice of violation.
Said notice shall set forth the nature, date and time of the violation, the
name of the official issuing the notice, and the amount of the scheduled
penalty.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.04 PAYMENT.
   Once such notice is given, the alleged violator may, within ten days of the
time of issuance of notice, request a hearing in writing as is provided for
hereafter. The penalty may be paid in person or by mail, and payment shall be
deemed to be an admission of the violation.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.05 HEARING.
   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this chapter
may, within ten days of the time of issuance of the notice, request a hearing
to determine if a violation has occurred. The hearing officer shall have
authority to dismiss the violation or reduce or waive the penalty. If the
violation is sustained by the hearing officer, the violator shall pay the
penalty imposed within ten days.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.06 HEARING OFFICER.
   An independent council shall be the hearing officer. The independent council
is authorized to hear and determine any controversy relating to administrative
offense provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.07 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In the event a party charged with an administrative offense fails to pay the
penalty, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge may be brought against the
alleged violator in accordance with applicable statutes. If the penalty is paid
or if an individual is found not to have committed the administrative offense
by the hearing officer, no such charge may be brought by the City of Winnebago
for the same violation.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
 96.08 DISPOSITION OF PENALTIES.
All penalties collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the City of
Winnebago, deposited in the city's Police Fine Fund as a designated revenue to
be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
96.09 OFFENSES AND PENALTIES.
   Offenses, which may be charged as administrative offense and the penalties
for such offenses, will be established by resolution of the City Council from
time to time. Copies of such resolution(s) shall be maintained in the Office of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
 96.10 SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE.
   In the event a party is charged with a subsequent administrative offense,
within 12 months for the same or substantially similar offense, the subsequent
administrative penalty shall be increased by 25% (except speeding).
(Ord. 1, 2007 Series, passed 5-8-07)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   GAMBLING
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
116.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Coin operated music playing devices
   
110.02   Games of skill
   
110.03   License fees
§ 110.01 COIN OPERATED MUSIC PLAYING DEVICES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to operate in a public place in the city any coin operated music
playing device or devices, same commonly called “juke boxes,” unless licensed
by the Council of the city and according to provisions of this section.
   (B)   Licensing of juke boxes. Any person, firm or corporation wishing to
obtain a license under this section shall fill out and file with the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer an application for license on a form approved by
the Council, whereupon it shall be the duty of the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer to present the application to the Council at its next meeting,
regular or special; and the Council may direct the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer to issue to the applicant the applied for license in the name of the
City of Winnebago, upon the payment to the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
of the hereinafter provided for license fee.
   (C)   Term of license. The license fee for each coin operated music playing
device or similar device shall be the sum set forth in §
110.03 for one year or fraction thereof. The license may be transferred to
another location in this city upon filing a notice with the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer of the transfer and upon payment of a transfer fee determined
by Council from time to time.
   (D)   Revocation of licenses. Any license issued under the provisions of
this section may be revoked by the City Council for a violation of any
provision thereof.
(Ord. 139, passed 4-12-67; Am. Ord. 166, passed 1-13-82)
§ 110.02 GAMES OF SKILL.
   (A)   Definition. The term A GAME OF SKILL, as used herein, shall include
any device played by manipulating special equipment by hand or mechanically and
propelling balls, figures or numbers across a board or field into respective
positions, the object of which is to secure a special number or numbers of high
total score or to place the figures or numbers in special positions, which game
may be played by the public generally at a price paid either directly or
indirectly for such privilege, whether a prize is offered for the game or not,
whether known as a pinball game or by any other name.
   (B)   License required. No person, firm or corporation shall operate or keep
for operation any game of skill without having applied for and received a
license therefor as received a license therefor from the City Council as herein
required. Application for the license shall be made to the City Administrator-
Clerk-Treasurer upon a form to be supplied by the city and shall give the name
and address of the owner and applicant, the type of business conducted, the
name, number and description of the game or of equipment to be licensed and the
prize, if any. Every such license application shall be accompanied by the
annual license fees set forth in §
110.03. Every license shall be for a term of one year or a fraction thereof
expiring December 31 in each year.
   (C)   License to be displayed. Every license granted hereunder shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on or near the game so licensed and shall
identify the same by number or description.
   (D)   Prohibited practices and restrictions. No license hereunder shall be
issued for any game of skill within 400 feet of any school building. No person
shall use any device licensed under this section as a gambling device, and no
licensee shall permit any person or persons to use any game licensed hereunder
for gambling purposes, and the operation of any lottery or gambling device is
declared to be contrary to this section. No minor under the age of 18 years or
any minor enrolled in a public school shall be permitted to play any such
device.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-11-43; Am. Ord. 108, passed 2-10-65; Am. Ord. 166, passed
1-13-82)
 § 110.03 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees shall be as established from time to time by Council
resolution.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
111.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
111.04   License ineligibility
   
111.05   License suspension and revocation
   
111.06   License transferability
   
111.07   Prohibited activities
   
111.08   Exclusion by placard
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street- to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
§ 111.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
transient merchant within the city limits without first having obtained the
appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Chapter 329, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. All applications shall be
signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification;
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (C)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in an ordinance establishing fees and
charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, within two regular
business days, must determine if the application is complete. An application is
determined to be complete only if all required information is provided. If the
City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must inform the applicant of
the required necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must order any investigation,
including background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with
the application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Administrator- Clerk-Treasurer must issue the license
unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
111.04, in which case the Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer must deny the license.
If the City Administrator-Clerk- Treasurer denies the license, the applicant
must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request.
The decision of the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed
by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 111.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
111.04;
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
within 10 regular business days following the service of the notice, the city
may proceed with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed
notices, service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is
placed in the mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated time
frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the
request. Within 3 regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall
notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48-point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: GAMBLING
Section
   
112.01   Charitable gambling
§ 112.01 CHARITABLE GAMBLING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate and control the
conduct of gambling within the city.
   (B)   Provisions of state law adopted. The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349,
as amended from time to time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing
and restrictions of lawful gambling are adopted and made a part of this section
as if set out in full.
   (C)   Specific expenditures. A licensed organization shall make specific
expenditures of 10% from its net profits derived from lawful gambling. The 10%
expenditure shall be levied on gross receipts generated within the city less
prizes actually paid out by the organization and amounts expended for allowable
expenses attributable to such gross receipts. The specific expenditure shall be
paid quarterly towards the lawful purpose established from time to time by
resolution of the Council. At the time that such licensed organization submits
to the city its report, the organization shall also submit the following
information upon the form as may be required by the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer:
      (1)   Total amount of receipts generated within the city from lawful
gambling activities during the reporting period;
      (2)   The total amount of prizes actually paid out attributable to such
gross receipts by the organization during the reporting period;
      (3)   The total amount of money expended for allowable expenses
attributable to such gross receipts;
      (4)   The amount of net profits derived from lawful gambling during the
reporting period attributable to such gross profits;
      (5)   The identification of the lawful purpose to which such 10%
expenditure was made;
      (6)   The signature of the person filing the report;
      (7)   The period covered by the report;
      (8)   A receipt from the person or entity representing the lawful purpose
to which such 10% expenditure was made.
   (D)   Responsible parties. The gambling manager or managers of a licensed
gambling organization shall be exclusively responsible for the timely filing of
all returns, reports or other documents required by this section. Violation of
this section shall be punished as a misdemeanor. Furthermore, the City Council
may pursue such civil remedies as it deems appropriate, including efforts to
revoke such organization’s license.
(Ord. 173, passed 6-6-88)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Adoption of state law by reference
   
113.002   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
113.003   Definitions
   
113.004   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
113.005   Consumption in public places
   
113.006   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
113.007   Term and expiration of licenses
   
113.008   License fees; pro rata
   
113.009   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
113.010   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
113.011   Suspension and revocation
3.2% Malt Liquors
   
113.025   Definitions
   
113.026   License required
   
113.027   Applications for license
   
113.028   Fees
   
113.029   Granting of licenses
   
113.030   Conditions of licenses
   
113.031   Closing hours
   
113.032   Revocation
   
113.033   Prohibited sale
   
113.034   Sale, use and possession of intoxicating liquors and 3.2% malt
liquors
   
113.035   On-sale liquor licenses issued to veterans’ organizations
Sale and Consumption of Wine
   
113.050   Provisions of state law adopted
   
113.051   Wine licenses
   
113.052   Application for license
   
113.053   License fee
   
113.054   Granting of licenses
   
113.055   Persons ineligible for license
   
113.056   Places ineligible for license
   
113.057   Conditions of license
   
113.058   Suspension and revocation
Private Clubs
   
113.070   Permit required
   
113.071   Fee
   
113.072   Provisions of state law adopted
   
113.073   Set-ups
   
113.074   Person under 21
   
113.075   Exemption
Intoxicating Liquor Licenses
   
113.085   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
113.086   Application for license
   
113.087   Description of premises
   
113.088   Applications for renewal
   
113.089   Transfer of license
   
113.090   Investigation
   
113.091   Hearing and issuance
   
113.092   Restrictions on issuance
   
113.093   Conditions of license
   
113.094   Hours and days of sale
   
113.095   Minors on premises
 
   
113.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this chapter is adopted.
§ 113.002 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 113.003 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment,” “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 113.004 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
113.999(B).
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.005 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.006 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to four, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Ord. 1, 2011 Series, passed 7-12-11)
§ 113.007 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 113.008 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time by resolution the fee for
any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not
exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the
enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be
increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase
to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 113.009 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 113.010 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.011 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
rules promulgated under that Chapter, as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
113.004, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.   
   (D)   The provisions of §
113.999 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or
in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
113.999
3.2% MALT LIQUORS
§ 113.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Any potable malt beverage with an alcoholic content of
more than .5% by volume and not more than 3.2% by weight.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. The bottle or sealed container in which the liquor is
placed at the place of manufacture.
   RESTAURANT. Any place where preparing and serving lunches and meals to the
public to be consumed on the premises constitutes the major business thereof.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33)
§ 113.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, vend, deal in or dispose of, by gift, sale or
otherwise, or keep or offer for sale any 3.2% malt liquor within the city
without first having received a license therefor as hereinafter provided.
Licenses shall be two kinds: “on-sale” and “off-sale.”
   (B)   “On-sale” licenses shall be granted only to drug stores, restaurants
and hotels where food is prepared and served for consumption on the premises
and shall permit the sale of such liquor for consumption on the premises only.
   (C)   “Off-sale” licenses shall be granted to permit the sale at retail and
wholesale of such liquor in the original packages for removal from and
consumption off the premises only.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33; Am. Ord. 94, passed 1-7-35) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.027 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for any license to sell 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on
forms to be supplied by the city setting forth the name of the person asking
for the license, his or her age, such references as to his or her character as
may be required, his or her citizenship, the location where the business is to
be carried on, whether the application is for “on-sales” or “off-sales,” the
business in connection with which the proposed license will operate, whether
the applicant is the owner and operator of the business, the time the applicant
has been in that business at that place and such other information as the
governing body may require from time to time. It shall be unlawful to make any
false statement in an application.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.028 FEES.
   (A)   All applications for licenses shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the City Administrator- Clerk-Treasurer for the required fee for the respective
license. All such fees shall be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon
rejection of any application for a license, the City Administrator-Clerk-
Treasurer shall refund the amount so paid.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each year;
provided any portion of any licensing year has elapsed when the application is
made, the fee may be reduced to pro rata of the regular amount thereof.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33; Am. Ord. 94, passed 1-7-35; Am. Ord. 166, passed 1-13-
82)
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see §
110.03
§ 113.029 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   The City Council shall cause an investigation to be made of all facts set
forth in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard
for or against the granting of any license. After the investigation, the City
Council shall grant or refuse any such application in its discretion. All
licensed premises shall have the license therefor posted in a conspicuous place
at all times.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33)
§ 113.030 CONDITIONS OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All licenses granted hereunder shall be granted subject to the
conditions set forth in this section and all other conditions of this chapter
and subject to all other ordinances of the city applicable thereto.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any person under 21 years of age.
   (C)   No license shall be granted to any person who has been convicted of a
felony or of violating the National Prohibition Act or any law of this state or
local ordinance relating to manufacture or transportation of intoxicating
liquors.
   (D)   No license of either kind shall give permission to sell 3.2% malt
liquor in any theater, dance hall, ball park or other place of public gathering
for the purpose of entertainment, amusement or playing of games, and no such
liquor shall be consumed there.
   (E)   No “on-sale” license shall be granted for sales in connection with any
business where such business has not been in operation at that place for at
least six months immediately preceding such application and unless the
applicant then holds or applies for an “off-sale” license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted for sale on any premises where a licensee
has been convicted of the violation of this chapter or where any license
hereunder has been revoked for cause for at least one year after the conviction
or revocation.
   (G)   No sale or gift of any 3.2% malt liquor shall be made to any person
under guardianship, nor to any person under 21 years of age.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume such 3.2% malt liquor
or any beverage of any alcoholic content over .5% by volume on the public
streets, alleys or any public grounds in the city. It shall not be unlawful for
any person to consume the 3.2% malt liquor on any public grounds in the city
with Council permission by resolution and the subsequent issuance of a
temporary license.
   (I)   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made by the holder of an “off-
sale” license for consumption off the premises, except in the original package.
   (J)   No such malt liquor shall be sold by any person under the age of 18
years.
   (K)   All premises where any license hereunder is granted shall be open to
inspection by any police or health officer or other properly designated officer
or employee of the city at any time during which the place so licensed is open
to the public for business.
   (L)   No license shall be granted to any person where the premises used in
connection with the license does not have a toilet installed therein which
shall at all times be kept in a clean and respectable condition.
   (M)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be issued to the
applicant only and shall be issued for the premises described in the
application. The license shall not be transferred to another place without the
approval of the City Council.
   (N)   No license shall be granted to any manufacturer of 3.2% malt liquor
nor to anyone interested in the control of any such place, and no equipment or
fixture in any licensed place shall be owned in whole or in part by any such
manufacturer.
   (O)   No license shall be granted within 200 feet of any public school nor
within 200 feet of any church.
   (P)   Licenses shall be granted only to persons who are citizens of the
United States and residents of the City of Winnebago and to persons of good
moral character.
   (Q)   No sale or gift of any 3.2% malt liquor shall be made to any person
under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33; Am. Ord. 94, passed 1-7-35; Am. Ord. 94, passed 5-30-
73; Am. Ord. 94, passed 1-14-76) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.031 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   All establishments holding on and off-sale licenses for the sale of
3.2% malt liquor shall be closed by 12:30 a.m. each day.
   (B)   No sale of such 3.2% malt liquor shall be made after 4:00 p.m. on
December 24 in each year.
   (C)   There shall be no consumption of malt liquor on the premises holding
such “on-sale” license between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any
day.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33; Am. Ord. 94, passed 1-7-35; Am. Ord. 94, passed 10-14-
58; Am. Ord. 94, passed 2-14-61; Am. Ord. 94, passed 2-12-64; Am. Ord. 94,
passed 6-8-66; Am. Ord. 94, passed 10-8-75; Am. Ord. 94, passed 9-19-84)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.032 REVOCATION.
   Any license granted hereunder may be revoked by the Council without notice
to the grantee or a hearing may first be held by the Council and the revocation
then made for cause. Any violation of any provision or condition of this
chapter or any falsification of any statement in the application shall be
ground for revocation. No portion of the license fee paid into the City
Treasury shall be returned upon revocation.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33)
§ 113.033 PROHIBITED SALE.
   Nothing hereunder shall permit the manufacture, sale or transportation, or
keeping or having in possession for sale or transportation of, taking or
receiving or soliciting any order for any liquor of a greater alcoholic content
than 3.2% by weight, except for medicinal, pharmaceutical or scientific
purposes, and any such act is made unlawful. Any violation of this provision
upon any premises licensed hereunder shall also constitute grounds for
revocation of the license, and the same shall be automatically revoked upon a
conviction of the violation of this provision.
(Ord. 94, passed 4-4-33) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.034 SALE, USE AND POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS AND 3.2% MALT
LIQUORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any:
   (A)   Licensee or his or her employee to sell or serve intoxicating liquor
or 3.2% malt liquor to any person under the age of 21 or to permit any person
under the age of 21 to consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on the
licensed premises unless accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian;
   (B)   Person, other than the parent or legal guardian, to procure
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor for any person under the age of 21;
   (C)   Person to induce a person under the age of 21 to purchase or procure
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor;
   (D)   Person under the age of 21 to misrepresent his or her age for the
purpose of obtaining intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor;
   (E)   Person under the age of 21 to have in his or her possession any
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor with intent to consume same at a place
other than the household of his or her parent or guardian;
   (F)   A person under the age of 21 to enter any premises licensed for the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages or any municipal liquor store for the
purpose of purchasing or having served or delivered to him or her any
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor;
   (G)   A person under the age of 21 to consume any alcoholic beverage on
premises licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages or any municipal
liquor store or to purchase, attempt to purchase or have another purchase for
him or her any alcoholic beverage; or
   (H)   Any person to misrepresent or misstate his or her age or the age of
any other person for the purpose of inducing any licensee or any employee of
any licensee or any employee of any municipal liquor store to sell, serve or
deliver any alcoholic beverage to a person under the age of 21.
(Ord. 122, passed 7-10-56) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.035 ON-SALE LIQUOR LICENSES ISSUED TO VETERANS’ ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
the City Council may grant to qualified veterans’ organizations an on-sale
retail liquor license upon their applications, having first made application in
accordance with law.
   (B)   Before any such license is granted, the veterans’ organization so
requesting the license shall furnish to the city a liquor liability bond or
insurance policy by a company licensed to do business in the state, with the
coverage specified in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   The license shall be granted after application to the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer, accompanied by the required fee for the license,
which shall be $100 per year. The fee shall be paid into the General Fund of
the city. Upon rejection of any application for a license, the City
Administrator- Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount so paid. All licenses
shall expire on the first day of January in each year, provided any portion of
the licensing year has lapsed when the application is made, the fee may be
reduced pro rata of the regular amount thereof.
   (D)   All establishments holding the on-sale license shall be closed by 12:
30 a.m. on each day. No sale of any liquor shall be made on Sunday, nor on
Memorial Day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. There shall be no
sale nor consumption of the liquor on the premises holding the license between
the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of any day, nor on any primary, general
or special election day as aforesaid.
(Ord. 135, passed 7-10-63)
SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF WINE
§ 113.050 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, conditions
of bonds of licensees, hours of sale and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor insofar as
they are applicable to wine licenses authorizing the sale of wine not exceeding
14% alcohol by volume for consumption on licensed premises only, in conjunction
with the sale of food, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set
out in full.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77)
§ 113.051 WINE LICENSES.
   No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to the extent authorized
under state license, and the municipal liquor dispensary shall directly or
indirectly deal in, sell or keep for sale in the city any wine not exceeding
14% alcohol by volume without an on-sale wine license. An on-sale license
authorizes the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume for consumption
of the licensee’s premises only, in conjunction with the sale of food. An on-
sale wine license may be issued only to a restaurant having facilities for
seating not fewer than 25 guests at one time. For purposes of this subchapter,
a restaurant means an establishment, under the control of a single proprietor
or manager, having appropriate facilities for serving meals, and where, in
consideration of payment therefor, meals are regularly served at tables to the
general public and which employs an adequate staff to provide the usual and
suitable service to its guests.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77)
§ 113.052 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for on-sale wine license shall state the name
of the applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her character
with such references as the Council may require, his or her citizenship, the
restaurant in connection with which the proposed license will operate and its
location, whether the applicant is owner and operator of the restaurant, how
long he or she has been in the restaurant business at that place and such other
information as the Council may require from time to time. In addition to
containing such information, the application shall be in the form prescribed by
the Department of Public Safety and shall be certified and filed with the City
Administrator-Clerk- Treasurer. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Approval of security. The applicant shall provide proof of financial
responsibility as required by M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time
to time. The security offered under this section shall be approved by the City
Council and the Department of Public Safety. Surety bonds and liability
insurance policies shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney. Operation
of a licensed business without having on file with the city at all time
effective security as required in this section is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.053 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Amount. The annual fee for a wine license is set forth in §
110.03.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a wine license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license is
rejected, the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Term; pro rata fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year, except that if the application is made during the license year, a license
may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with any
unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license shall
expire on the last day of December.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77; Am. Ord. 166, passed 1-13-82)
§ 113.054 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to
be heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation
and hearing, the Council shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the
application. No wine license shall become effective until it, together with the
security furnished by the applicant, has been approved by the Department of
Public Safety.
   (B)   Person and premises licenses; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of the license and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77)
§ 113.055 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No wine license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for such a
license by state law. No license shall be issued to an individual who is not a
resident of the city.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77)
§ 113.056 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No wine license shall be issued for any
restaurant ineligible for such a license under state law.
   (B)   Time in business. No license shall be issued to any restaurant until
it has been in operation continuously for at least six months.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims
of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   Distance from school or church. No license shall be granted for a
building within 200 feet of any school or within 200 feet of any church.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77)
§ 113.057 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following divisions and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any
other applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensee’s premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor therein is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and
the law equally with the employee.
   (C)   Display during prohibited hours. No licensee shall display wine to the
public during hours when the sale of wine is prohibited.
   (D)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealers special tax stamp or a gambling stamp.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.058 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any on-
sale wine license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with
any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating
liquor. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 15.0418 through
15.0426, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-10-77)
PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 113.070 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any private club or public place, directly,
indirectly or upon any pretense or by any device, to allow the consumption or
display of intoxicating liquor or the serving of any liquid for the purpose of
mixing with intoxicating liquor, without first securing a permit from the
Department of Public Safety and paying the annual fee as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-30-71) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.071 FEE.
   Every private club or public place desiring to allow the consumption or
display of intoxicating liquor shall on or before January 1 of each year pay to
the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer a fee as set forth in §
110.03 and shall be issued a written receipt therefor. If a portion of the year
has elapsed when payment is made, a pro rata fee shall be paid, but no such pro
rata fee shall be accepted from any private club or public place which has
violated §
113.070. In computing the fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be
counted as one month. The written receipt shall be posted in some conspicuous
place upon the premises along side the permit issued by the Department of
Public Safety and shall be kept posted at all times.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-30-71; Am. Ord. 166, passed 1-13-82)
§ 113.072 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be amended from time
to time, are incorporated and made a part of this subchapter as completely as
if set out here in full.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-30-71)
§ 113.073 SET-UPS.
   No person shall consume or display, or allow the consumption or display, of
liquor or furnish set- ups or allow the furnishing of set-ups at an
establishment having a permit between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-30-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.074 PERSON UNDER 21.
   (A)   No persons shall furnish liquor or set-ups to a person under 21 at an
establishment having a permit under this subchapter.
   (B)   No person under 21 shall remain or be allowed to remain at a public
place or a private club having a permit under this subchapter unless
accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-30-71) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.075 EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter does not apply to any premises licensed for the sale of
intoxicating liquor.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-30-71; Am. Ord. 144, passed 5-11-84)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 113.085 INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council is authorized to issue:
   (A)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
113.008 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by
M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
clubs or congressionally chartered veterans’ organizations, and exclusive
liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
113.008 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (C)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
113.003, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at
least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
113.008, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
   (E)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
§ 113.086 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this subchapter
shall be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name
of the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this subchapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to
time, with regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from
time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of
Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this subchapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.087 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 113.088 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 60 days before a license issued under this subchapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 113.089 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this subchapter may be transferred without the
approval of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is
deemed to be a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to
transfer a license shall be treated the same as an application for a new
license, and all of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a
license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.090 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license.
§ 113.091 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 113.092 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.093 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   If required by the Council, within 90 days after employment, every
person selling or serving liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale”
license shall receive training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to
customers. The training shall be provided by an organization approved by the
Council. Proof of training shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.094 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   No on-sale establishment shall sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt
liquor beer for consumption on a licensed premise: (1) between 1:00 a.m. and 8:
00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday; (2) after 1:00 a.m. on Sundays,
except as provided by M.S. § 340A.504, Subd. 3. All other hours of operation
and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Am. Ord. 6, 2005 Series, passed 12-13-05) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.095 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on-sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on-sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under
that Chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§
14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to time, is not required
before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a hearing on the
proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person who wishes to
speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or revocation of
the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil
penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under that Chapter
as they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-
year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 114: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Basis for denial of license
   
114.06   Prohibited sales
   
114.07   Vending machines
   
114.08   Self-service sales
   
114.09   Responsibility
   
114.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
114.11   Other illegal acts
   
114.12   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
114.98   Violations
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices and such sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies, which the city accepts and
adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before the have reached the
age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age of 18 years without
having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin smoking; and
because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco products and tobacco related
devices and to further the official public policy of the state in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form and single cans or other packaging of
snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this section shall not be
considered individually packaged.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS shall include but not be limited to grocery stores, convenience
stores, restaurants, on/off-sale liquor establishments, clubs/posts and bars.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco products or tobacco
related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco, snuff flowers, cavendish,
shorts, plug and twist tobaccos, dripping tobaccos, refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product, as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device, intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related devices without first having obtained a
license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to the Council for
action at its next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the City
Administrator- Clerk-Treasurer shall determine that an application is
incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the applicant with the
notice of the information necessary to make the application complete.
   (C)   Action. The Council may either approve or deny the license or it may
delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
Council shall approve the license, the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue the license to the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice
of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the
applicant’s right to appeal the Council’s decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid up to one
calendar year from the date of issue or until December 31 of that year,
whichever is less. All licenses expire December 31 of each year no matter when
issued during the same calendar year.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
114.98.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
   (G)   Movable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The city will mail
renewal applications to each license holder by October 1 of the current year.
Renewal applications are due November 1. The issuance of a license issued under
this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be as
established from time to time by Council resolution.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a
license under this chapter, however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a
person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible
for the license under this section:
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco related devices;
   (C)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of
application;
   (D)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information;
   (E)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding such a license.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee’s employee and the
customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
114.02;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process;
   (F)   By any other means to any other person or in any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by any means whereby the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or the tobacco related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter or
other area not freely accessible to customers or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices at the time this chapter
is adopted shall comply with this section within 60 days following the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city public safety
or other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 15 years but less than 18 years to enter the licensed premises to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco relate devices. Minors
used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by city designed
law enforcement officers or other designed city personnel. Minors used for
compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related devices when such items are obtained as a
part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt
to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research or training purposes or required for the enforcement
of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related
device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco
related device. This division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco
related device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco related device, and it shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of
a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco related device. This division shall not apply to
minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing is this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense
to the violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonable relied on
proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97)
§ 114.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The city shall appoint a three person board to serve
as the hearing officer.
   (D)   Decisions. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer’s reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which
shall be provided to the accused violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer
finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty,
such findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused
violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to use misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violations. Each violation and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-12-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Findings
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   Issuance of license
   
115.05   Inspection
   
115.06   Expiration of license
   
115.07   Regulation of sexually oriented businesses
   
115.08   Suspension/revocation
   
115.09   Transfer of license
   
115.10   Severability
   
115.11   Judicial review
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city has reviewed and analyzed numerous studies, reports,
articles, judicial decisions and the experience and legislative findings of
other cities around the country concerning the impacts or “secondary effects”
of sexually oriented businesses and the sale, distribution, and display of
sexually oriented materials (collectively, “sexually oriented business
activities”) on the areas in which such activities are located or take place.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business activities can cause or contribute
significantly to increases in criminal activity in the areas in which they are
located or take place, thereby taxing crime prevention, law enforcement and
public health services.
   (C)   Nude dancing and other similar conduct provided by sexually oriented
business activities encourages prostitution, increases the frequency of sexual
assaults, attracts or encourages other related criminal activity, increases the
public health and safety risks associated with sexually oriented business
activities, and otherwise causes or contributes significantly to the adverse
impacts and secondary effects of sexually oriented business activities on the
areas to which such activities are located or take place.
   (D)   Sexually oriented business activities can cause or contribute
significantly to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods, can impair the
character and quality of such neighborhoods and the housing located therein,
and can inhibit the proper maintenance and growth of such neighborhoods,
limiting or reducing the availability of quality, affordable housing for area
residents and reducing the value of property in such areas.
   (E)   Sexually oriented business activities can undermine the stability of
other established business and commercial uses in the areas in which sexually
oriented business activities are located or take place and can cause or
contribute significantly to the deterioration of such other business and
commercial uses, thereby causing or contributing to a decline in such uses, an
inhibition on business and commercial growth, and a resulting adverse impact on
local government revenues and property values.
   (F)   Sexually oriented business activities can have a dehumanizing and
distracting influence on young people and students attending schools, can
diminish or destroy the enjoyment and family atmosphere of persons using parks,
playgrounds, forest preserves and other public recreational areas, can
interfere with or even destroy the spiritual experience of persons attending
church, synagogue, or other places of worship, and can interfere with or even
destroy the opportunity for solemn and respectful contemplation at cemeteries
and similar facilities.
   (G)   The presence of sexually oriented business activities is perceived by
the public generally and by neighboring business owners and residents as an
indication that the area in which such activities occur or take place is in
decline and deteriorating, a perception that can quickly lead to such decline
and deterioration, prompting businesses and residents to flee the affected area
to avoid the consequences of such decline and deterioration.
   (H)   The exterior appearance, including signage, of sexually oriented
business activities can have an adverse impact on young people and students;
can contribute to the decline in property values associated with sexually
oriented business activities; and can otherwise cause or contribute
significantly to the adverse impacts and secondary effects of sexually oriented
business activities on the areas in which such activities are located or take
place.
   (I)   The conduct of sexually oriented business activities, including
specifically, but without limitation, adult cabarets that provide nude dancing
and other similar conduct and the operation and use of adult booths, often
encourages or allows sexual activities and prostitution, among other things,
that place employees and patrons of such businesses at risk to exposure and
contraction of sexually transmitted diseases, including specifically, but
without limitation, the HIV virus, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, and
venereal diseases.
   (J)   The city has determined that sexually oriented business activities
will, unless properly regulated, have these and other severe adverse impacts
and secondary effects on the city and its residents.
   (K)   For the reasons set forth above, among others, the members of the City
Council have found and determined that it is essential to the health, safety
and general welfare of the city and its residents to adopt comprehensive
licensing regulations relating to sexually oriented business activities, to the
distribution and display of sexually oriented materials, and to the types and
operation of sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the city.
   (L)   The members of the City Council have further found and determined that
the establishment of the regulations provided in this chapter on the operation,
maintenance, and structural aspects of sexually oriented business activities is
necessary to minimize to the greatest extent possible, or to eliminate
altogether, the public health and safety risks that customarily, but
unnecessarily, exist in connection with such activities.
   (M)   The members of the City Council have further found and determined that
the limitations on the hours of operation of sexually oriented business
activities set forth in this chapter are necessary to protect and secure
neighboring uses, to control adverse noise and traffic impacts associated with
sexually oriented business activities, to enhance enforcement and
implementation of the regulations set forth herein, and to otherwise address,
mitigate, and, if possible, eliminate the adverse impacts and secondary effects
of sexually oriented business activities.
   (N)   The members of the City Council have further found and determined that
the disclosure and background information requirements set forth in this
chapter relating to the owners, operators, and others in a position of control
over sexually oriented business activities are necessary in order for the city
to implement and enforce the terms and conditions of this chapter, to aid in
the prevention of crime related to sexually oriented business activities, to
minimize to the greatest extent possible, or eliminate altogether, the public
health risks associated with sexually oriented business activities, and to
otherwise carry out the purposes and objectives of the regulations established
herein.
   (O)   The regulations established pursuant to this chapter are in no way
based on the content of protected speech, if any, associated with sexually
oriented business activities, and the purpose and intent of the regulations
established pursuant to this chapter is not to restrict or prohibit protected
speech, if any, associated with sexually oriented business activities, but
rather is to address, mitigate, and, if possible, eliminate the adverse impacts
and secondary effects of sexually oriented business activities in the areas in
which such activities are located or take place and to ensure that these
activities are established, managed, and operated in a safe and legal manner at
all times.
   (P)   The city has for many years engaged in rigorous, firm, and effective
policies and regulations relating to uses and activities that could have
adverse impacts on the continued stability and vitality of the residential and
business areas of the city and the regulations imposed by this chapter are a
continuation of and consistent with those long-standing policies and
regulations.
   (Q)   The city has the power and authority to adopt and enforce the terms,
conditions, and regulations established in this chapter pursuant to (i) its
general police powers to protect the public health, safety, morals, and general
public welfare; and (ii) all other applicable provisions of law.
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas;
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a commercial establishment which
offers for sale or rental any of the items listed in subsection (1)(a) above
will not be considered to have as one of its principal business purposes the
offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas provided all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Total gross revenues from the sale or rental any of the items
listed in subsection (1)(a) does not exceed 10% of the commercial
establishments gross revenue;
         (b)   Total gross square footage of display space and stock area
devoted to the sale or rental any of the items listed in subsection (1)(a) does
not exceed 10% of the commercial establishments total square footage;
         (c)   Display of any of the items listed in subsection (1)(a) is in a
separate room or area restricted only to persons 18 years old or older and is
closely monitored by management and/or employees of the commercial
establishment to insure that no individual under the age of 18 enters the room
or area where the items listed in subsection (1)(a) are displayed or stored;
         (d)   No electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled
still or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or
other image-producing devices are maintained on the premises of the
establishment to show images of items listed in subsection (1)(a) to any
customers or potential customers of the commercial establishment;
         (e)   Only employees or management of the commercial establishment who
are 18 years old or older are permitted to enter the area where the items
listed in subsection (1)(a) are stored, processed or displayed for customers or
potential customers of the commercial establishment.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures; video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure to
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Minnesota or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or in
part by public taxation, a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and, no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus with less than a fully opaque covering or the
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, vulva or anus.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses: any unlawful
lewd, indecent, or immoral conduct, including specifically, but without
limitation, any of the lewd, indecent, or immoral criminal acts specified in
any of the following statutes:
      (1)   Sections 609.293 to 609.365 of the Minnesota Criminal Code (Sex
Offenses).
      (2)   Sections 617.23 to 617.296 of the Minnesota Criminal Code
(Obscenity Statute).
      (3)   Sections 152.01 to 152.21 of the Minnesota Criminal Code
(Controlled Substances law).
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region
or anus.
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy.
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated.
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence.
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1), (2), (3) or (4) of this definition.
      (6)   Bestiality.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. Of a sexually oriented business means the increase
in floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas
exist on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Of a sexually oriented business means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the city to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following division and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases, and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
         (d)   The name of the owner of the property where to be located; if a
corporation, then the names of the principal owners of corporation.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state (1) the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name and, (2) submit the required
registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each.
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension, or
revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
      (6)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone if any.
      (7)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address.
      (8)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, social security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (9)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (10)   A straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to
application depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing sexually oriented businesses within 1,000 feet of the property to be
licensed; the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school, a public park or recreation area within 500 feet of the
property to be licensed. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted. The drawing shall be reviewed by the Building
Inspector for accuracy. In the event of a dispute between the applicant and the
city as to the accuracy of the drawing, the Building Inspector may order the
applicant to provide a drawing with the information required under this
paragraph prepared by a registered land surveyor.
      (11)   Copy of lease and all financing documents, all business related
contracts for supply of materials and consulting management.
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually oriented business
license said application shall be referred to the appropriate city departments
for an investigation to be made on such information as is contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 60 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the city of taxes, fees, liens, or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him or her in relation to any business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter.
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the health department, fire department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to this chapter. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they
may be easily read at any time.
   (C)   The health department, fire department and the building official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the city.
   (D)   Every application for sexually oriented business license (whether for
new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a
$1,000 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (E)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted license (new or renewal) shall
pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of $1,000 within 30 days
of license’s issuance or renewal.
   (F)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City
Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 115.05 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department, or other
city departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented
business except the business office, dressing rooms and other areas not
normally accessible to the public for the purpose of insuring compliance with
the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business. An inspection of all
areas of the premises may be conducted with the permission of the operator,
agent or employee, or with an administrative search warrant.
§ 115.06 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided herein. Application for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
§ 115.07 REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All licensed sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter, all other applicable city ordinances, and all other
applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be maintained or operated in any
manner that causes, creates, or allows public viewing of any adult material or
any entertainment depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, from any sidewalk, public or private
right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on which the licensed premises
is located. No portion of the exterior of a sexually oriented business shall
utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights or spotlights, or any
other similar lighting systems, or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the
extent specifically allowed herein. This division shall apply to any
advertisement, display, promotional material, decoration, or sign; to any
performance or show; and to any window, door, or other opening.
   (C)   All signs for sexually oriented businesses shall be flat wall signs.
The maximum allowable sign area shall be 1 square foot of sign area per foot of
lot frontage on a street, but in no event exceeding 32 square feet. The maximum
number of signs shall be one per lot frontage. Signs otherwise permitted
pursuant to this chapter shall contain only (i) the name of the sexually
oriented business and/or (ii) the specific type of sexually oriented business
conducted on the licensed premises. Temporary signage shall not be permitted in
connection with any sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain
open at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and noon 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (E)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually
oriented business.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 SUSPENSION/REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if
it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
   (C)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (D)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
§ 115.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event that any provision of this chapter, or any part thereof, or any
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction on its face or as applied, such holding shall not affect the
validity of effectiveness of any of the remaining provisions of this chapter,
or any part thereof, or any application thereof to any person or circumstance
or of said provision as applied to any other person or circumstance. It is
hereby declared to be the legislative intent of the city that this chapter
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, invalid, or ineffective
provision not been included herein.
§ 115.11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The district court shall expediate any action brought to contest any
provision of this chapter, or any action of the city under this chapter.
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to the
penalties as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
116.01   Administration
   
116.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
116.03   Requirements for cannabis businesses
   
116.04   Use in public places
§ 116.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purposes. The Winnebago City Council makes the following
legislative findings: The purpose of this chapter is to implement the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 342, which authorizes the city to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of city residents by regulating cannabis businesses
within the legal boundaries of the city.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. 
      (1)   The Winnebago City Council has the authority to adopt this chapter
pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement
requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retail businesses.
         (c)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in
public places.
         (d)   M.S. § 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority to
adopt zoning ordinances.
      (2)   This chapter shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of the
City of Winnebago.
   (C)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Winnebago Police Chief is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
   (E)   Definitions. Unless otherwise noted in this division (E), words and
phrases contained on M.S. § 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of
these acts, shall have the same meanings in this chapter.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other Cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s)
of mezzo businesses with a retail operations endorsement, micro businesses with
a retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
      CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
      PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
      RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, Subd.
23.
      RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of
Winnebago to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
      SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
      STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 12-30-24)
§ 116.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   (1)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
retail business within the City of Winnebago without first registering with the
City of Winnebago.
      (2)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of $2,000 for each violation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue
a license to any cannabis retail business to operate in Indian country, as
defined in United States Code, Title 18, Section 1151, of a Minnesota Tribal
Government without the consent of the Tribal government.
   (B)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   The City of Winnebago shall not charge an application fee.
         (b)   A registration fee, as established in Winnebago's fee schedule
shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail business applied
for.
         (c)   An additional registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half the
amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less.
The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail registration fee
and the first annual renewal fee.
         (d)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the city shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         (e)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or
half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever
is less.
         (f)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Application submittal. The City of Winnebago shall issue a retail
registration to a state- licensed retail business that adheres to the
requirement of M.S. § 342.22.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee as required in division (B)(1) of this
section;
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license pre-approval.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the City
Administrator shall inform the applicant as such, process the application fees,
and forward the application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (d)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (3)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
         (c)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this section shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks.
         (a)   The City of Winnebago shall complete at minimum one compliance
check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the business
meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 4
(b) and M.S. § 342.24.
         (b)   The City of Winnebago shall conduct at a minimum one unannounced
age verification compliance check at least once per calendar year.
         (c)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at
least 17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt
to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government.
         (d)   Any failures under this division (B)(4) must be reported to the
Office of Cannabis Management.
      (5)   Location change. A jurisdiction may decide to treat location
changes as a new registration, or alternatively treat a location change as
allowable subject to compliance with the rest of the registration process.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be required to
submit a new application for registration under division (B)(2) of this section
if it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of
Winnebago; or
         (b)   If a state-licensed cannabis retail business seeks to move to a
new location still within the legal boundaries of Winnebago, it shall notify
the City Administrator of the proposed location change and submit necessary
information to meet all of the criteria in this division (B)(5).
   (C)   Renewal of registration.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall renew an annual registration of a
state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM renews the
cannabis retail business’ license.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply to renew
registration on a form established by the City of Winnebago.
         (b)   A cannabis retail registration issued under this section shall
not be transferred.
      (2)   Renewal fees.
         (a)   The City of Winnebago may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the city’s fee
schedule.
         (b)   The application for renewal of a retail registration shall
include, but is not limited to items required under division (B)(2) of this
section.
   (D)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted. The City Council may suspend a
cannabis retail business' registration if it violates the code of the City of
Winnebago or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public.
The City Administrator shall immediately notify the cannabis retail business in
writing the grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   Notification to OCM. The City Administrator shall immediately
notify the OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the
City Administrator and cannabis retail business retailer a response to the
complaint within seven calendar days and perform any necessary inspections
within 30 calendar days.
      (3)   Length of suspension.
         (a)   The suspension of a cannabis retail business registration may be
for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales to customers if their registration is
suspended.
         (b)   The City Council may reinstate a registration if it determines
that the violations have been resolved.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5(e), the City of
Winnebago may impose as civil penalty, as specified in the city’s fee schedule,
for registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
   (E)   Limiting of registrations. The City of Winnebago shall limit the
number of cannabis retail businesses to two.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 12-30-24)
§ 116.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   (1)   The City of Winnebago shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 1,000 feet of a school.
      (2)   The City of Winnebago shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 500 feet of a daycare.
      (3)   The City of Winnebago shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 500 feet of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
   (B)   Zoning and land use.
      (1)   Cultivation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cultivation are permitted as a type of use in the following districts:
         (a)   General Industrial District I-1; and
         (b)   Residential Agricultural District R-A.
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacturer are permitted as a type of use in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   General Industrial District I-1; and
         (b)   Residential Agricultural District R-A.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturers are permitted as a type of use in the following
zoning districts:
         (a)   General Industrial District I-1; and
         (b)   Residential Agricultural District R-A.
      (4)   Wholesale. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale
are permitted as a type of use in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   General Industrial District I-1; and
         (b)   Residential Agricultural District R-A.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis retail are permitted as a type of use in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   General Industrial District I-1;
         (b)   Service Business-Limited Industrial District B-1;
         (c)   General Business District B-2; and
         (d)   General Agricultural District R-A.
      (6)   Cannabis transportation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed
for transportation are permitted as a type of use in the following districts:
         (a)   General Industrial District I-1; and
         (b)   General Agricultural District R-A.
      (7)   Cannabis delivery. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
delivery are permitted as a type of use in the following zoning districts: all
zones.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   Advertising. Cannabis businesses are permitted to erect up to two
fixed signs on the exterior of the building or property of the business, unless
otherwise limited by Winnebago’s ordinances.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 12-30-24)
§ 116.04 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall use a cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodations unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 12-30-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Use or discharge of air guns and sling shots by minors prohibited
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include but shall not be limited to seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include but are not limited to movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping malls,
nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence;
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor or unless one of the
exceptions to this section apply.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 USE OR DISCHARGE OF AIR GUNS AND SLING SHOTS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 18 years to use or
discharge any air gun, which would include pneumatic or CO2  or any propellent,
either man-made or manufactured as to propel a projectile, either man-made,
manufactured or vegetable from the barrel of the gun. This would include air
rifles, BB guns, pellet guns, paint ball and splat ball guns, blow guns or any
other guns designed to shoot a projectile through the air within the corporate
limits of the city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 18 years to use or
discharge any sling shot, wrist rocket sling, bow and arrows, cross bow and
arrows or spear within the corporate limits of the city, except a bow and arrow
may be used at an archery range with adult supervision.
   (B)   Parent or guardian responsibility.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian of anyone under the
age of 18 years to knowingly permit the person to use or discharge any of the
above mentioned items within the corporate limits of the city, except a bow and
arrow may be used at an archery range with adult supervision.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian of anyone under the
age of 18 to knowingly permit such person to carry any of the above mentioned
items on or about his or her person within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 107.5, passed 1-13-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153
.   RESERVED
      
154
.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Solar energy systems and related zoning standards
Renaming of Streets and Renumbering of Houses and Buildings
   
150.15   Duty of owner
   
150.16   Assignment of numbers
   
150.17   Survey; map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference.  
      The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 through 16B.75, including all of
the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and published from
time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the
Building Codes and Standards Unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the
exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted herein. The
Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this section as if
fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement.  
      (1)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code.
      (2)   The code shall be enforced within the extraterritorial limits
permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1, when so established by this section.
      (3)   The code enforcement agency of the city is the Building Official.
      (4)   This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota-certified Building
Official designated by the city to administer the code, M.S. § 16B.65, Subd. 1.
   (C)   Permits and fees.  
      (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized by M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1.
      (2)    Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits
issued for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor,
M.S. § 16B.69.
   (E)   Building Code optional chapters. This Minnesota State Building Code,
established pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 through 16B.75, allows the city to adopt
by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the most current edition
of the Minnesota State Building Code.
(Am. Ord. 4, Second Series, passed 7-8-2003; Am. Ord. 9, 2007 Series, passed 8-
14-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND RELATED ZONING STANDARDS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices whose primary purpose is to provide
for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating
or cooling, electricity generation or water heating.
         (a)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ACCESSORY. A solar energy system which is
directly connected to or designed to serve the energy needs of the primary use.
         (b)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-INTEGRATED. A solar energy system
that is directly incorporated into the building by replacing typical building
materials.
         (c)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND MOUNTED. A solar energy system that
is installed onto the ground directly or by means of brackets or poles.
         (d)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted
to a house or other building.
      SOLAR FARM, COMMUNITY. A solar array composed of multiple solar panels on
ground mounted rack or poles which is not directly connected to or designed to
serve the energy needs of the primary use but rather for the primary purpose of
wholesale sales of generated electricity or a financial proxy for retail power.
Solar farms include but are not limited to community solar gardens. A community
solar system may be either an accessory or a principal use.
      SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs of the building.
   (B)   Community solar farm. Municipally owned community solar farms shall be
exempt from restrictions herein notated; however, all other community solar
farms shall be subject to the requirements set for conditional use permits as
established in §
152.131 and the following additional performance standards:
      (1)   Foundations. A professional licensed engineer in the State of
Minnesota shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels is
within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions.
      (2)   Vegetation requirements and management. The following provisions
shall be met related to the clearing of existing vegetation and establishment
of vegetated ground cover. Additional requirements may apply as required by the
City Council:
         (a)   Large-scale removal of mature trees on the site is discouraged.
Restrictions on tree clearing, or mitigation for cleared trees may be required
by the City Council; and
         (b)   The project site design shall include the installation and
establishment of vegetative ground cover.
            1.   The ground cover should provide pollinator habitat or meet the
beneficial habitat standards consistent with M.S. § 216B.1642, as may be
amended from time to time, as set by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil
Resources.
            2.   Accessory uses of ground cover, such as beneficial crop growth
or feeding fields for sheep and goats, may be considered at the time of
application and permitted with conditions by the City Council.
            3.   The applicant shall submit a financial guarantee in the form
of a letter of credit, cash deposit or bond in favor of the city equal to 125%
of the costs to meet the beneficial habitat standard. The financial guarantee
shall remain in effect until vegetation is sufficiently established.
      (3)   Other standards and codes. All community solar farms shall comply
with any applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards, including
the State of Minnesota State Building Code, as amended; the National Electric
Code, as amended; the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES),
as amended; and shall be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local wetland laws, rules and regulations, as amended.
      (4)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels to electric substations, among other
project elements, and providing interconnections with buildings shall be buried
underground. Exemptions may be granted by the City Council in instances where
shallow bedrock, water courses, or other elements of the natural landscape
interfere with the ability to bury lines.
      (5)   Setbacks. Community solar farms must meet the minimum principal
building setback for the zoning district and be located a minimum of 300 feet
from a residential dwelling unit not located on the property. Setbacks shall be
measured to the nearest solar array or other structure within the community
solar farm, excluding security fencing, screening or berm.
      (6)   Maximum height. Ground mounted systems shall not exceed 25 feet in
height at maximum ground tilt.
      (7)   Screening. Community solar farms shall be screened from residential
dwelling units as follows when there is less than 1,000 feet of separation
between the solar array and residential dwelling:
         (a)   Screening shall consist of earth mounds or berms; neutral-
colored fences; or landscaping used in combination or singularly so as to block
direct visual access and to mitigate potential glare concerns;
         (b)   The use of berming and landscaping shall be 80% opaque at the
time of maturity. Planting screens shall consist of healthy plant materials at
least six feet in height at the time of planting;
         (c)   Screening fences that are in disrepair shall be repaired.
Planting screens shall be maintained in a neat and healthy condition with
plantings that have died being replaced within the current or next growing
season; and
         (d)   Applicant shall provide mitigation of glare issues, failure to
mitigate will be a violation of the CUP.
      (8)   Solar panels must be removed and properly disposed of if they are
out of production for more than one year unless the City Council grants an
extension of time for their removal.
      (9)   Application requirements. The following information shall be
provided to the city as part of the CUP permit:
         (a)   A site plan of existing conditions showing the following:
            1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending 300 feet
from the exterior boundaries, including the names of the adjacent property
owners and current use of those properties;
            2.   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the roads
and any associated easements;
            3.   Location and size of any existing or abandoned wells, and
sewage treatment systems;
            4.   Existing buildings and any impervious surface;
            5.   Topography at two-foot intervals and source of contour
interval; a contour map of surrounding properties may also be required;
            6.   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage, i.e.
grassland, pasture, plowed field, wooded areas, and the like);
            7.   Waterways, watercourses, lakes and public water wetlands;
            8.   Level 2 wetland delineation required. Other levels may be
appropriate if approved by the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer;
            9.   The 100-year flood elevation and regulatory flood protection
elevation, if applicable;
            10.   Floodway, flood fringe and/or general flood plain district
boundary, if applicable;
            11.   Surface water drainage patterns; and
            12.   Mapped soils according to the Faribault County Soil Survey;
         (b)   A site plan of proposed conditions showing the following:
            1.   Location and spacing of solar panels;
            2.   Location of access roads;
            3.   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar farm to the building, substation or other electric load;
            4.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building
or substation that is the connection point for the solar farm; and
            5.   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the
proposed solar energy conversion system and its relationship to structures on
adjacent lots (if any);
         (c)   Manufacturer's specifications and recommended installation
methods for all major equipment, including solar panels, mounting systems and
foundations for poles or racks;
         (d)   The number of panels to be installed;
         (e)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a
building or substation;
         (f)   Visual impact analysis. An analysis of the potential visual
impacts from the project including solar panels, roads and fencing along with
measures to avoid, minimize or mitigate the visual effects shall be required. A
plan may be required showing vegetative screening or buffering of the system
from those items to mitigate for visual impacts;
         (g)   A copy of the interconnection agreement with the local electric
utility or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection agreement is
not necessary;
         (h)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that
facilities are properly removed after their useful life;
            1.   Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event they
are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan shall include provisions for
removal of all structures and foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation
and a plan ensuring financial resources will be available to fully decommission
the site. Disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet all applicable
rules and regulations to proper disposal.
            2.   To ensure proper decommissioning, the applicant shall provide
a financial surety by posting a bond, letter of credit or the establishment of
an escrow account at a rate of $25,000 per MW or fraction thereof for community
solar farms and at a rate of $500 per acre for private solar gardens; and
         (i)   Any financial surety arrangement shall be approved by the City
Attorney's Office as to form and issuing bank.
            1.   The issuing bank must be an FDIC insured bank.
            2.   The issuing bank must be available in its entirety to fulfill
the obligations of the developer under the agreement.
            3.   Any letter of credit to the city shall contain language
requiring its automatic renewal prior to December 31 of each calendar year,
unless cancellation of the letter of credit is specifically approved in writing
by the city.
      (10)   Interconnect agreement. The owner of a solar energy system that
will physically connect to a house or other building's electrical system and/or
the electric utility grid must enter into a signed interconnection agreement
with the current electric utility provider prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
      (11)   Easements. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
secure/provide any desired solar easement by the current electric utility
provider to protect solar access for the system (per M.S. § 500.30).
      (12)   Installation. Solar energy systems shall be installed only by
licensed contractors.
   (C)   Solar energy systems, accessory.
      (1)   Type. In all districts, only building or roof mounted systems shall
be permitted; ground mounted systems aside from community solar farms are
prohibited as an accessory solar energy system.
         (a)   In residential districts only building or roof mounted systems
shall be permitted
         (b)   In non-residential districts ground mounted, building, and roof
mounted systems shall be permitted.
      (2)   Accessory structure limit. Ground mounted systems shall count as an
accessory structure for the purpose of meeting limits on the number of
accessory structures allowed per lot and the coverage limits. Ground mounted
systems less than 120 square feet shall not be required to apply for a site
plan review but shall meet the setback requirements of an accessory structure.
      (3)   Height.
         (a)   Roof mounted solar energy systems shall not project beyond the
peak of the roof and shall not be more than four feet above the roof surface to
which they are attached.
         (b)   Active solar energy systems are subject to the following height
requirements:
            1.   Building or roof mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
the maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For the purposes of height
measurement, solar energy systems other than building-integrated systems shall
be considered to be mechanical devices and are restricted consistent with other
building-mounted mechanical devices for the zoning district.
            2.   Ground or pole mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
25 feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (4)   Location within lot.
         (a)   Accessory solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setback of the structure to which it is attached for the zoning district.
         (b)   Roof mounted solar energy systems.
            1.   In addition to the building setback, the collector surface and
mounting devices for the roof mounted solar systems that are parallel to the
roof surface shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on
which the system is mounted or built. The collector and racking for roof
mounted systems that have a greater pitch than the roof surface shall be set
back from all roof edges by at least two feet.
            2.   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed
to extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
         (c)   Ground mounted solar systems. Ground mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side yard or rear yard setback when oriented at
minimum design tilt.
      (5)   Coverage. Roof mounted solar energy systems must be of a size and
placed in such a location so as to allow the dwelling/building to be insured
for fire/casualty and liability coverage by any insurance company licensed to
do business in the State of Minnesota. Proof of coverage must be provided by
the owner showing that the roof mounted solar energy system is specifically
insured and will be required for any permit issued under this section.
      (6)   Feeder lines. All power, exterior electrical or other service lines
must be buried below the surface of the ground.
      (7)   Weight. Rooftop solar projects must not overload the designed
weight limit of the roof.
      (8)   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall use colors that blend
with the color of the roof or other structure. Reflection angles from collector
surfaces shall be oriented so as not to interfere with the use and enjoyment of
other properties. Where necessary, screening may be required to address glare.
      (9)   Compliance with Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the Minnesota State Electrical Code.
      (10)   Compliance with Plumbing Code. All solar thermal systems shall
comply with the Minnesota State Plumbing Code.
      (11)   Compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local wetland
laws, rules and regulations.
      (12)   Application requirements. The following information shall be
provided to the Zoning Administrator as part of the site review process:
         (a)   A site plan of existing conditions showing the following:
            1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet
from the exterior boundaries, including the names of the adjacent property
owners and current use of those properties;
            2.   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the roads
and any associated easements;
            3.   Location and size of any existing or abandoned wells, and
sewage treatment systems;
            4.   Existing buildings and any impervious surface;
            5.   Topography at two-foot intervals and source of contour
interval; a contour map of surrounding properties may also be required;
            6.   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage, i.e.,
grassland, pasture, plowed field, wooded areas, and the like);
            7.   Waterways, watercourses, lakes and public water wetlands;
            8.   100-year flood elevation and regulatory flood protection
elevation, if applicable.
            9.   Floodway, flood fringe and/or general flood plain district
boundary, if applicable; and
            10.   Surface water drainage patterns;
         (b)   A site plan of proposed conditions showing the following:
            1.   Location and spacing of solar panels;
            2.   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar energy system to the building, substation, or other
electric load; and
            3.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building
or substation that is the connection point for the solar energy system;
         (c)   Manufacturer's specifications and recommended installation
methods for all major equipment, including solar panels, mounting systems and
foundations for poles or racks; and
         (d)   The number of panels to be installed.
      (13)   Interconnect agreement. The owner of a solar energy system that
will physically connect to a house or other building's electrical system and/or
the electric utility grid must enter into a signed interconnection agreement
with the current electric utility provider prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
      (14)   Easements. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
secure/provide any desired solar easement by the current electric utility
provider to protect solar access for the system (per M.S. § 500.30).
      (15)   Installation. Solar energy systems shall be installed only by
licensed contractors.
      (16)   Abandonment. If the solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for more than 12 consecutive months, the system shall constitute a
public nuisance. The owner shall obtain a demolition permit and remove the
abandoned system at their expense. Removal includes the entire structure,
including collector, mount, and transmission equipment.
(Ord. 2021-150.02, passed 11-11-21)
RENAMING OF STREETS AND RENUMBERING OF HOUSES AND BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, lessor or occupant of every house
or other building, except barns, garages or other buildings which are a part of
the same property with a numbered house or building, to place on each building
its proper street number, such numbers in metal or other form as approved by
the City Council, so that the same shall be clearly visible from the sidewalk.
The numbers shall be placed on such houses and buildings within 30 days from
the time the owner, agent, lessor or occupant is notified, either by mail,
publication or telephone, of the assignment of numbers to the houses, as
provided in this subchapter. The numbers shall not be less than three inches in
height and shall be procured from the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer. The
cost of the number or numbers shall be paid by the owner, agent, lessor or
occupant.
(Ord. 120, passed 11-23-54)
§ 150.16 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Numbers shall be assigned to houses and buildings from Cleveland
Street and Main Street as bases and in the following manner. All houses and
buildings situated within the first block north of Cleveland Street and all
intersecting streets shall be given numbers between 1 and 99 inclusive. Within
the second block, numbers between 100 and 199 inclusive shall be used and so on
in each succeeding block, and all numbers shall be indicated by adding the name
North to the name of the street. In like manner, the numbers 1 and 99 inclusive
shall be used in the street south of Cleveland Street on intersecting streets
and each succeeding 100 in each succeeding block and the word South shall be
added to the street name. On streets intersecting Main Street, numbers between
1 and 99 inclusive shall be used within the first block from Main Street on
either side and each succeeding 100 in each succeeding block, with the addition
of the word East or West to the street name, as the case may be. Odd numbers
shall be used on the west and north sides of the streets and even numbers on
the east and south sides respectively.
   (B)   Street names shall be changed to the following under this subchapter:
      (1)   Main Street shall be known as Main Street;
      (2)   Blue Earth Avenue to junction with Township Road between Section 34
and Section 3 shall be known as 100 West Street;
      (3)   Fifth Street, Huntington Street and Hotchkiss Street shall be known
us 200 West Street;
      (4)   Fourth Street shall be known as 250 West Street;
      (5)   Third Street and Robertson Street shall be known as 300 West
Street;
      (6)   Second Street and Reynolds Street shall be known as 400 West
Street;
      (7)   First Street shall be known as 500 West Street;
      (8)   Street running north and south between Auditor’s Lots No. 19 and
No. 32 in the south half of the northwest quarter of Section 34 shall be known
as 600 West Street;
      (9)   Seventh Street and Moulton Street shall be known as 100 East
Street;
      (10)   Eighth Street and Welch Street shall be known as 200 East Street;
      (11)   Ninth Street shall be known as 300 East Street;
      (12)   East Street shall be known as 400 East Street;
      (13)   Cleveland Street shall be known as 0 Cleveland Avenue;
      (14)   Stillman Avenue and Holley Street shall be known as 100 North
Avenue;
      (15)   College Avenue and Goodnow Street shall be known as 200 North
Avenue;
      (16)   Aldrich Avenue and Wallace Street shall be known as 300 North
Avenue;
      (17)   Hall Avenue shall be known as 400 North Avenue;
      (18)   Muriel Street in Austin’s Addition shall be known as 500 North
Avenue;
      (19)   Clarence Street in Austin’s Addition shall be known as 600 North
Avenue;
      (20)   Stanley Street between Sections 27 and 34 and between Sections 26
and 35 shall be known as 700 North Avenue;
      (21)   Mill Street shall be known as 100 South Avenue;
      (22)   Young Street shall be known as 200 South Avenue;
      (23)   Burt Street shall be known as 300 South Avenue;
      (24)   Bigelow Street shall be known as 400 Avenue;
      (25)   Oak Street shall be known as 500 South Avenue;
      (26)   Township Highway, between Sections 34 and 3, and the public
highway, between Sections 35 and 3, also known as State Road Number 109, shall
be known as 600 South Avenue.
   (C)   When blocks of different length occur on opposite sides of the street,
the numbers on both sides shall be assigned on the basis of the shorter block,
unless the City Council otherwise determines. One number shall be assigned to
each 15 feet of frontage, and in blocks longer than 750 feet, which are not
intersected by a street, the total length of frontage divided by 50 shall be
used to determine the feet of frontage assigned to each number. When any
building has more than one door serving occupants, separate numbers shall be
assigned to each door, provided the building is 15 feet or more in width. If
the building is not 15 feet or more in width and there is more than one door
serving separate occupants, the next consecutive number shall be marked
fractionally. Buildings fronting on two or more streets shall have numbers
assigned only to the main entrance unless other entrances serve different
occupants.
   (D)   Uniform numbering.
      (1)   Size, location, shape. All owners or occupants of residential,
commercial, and industrial structures within the city shall display their
assigned address numbers on the outside of their primary structures, near the
front door, for emergency purposes. The address number must be located on a
primary structure surface facing the public road clearly visible from the road,
address numbers shall be no smaller than four inches and colors should be in
strong contrast with background.
      (2)   Obstructions. In those cases where the principal building’s address
is obscured from view from the street of address by accessory buildings, trees,
shrubbery or other visual obstruction, the numbers shall be displayed on the
mailbox in numerals not less than two inches high, of a light reflective
material and of a contrasting color to the background. In those cases where the
principal building is obscured from the view from the street address and the
residence does not have a mailbox, the numbers shall be displayed from a
permanent mounting on the property, clearly visible from the street, displayed
prominently in numerals not less than four inches high of contrasting color to
the background. The post should be within 50 feet of the road and ten feet of
the driveway. The bottom of the address sign shall be placed at a height that
is no less than four feet above the level of the surface of the road.
      (3)   Multiple dwelling numbering. It shall be the duty of the owner or
manager of every multiple dwelling building containing five or more rental
units, and the owner or occupant of every individually owned dwelling unit in
any such multiple unit building to properly identify each dwelling unit by
attaching identification numbers on or adjacent to each entrance to the
individual units. The owner or manager of any multiple dwelling building with
common entrances containing five units or more, whether the units are rental or
individually owned, shall provide signs easily identifying the location of each
dwelling unit in the building. The signs shall be placed in an obvious location
inside each entrance to the building as approved by the Fire Chief.
      (4)   Maintenance. The occupant of the primary structure shall be
responsible for keeping its address numbers in good repair and clear of snow,
dirt, debris, or other obstructions.
      (5)   Time for compliance.  All owners of primary structures in the city
shall comply with this chapter within 45 days. All city licenses, applications,
and permits may be withheld from the owners or occupants of primary structures
if the address is not placed or maintained in conformance with the chapter.
      (6)   Violations. Failure to comply with any section of this chapter
shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 120, passed 11-23-54; Am. Ord. 2, 2004 Series, passed 5-11-04)
§ 150.17 SURVEY; MAP.
   The City Council shall cause the necessary survey to be made and there shall
be assigned to each house and building located on any street, avenue or highway
in the city its separate number, under the uniform system provided for in this
subchapter. A map showing all streets, avenues and public ways, as designated
and renamed by this subchapter, shall be filed with the City Administrator-
Clerk- Treasurer. All streets, avenues and highways laid out and open to public
travel, after the effective of this subchapter, shall be named in accordance
with the system established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 120, passed 11-23-54)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Short title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Jurisdiction
   
151.04   Application
   
151.05   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats
   
151.06   Definitions
   
151.07   Plats; submission and approval
   
151.08   Variances and exceptions
   
151.09   Registered land surveys and conveyance by metes and bounds
   
151.10   Compliance
Minimum Design Standards
   
151.25   Blocks
   
151.26   Streets and alleys
   
151.27   Lots
   
151.28   Easements
   
151.29   Public sites and open spaces
Basic Improvements Required
   
151.40   General
   
151.41   Street improvements
   
151.42   Sewers
   
151.43   Water supply improvements
   
151.44   Public utilities
 
   
151.98   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Winnebago” and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the city at large,
the following chapter is adopted in order that adherence to same will bring
results beneficial to both parties. Because each new subdivision becomes a
permanent unit in the basic unit structure of the expanding community, and to
which the community will be forced to adhere, and because piecemeal planning of
subdivisions will bring an undesirable disconnected patchwork of pattern and
poor circulation of traffic unless its design and arrangement is correlated to
a Comprehensive Plan of the city aiming at a unified scheme of community
interests, all subdivision of land hereafter submitted for approval to the
Planning Commission shall in all respects fully comply with the regulations
hereinafter set forth in this chapter. It is the purpose of this chapter to
make certain regulations and requirements for the platting of land within the
city which the City Council deems necessary for the health, safety and general
welfare of this community.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.03 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and subdivision of lands shall apply
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.04 APPLICATION.
   Any plat hereafter made for each subdivision or each part thereof lying
within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be prepared, presented for
approval and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein
shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots, tracts or other division of land for the purpose of sale or of
building development, whether immediate or future, including the resubdivision
or replatting of land or lots. Division of land in tracts larger than 2½ in
area and 150 feet in width shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.05 APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any vitality it shall have been
reviewed by the City Planning Commission and approved by the City Council as
having fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision
or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The groups of maps, charts and texts that make up the
comprehensive long-range plan of the city.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-
way, blocks, easements and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including but not limited to
sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or
storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements
of the city and in such form as required by the county for purposes of
recording.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   OWNER. A natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or quasi-
public corporation, private corporation or a combination of any of them.
   PARKS and PLAYGROUNDS. Public lands and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for and usable for recreation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access to be used by pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. On a street center line means the distance vertically
(up or down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet
of horizontal distance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Winnebago.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used with the view to protecting and preserving the
physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place or
however otherwise designated.
      (1)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those that carry traffic from minor streets to
the major system of arterial streets and highways, including the principal
entrance streets of residential neighborhoods.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      (3)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (4)   MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
      (5)   THOROUGHFARES or ARTERIAL STREETS. Those used primarily for heavy
traffic and serving as an arterial trafficway between the various districts of
the community as shown on the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street right-of-way.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than
2½ acres in area for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land.
The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context,
relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   TANGENT. A straight line projected from the ends of two curves, which is
perpendicular to a line in each curve drawn from the radii point to the end of
the curve.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street center line located
between lines of different percentage of grade.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.07 PLATS; SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Preliminary plat. The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a
preliminary plat, together with any necessary supplementary information.
      (1)   Filing. Three copies of a preliminary plat of any proposed
subdivision shall be filed with the City Planning Commission at least ten days
prior to a meeting of the Commission at which consideration is requested.
      (2)   Contents. The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision. Names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble the names of existing subdivisions;
         (b)   Location of boundary lines in relation to section, quarter
section or quarter-quarter section lines and any adjacent corporate boundaries,
comprising a legal description of the property;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the developer and the designer making the
plat;
         (d)   Scale of plat, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
         (e)   Date and north point;
         (f)   Existing conditions:
            1.   Location, width and name of each existing or platted street or
other public way, railroad, utility right-of-way, parks and other public open
spaces and permanent buildings within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
            2.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts or other
underground installations within the proposed subdivision or immediately
adjacent thereto with pipe size, grades and locations shown;
            3.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjacent parcels
of unsubdivided land;
            4.   Topography with contour intervals of not more than two feet
related to U.S.G.S. datum; also the location of water courses, ravines,
bridges, lakes, wooded areas, approximate acreage and other such features as
may be pertinent to subdivision;
         (g)   Proposed development:
            1.   The location and width of proposed streets, roadways, alleys,
pedestrian ways and easements;
            2.   The location and character of all proposed public utility
lines, including sewers (storm and sanitary), water, gas and power lines;
            3.   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and the
number or letter of each block;
            4.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches or
school sites or other conditional uses of land to be considered for dedication
to public use;
            5.   Building setback lines with dimensions;
            6.   Indication of any lots on which use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider;
            7.   The zoning districts, if any, on and adjacent to the tract.
         (h)   Two copies of profiles shall be furnished for each proposed
street, showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients
on the center line of the street. The location of proposed culverts and bridges
shall also be shown.
      (3)   Submission to Planning Commission. The preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission at least 10 days prior to a Commission
meeting at which consideration is requested. The Planning Commission shall take
action on the preliminary plat within 60 days of date of submission. The
recommendations of the Commission shall be forwarded to the Council within ten
days after action is taken, unless the subdivider agrees to an extension of the
statutory 120 days after submission of the preliminary plat within which the
Council must either approve or disapprove of the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Council approval. Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat
shall be made by the Council and be conveyed to the subdivider in writing
within 120 days after the preliminary plat was submitted, unless an extension
of time is agreed to by the subdivider. In case the plat is disapproved, the
subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and what
requirements will be necessary to meet the approval of the Council. The
approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an acceptance of the
subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed with the
preparation of the final plat. This approval of the preliminary plat shall be
effective for a period of one year, unless an extension is granted by the City
Council. If the final plat has not been submitted for approval within this
period, a preliminary plat must again be submitted to the Planning Commission
and the City Council for approval.
   (B)   Final plat.
      (1)   Filing. After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall prepare and submit to the Commission a final plat for recording purposes,
together with other supplementary information and certificates. The final plat
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at least ten days prior to a
regular meeting of the Commission. Three copies of the final plat shall be
furnished which shall bear the original signature of the owner or owners and be
duly acknowledged, along with additional copies as required for approval by
county authorities.
      (2)   Contents.
         (a)   The final plat prepared for recording purposes shall be prepared
in accordance with provisions of state statutes and county regulations.
         (b)   Name of subdivision (not to duplicate or too closely approximate
the name of any existing subdivision).
         (c)   Location by section, township, range, county and state and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based on an accurate
traverse giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall be 1 foot
in 5,000.
         (d)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the
final plat. Locations of such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments or the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments. Permanent markers
shall be placed at each corner of every block or portion of a block, points of
curvature and points of tangency on street lines and at each angle point on the
boundary of the subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a steel
rod or pipe, ½-inch or larger in diameter extending at least three feet below
the finished grade. In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of
markers in the locations prescribed above, off-set markers will be permitted.
The exact location of all markers shall be shown on the final plat, together
with accurate interior angles, bearings and distances. Permanent monuments
shall be placed at all quarter section points within the subdivision or on its
perimeter.
         (e)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from
all angle points and points of curve to lot lines.
         (f)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. If blocks are to be numbered or
lettered, these should be shown clearly in the center of the block.
         (g)   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
         (h)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
         (i)   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas
other than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public
use.
         (j)   Building setback lines on front and side streets with
dimensions.
         (k)   Name and address of developer and surveyor making the plat.
         (l)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date and north point.
         (m)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the strips marked “utility easements.”
         (n)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are so dedicated.
         (o)   Statement establishing building setback lines as follows:
building setback lines are established as shown on the accompanying plat, and
no building or portion thereof shall be built between this line and the street
line.
   (C)   Filing fee. Unless specifically waived by the City Council, the final
plat shall be accompanied by a required fee in the amount of $35, plus $1 for
each lot of the subdivision. The foregoing fees are to be used for the expense
of the city in connection with the review, inspection, approval or disapproval
of the plat which may thereafter be submitted.
   (D)   Certifications required on final plats.
      (1)   Notarized certification by owner and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas.
      (2)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct.
      (3)   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property have been paid in full.
      (4)   Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the
signatures of the Chairperson of the City Planning Commission and the Mayor and
City Council.
         (a)   The form of approval by the Planning Commission is as follows:
   Approved by the Planning Commission of the City of Winnebago this          
day of                , 20        .
   Signed:                                                      
            Chairperson
   Attest:                                                      
            Secretary
         (b)   The form of approval by the City Council is as follows:
      Approved by the City of Winnebago, Minnesota this              day of
                , 20      .
   Signed:                                                       
            Mayor
   Attest:                                                       
         City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer
   (E)   Supplementary documents and information.
      (1)   A complete set of street profiles showing grade lines as
constructed.
      (2)   Copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision or any
part thereof.
   (F)   Approval or disapproval. Approval or disapproval of the final plat by
the City Council shall be made within 60 days of submission. In case the plat
is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action
and what requirements shall be necessary to meet the approval of the
Commission.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.08 VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General. Whenever it is found that the land included in a subdivision
plat presented for approval is of such size and shape or is subject to, is
affected by such topographical location or conditions or is to be devoted to
such usage that full conformity to the provisions of this chapter is impossible
or impractical, the City Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council
by letter of transmittal that the Council authorize variations or conditional
exceptions in the final plat so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured.
   (B)   Conditions. In recommending such variations or conditional exceptions,
the Commission shall find that all of the following are met:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
      (2)   That the variation or exception is necessary for reasonable and
acceptable development of the property in question;
      (3)   That the granting of the variation or conditional exception will
not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property in the
vicinity in which the particular property is situated;
      (4)   The variation or exception does not adversely affect the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   Where an unusual hardship on the land exists as provided by M.S. §
462.358, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.09 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Registered land surveys. It is the intention of this chapter that all
registered land surveys in the city should be presented to the Planning
Commission in the form of a preliminary plat in accordance with the standards
set forth in this chapter for preliminary plats and that the Planning
Commission shall first approve the arrangement, sizes and relationship of
proposed tracts in such registered land surveys and that tracts to be used as
easements or roads should be so dedicated. Unless such Planning Commission
approval and City Council approval in accordance with the standards set forth
in this chapter have been obtained, building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys,
and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
   (B)   Conveyance by metes and bounds. No conveyance of two or more parcels
in which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be made or
recorded if the parcels described in the conveyance are less than 2½ acres in
area and 150 feet in width unless such parcel was a separate parcel of record
at the effective date of the chapter. Building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by this method, and
the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair or maintain any such tracts.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.10 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Conditions for recording. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled
to record in the County Register of Deeds office or have any validity until the
plat thereof has been prepared, approved and acknowledged in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   Building permits. No building permits will be issued by the city for
the construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or to
any lot in a subdivision, as defined herein, until all requirements of this
chapter have been fully complied with.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.25 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets determining block
lengths shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed 1,320 feet in
length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from
this maximum. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways and/or easements
through the block may be required near the center of the block. Blocks for
business or industrial use should normally not exceed 600 feet in length.
   (B)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.26 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall conform
as nearly as possible to the Winnebago Comprehensive Plan. Except for culs-de-
sac, streets normally shall connect with streets already dedicated in adjoining
or adjacent subdivisions, provide for future connections to adjoining
unsubdivided tracts or shall be a reasonable projection of streets in the
nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of thoroughfares and collector
streets shall be considered in their relation to the reasonable circulation of
traffic, to topographic conditions, to run-off of storm water, to public
convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the area to be served.
   (B)   Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage their use by non-
local traffic. Dead-end streets are prohibited, but culs-de-sac will be
permitted where topography or other conditions justify their use. Culs-de-sac
shall normally not be longer than 500 feet, including a turnaround which shall
be provided at the closed end with an outside curb radius of at least 50 feet
and a right-of-way radius of not less than 60 feet.
   (C)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider.
   (D)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, the lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision with
provision for adequate utility connections for such resubdivision.
   (E)   Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect
as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or other
conditions justify variations. The minimum angle of intersection of streets
shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with an off-set of less than 125
feet shall be avoided.
   (F)   Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way or the right-of-way of a limited access highway or
thoroughfare, provisions should be made for a marginal access street
approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of such rights-of-way or
for a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between
such street and right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations or for lot depths.
   (G)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that this requirement may be waived where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where
justified by special conditions, such as the continuation of an existing alley
in the same blocks, alleys will not be approved in residential districts.
Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than 20 feet wide. Dead-end alleys
shall be avoided wherever possible, but if unavoidable, such dead-end alleys
may be approved if adequate turn-around facilities are provided at the closed
end.
   (H)   Dedication of half-streets will not be approved, except where it is
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in conformity
with the other requirements of these regulations,
where it is found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the
other half when the adjoining property is subdivided or where it becomes
necessary to acquire the remaining half by condemnation so it may be improved
in the public interest.
   (I)   (1)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths for streets and thoroughfares shall be as shown in
the Comprehensive Plan for Winnebago, and where not shown therein, the minimum
right-of-way width for streets, thoroughfares, alleys or pedestrian ways
included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for
each classification as follows:
 
Thoroughfare           80 feet
Collector street       70 feet
Minor street           60 feet
Marginal access street 50 feet
Alley                  20 feet
Pedestrian way         10 feet
 
      (2)   Where existing or anticipated traffic on primary and secondary
thoroughfares warrants greater widths of rights-of-way, these shall be
required.
   (J)   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed 7% and in no case
shall be less than 1%. Different connecting street gradients shall be connected
with vertical parabolic curves. The minimum length of these curves in feet
shall be 15 times the algebraic difference in the percent of grades of the two
adjacent slopes for collector streets. For minor streets, the minimum length
shall be 7½ times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the two
adjacent slopes.
   (K)   Where street center lines within a block have a deflection angle of
more than ten degrees, there shall be a connecting curve with a radius adequate
to insure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet for minor and collector
streets and of such greater radii as the Planning Commission may determine for
special cases. There shall be a tangent between all reversed curves of a length
in relation to the radii of the curves so as to provide for a smooth flow of
traffic.
   (L)   All proposed streets shall be offered for dedication as public
streets. No private streets will be allowed.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.27 LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot width, depth and area shall conform to the
requirements as set forth in the zoning regulations, set forth in
Chapter 152 of this code.
   (B)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets.
   (C)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to street
lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where lots back on a
thoroughfare or other arterial streets or where topographic or other conditions
render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The double frontage lots shall have
an additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen
planting along the back lot line.
   (E)   Every lot must have at least the minimum required frontage on a public
dedicated street other than an alley.
   (F)   Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots intended for
residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by the zoning
regulations set forth in
Chapter 152 of this code. On those lots which are intended for business use,
the setback shall be at least that required by the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.28 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   An easement for utilities, at least 6 feet wide, shall be provided
along each side of the rear line of lots and/or the side line of lots where
necessary to form a continuous right-of-way at least 12 feet in width. If
necessary for the extension of main water or sewer lines or similar utilities,
easements of greater width may be required along lot lines or across lots.
   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be
changed without the approval of the City Council, by ordinance, upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the outside
of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the exterior
angle so that pole guys will fall along the side lot lines.
   (D)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel or stream, a storm water easement, drainage right-of-way or park
dedication, whichever the Planning Commission may deem the most adequate,
conforming substantially with the lines of such water courses shall be
provided, together with such further width or instruction, or both, as will be
adequate for the storm water drainage of the area. The size and location of
such easements shall be recommended by the Planning Commission for action by
the Council.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.29 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due consideration
shall be given by the subdivider to the dedication or reservation of suitable
sites for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public or semi-public
recreational areas or open spaces, as contained in the Winnebago Comprehensive
Plan. The areas so dedicated or reserved shall conform as nearly as possible to
the Winnebago Comprehensive Plan. All areas to be reserved for or dedicated to
public use shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may be
determined when and in what manner such areas will be dedicated to or acquired
by the appropriate agency.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
BASIC IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 151.40 GENERAL.
   Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, all improvements required
shall be paid for by the developer or owner.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.41 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following street improvements shall be made by the owner or subdivider
in accordance with standards and specifications as approved by the City
Council:
   (A)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including the sub-
grade of the areas to be paved;
   (B)   All streets shall be of an overall width in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Curb and gutter will be required before streets will be paved; and
   (D)   Storm sewers, culverts, storm water inlets and other drainage
facilities will be required where, in the opinion of the City Planning
Commission, they are necessary to insure adequate storm water drainage for the
subdivision.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.42 SEWERS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to serve all properties in the
subdivision where a connection to the city sewer system is available at or
reasonably near the boundary of the subdivision.
   (B)   Storm sewers shall be constructed to serve all properties in the
subdivision where a natural outlet is available or where a connection to the
city storm sewer system is available at or near the boundary of the
subdivision.
   (C)   If approved by the City Council, both storm and sanitary sewers may be
installed under contract by the city after petition for the same by the owner.
The cost shall be assessed against all lots in the subdivision over a period of
not to exceed ten years.
   (D)   All sewer construction must conform to standards and specifications by
the city for such work.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.43 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Water distribution mains, including fire hydrants, shall be installed
to serve all properties in the subdivision where a connection is available at
or reasonably near the boundary of the subdivision.
   (B)   If approved by the City Council, water mains may be installed under
contract by the city after petition for the same by the owner. The cost shall
be assessed against all lots in the subdivision over a period not to exceed ten
years.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.44 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed
in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (B)   Where telephone, electric and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or
dedicated public ways in such a manner so as not to conflict with other
underground services. All drainage and other underground utility installations
which traverse privately-owned property shall be protected by easements.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78)
§ 151.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plat. It shall be unlawful to sell, trade
or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of or in conformity
with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or portion of the city unless
the plan, plat or replat shall have first been recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the County.
   (B)   Endorsement of Planning Commission and Council. It shall be unlawful
to receive or record in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land
laid out in building lots and streets, alleys or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to public or private use or for the use of purchasers
or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto and located within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Planning Commission and the
City Council.
(Ord. 156, passed 1-18-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Scope
   
152.003   Interpretation
   
152.004   Rules
   
152.005   Definitions
Zoning Districts
   
152.015   Establishment of districts
   
152.016   Zoning Map
   
152.017   District boundaries
R-A Residential Agricultural District
   
152.030   Purpose
   
152.031   Permitted uses
   
152.032   Uses by special permit
   
152.033   Height, yard, lot and width regulations
   
152.034   Parking regulations
   
152.035   General construction requirements
   
152.036   Accessory building and structures regulations
R-1 One- and Two-Family Residence District
   
152.045   Purpose
   
152.046   Permitted uses
   
152.047   Uses by special permit
   
152.048   Height, yard, lot and width regulations
   
152.049   Parking regulations
   
152.050   Accessory building and structures regulations
   
152.051   Exterior storage
   
152.052   General construction requirements
B-1 Service Business–Limited Industrial District
   
152.085   Purpose
   
152.086   Permitted uses
   
152.087   Uses by special permit
   
152.088   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.089   Parking regulations
   
152.090   Performance standards
B-2 General Business District
   
152.100   Purpose
   
152.101   Permitted uses
   
152.102   Uses by special permit
   
152.103   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.104   General regulations
I-1 General Industrial District
   
152.115   Purpose
   
152.116   Permitted uses
   
152.117   Uses by special permit
   
152.118   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.119   Performance standards
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.130   Nonconforming uses
   
152.131   Special use permits
   
152.132   Building and use permits
   
152.133   Adjustments and appeals
   
152.134   Amendments
   
152.135   Enforcement
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of Winnebago” and is
referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.002 SCOPE.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of all land and
every building or portion of a building erected, structurally altered with
respect to height and area, added to or relocated and every use within a
building or use accessory thereto in the city shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. No lot shall be so reduced that the area of the lot
or dimensions of the open spaces shall be smaller than herein prescribed. Any
existing building or structure and any existing use of properties not in
conformity with the regulations herein prescribed shall be regarded as
nonconforming, but may be continued, extended or changed subject to the special
regulations herein provided with respect to nonconforming properties or uses.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of this
chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any statute, other ordinance
or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the
provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation impose greater
restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of such statute, other ordinance
or regulation shall be controlling.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.004 RULES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the
plural the singular; the word BUILDING shall include the word STRUCTURE; the
word LOT shall include the word PLOT; and the word SHALL is mandatory and not
discretionary.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE. The growing of soil crops in the customary manner on open
tracts of land, the raising of animals or poultry, excepting kennels, farms for
disposal of garbage or offal and commercial feedlots; includes incidental
retail selling by the producer of products raised on the premises, providing
customer parking space is furnished off the public right-of-way.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which
affords secondary means of access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more apartments grouped in one building.
   APARTMENTS. A room or suite of rooms designed for, intended for or used as a
residence for one family or individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or a motel where meals or
lodging and meals for compensation are provided for five or more persons
pursuant to previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or property of any kind; and when separated by party walls
without openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be deemed a
separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of the main building on the same lot. The building must be not less
than five feet from the main building or any projection thereof; otherwise it
shall be considered part of the main building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average of the lowest and
highest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the ceiling
of the topmost story.
   CAMPGROUND. A land use consisting of designated campsites with appropriate
facilities designed for temporary occupation by tents or recreational vehicles
as defined in Minnesota Statutes. Includes public ownership, single private
ownership, membership ownership, or individual site ownership with an owners’
association, or management services with site rentals.
   DWELLINGS. Any building or part thereof which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes for one or more human beings either
permanently or transiently.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals living together on the premises as a
single non-profit housekeeping unit (except for necessary servants) as
distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel,
club, fraternity or sorority house.
   FENCES. Fences in a residential district shall not exceed seven feet in
height and must be constructed of wood or decorative metal or vinyl material.
The fence must be constructed inside the property line of the property owner
for maintenance purposes. The fence posts or fence supports shall be placed on
the property owner’s side of the fence. No fence shall be constructed in the
front yard of the property or adjacent to the public sidewalk without a special
use permit.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior walls, including basements and attached
accessories.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for storage only of self-propelled
vehicles and tools and equipment maintained incidental to a conforming use of
the premises. No private garage used or intended for the storage of passenger
automobiles shall exceed 1,200 square feet of main floor area, nor shall any
access door or other openings exceed the height of ten feet.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises, except those defined as a private garage, used
for storage or care of self-propelled vehicles and/or where any such vehicles
are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within the main
dwelling or attached/detached accessory buildings, and carried on by members of
the family residing therein, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to
the use of the dwelling and does not change the character thereof (permitted
uses are set forth in §
152.031).
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof where lodging is offered to transient
guests for compensation and in which there are more than five sleeping rooms
with no cooking facilities in individual dwelling units.
   JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including but not limited to scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber products, glass
products, lumber products and products resulting from the wrecking of
automobiles or other machinery.
   LOT AREA. The land area within the lot lines.
   LOT CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The average distance between the front and rear lot line (the
greater frontage of a corner lot shall be deemed its depth and the lesser
frontage its width).
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, KEY. The first lot to the rear of a corner lot, the front line of which
is a continuation of the side line of the corner lot, exclusive of the width of
any alley and fronting on the street which intersects or intercepts the street
on which the corner lot fronts.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal straight line distance between the side lot lines
at the setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that,
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained in it, and which complies with the manufactured home building code as
provided by M.S. §§
327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on the effective date of this
chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the district in which it is
situated, except that such a use is not nonconforming if it would be authorized
under a special use permit where located.
   PERSONS. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or body politic, includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee or similar representative thereof.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. Any building or building module which is of closed
construction and which is made, constructed, or assembled in manufacturing
facilities, on or off the building site, for installation, or assembly and
installation, on the building site, but does not include relocatable
contractors’ offices or storage buildings that are 1,500 square feet or less in
floor area, that are designed for temporary use by a contractor at a
construction site, that are not to be used by the general public or as a sales
office, and that will be removed prior to or upon completion of the
construction project.
   PREMISES. A lot or plot with the required front, side and rear yards for a
dwelling or other use as allowed under this chapter.
   SETBACK. The shortest distance between the front lot line and the foundation
wall of a building or the allowable building line as defined by the front yard
regulations of this chapter.
   SIGN. A name, identification, display, illustration or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land in view of the general public and which directs attention to a product,
place, activity, purpose, institution or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
or a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such sign is in
use.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns,
or braces, placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building or
structure.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
design.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any sign which states the name or address or both of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A non-permanent sign, with no moving parts or flashing
lights, no larger than eight square feet total sign size per side (no taller
than four feet from grade); displayed outside an establishment during business
hours. It is not intended as permanent business signage. Examples include, but
are not limited to, sandwich boards.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, not including any
structural elements outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral
part of the display. (Only one side of a double-faced or V-type sign structure
shall be used in computing total surface area.)
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A non-permanent sign erected, affixed, or maintained for a
limited period of time. Examples include, but are not limited to, garage sale
signs, for sale signs, banners, and the like.
   STORY. That portion of the building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there is no floor above
it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY-HALF. A story with at least two opposite exterior sides meeting a
sloping roof not more than two feet above the floor of such story.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change or addition to the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   USES. The purpose for which land or premises or the building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a lot
or building located on the same lot as the accessory use.
   YARD. An open space other than a court on the same lot with a building,
which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front lot line and the front building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the width of the lot and lying between
the rear lot line and the nearest line of the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line
and lying between the side lot line and the nearest line of a building.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. passed 6-12-96; Am. Ord. 6, Second Series,
passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 5, 2011 Series, passed 11-8-11;
Am. Ord. 1, 2012 Series, passed 3-13-12; Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 6-
13-23)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.015 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into the following
districts:
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   R-A District;
      (2)   R-1 Residential Low Density District; and
      (3)   R-2 Residential High Density District.
   (B)   Business districts.
      (1)   B-1 Service Business - Limited Industrial District; and
      (2)   B-2 General Business District.
   (C)   Industrial districts. I-1 General Industrial District.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.016 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are delineated
on the Zoning Map, and the Map and all notations, references and data shown
thereon are adopted and made part of this chapter and will be on permanent file
and for public inspection in the City Hall. It shall be the responsibility of
the city to maintain the Map, and amendments thereto shall be recorded thereon
within 30 days after official publication of amendments.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.017 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated, either the
center lines of streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way, or such lines
extended or lines parallel or perpendicular thereto. Where figures are shown on
the Zoning Map between a street and a district boundary line, they indicate
that the district boundary line runs parallel to the street at a distance
therefrom equivalent to the number of feet stated, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
R-A RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 152.030 PURPOSE.
   The R-A District is intended to allow continuing farming operations, within
the corporate limits of the city, in certain areas, while providing for the
logical expansion of residential development.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.031 PERMITTED USES.
   Within the R-A District, unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no uses
are permitted except the following:
   (A)   One- or two-family dwellings with a permanent foundation;
   (B)   Parks and recreational areas owned or operated by governmental
agencies;
   (C)   (1)   Public schools, elementary or high, or private schools having a
curriculum equivalent to a public elementary school or public high school;
      (2)   Health care facility, including but not limited to, a hospital, a
medical clinic, a day surgery center, a residential alcohol and drug treatment
facility, an assisted living facility, a board and lodging facility, a nursing
home, a diagnostic imaging center, a fitness center, a rehabilitation center, a
residential center for special needs adults and children, a hospice center, a
health care administrative center, and a center for alternative medicine;
   (D)   Golf courses, except club houses, miniature courses and driving tees
operated for commercial purposes;
   (E)   Churches, provided that no building shall be located within 25 feet of
any lot line abutting a lot in any of the classes of residence districts;
   (F)   Agriculture, farming and truck gardening, except kennels, animal or
poultry farms operated for commercial purposes;
   (G)   Home occupations, as defined in §
152.005 and the following standards. All standards of the zoning district shall
apply. The specific standards shall apply to all home occupations:
      (1)   Said use shall occupy not more than one-quarter of the area of the
main floor of the principal dwelling and/or attached or detached accessory
building;
      (2)   The use shall not require substantial interior or exterior
alteration of the dwelling;
      (3)   Conduct of the home occupation does not generate more noise,
vibration, glare, fumes, odor, dust, electrical interference or hazards or
nuisances noticeable outside of the dwelling, than normally associated with
residential occupancy in the neighborhood;
      (4)   The use shall not generate sewage of a nature or rate greater than
that normally associated with residential occupancy, nor shall it generate
hazardous waste or solid waste at a rate greater than that normally associated
with residential occupancy;
      (5)   No outdoor display of goods or outside storage of equipment or
materials is permitted;
      (6)   Commodities may be sold as part of the home occupation; however, it
shall be only a minor and insubstantial part of the total home occupation;
      (7)   The home occupation shall not increase vehicular traffic flow and
parking by more than two additional vehicles at a time and any need for parking
generated by the conduct of a home occupation shall be located on the current
driveway and not in front of any part of the principal dwelling, except the
garage or an attached porch;
      (8)   No home occupation will be allowed that jeopardizes the health and
safety of residents in the city;
      (9)   There shall be no renting of dwelling or yard space in a
residential zoned area for nonresidential purposes;
      (10)   Rental of attached and detached accessory buildings for motorized
vehicles and/or recreational vehicles is permitted; and
      (11)   There shall be no signage advertising the occupation’s product or
business.
   (H)   Accessory buildings and uses:
      (1)   Private garages;
      (2)   In ground swimming pool when completely enclosed within a chain
link or similar fence six feet high;
      (3)   Boarding, or rental of rooms to not more than four people on
premises;
      (4)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
      (5)   Fallout shelters;
      (6)   Maintenance of dogs and cats or other household pets, subject to
licensing requirements, health regulations and other applicable ordinances of
the city;
      (7)   Parking of one commercial motor vehicle of not over three-ton
capacity used by the resident occupant, parking of farm implements required in
the operation of a farm and parking of passenger cars, but not including the
storage of vehicles which are inoperable or for sale or rent;
      (8)   Any accessory building in a R-A zoned area, the following maximum
size dimensions are allowed: height of building cannot exceed 30 feet, building
door height cannot exceed 16 feet, and the size of building cannot exceed 3,000
square feet, except as follows: floor areas may be increased if separation on
all sides of the proposed building are more than 20 feet in width from public
ways and yards on all sides of the building and adjoin the entire perimeter,
floor areas may be increased at a rate of 5% for each foot by which the minimum
exceeds 20 feet. Such increases shall not exceed 50% or 4,500 square feet.
   (I)   Signs:
      (1)   A nameplate sign identifying the owner or occupant of a building or
dwelling unit, provided such sign does not exceed two square feet in surface
area. Such signs may be illuminated;
      (2)   A sign pertaining to the lease or sale of the building or property,
provided such sign does not exceed four square feet in surface area. Such signs
shall not be illuminated;
      (3)   Temporary signs identifying an engineer, architect, contractor or
product engaged in or used in the construction of a building, provided such
signs do not exceed four square feet in surface area and are removed prior to
the occupancy of the building. Such signs shall not be illuminated;
      (4)   One identification sign not to exceed 24 square feet in surface
area for displaying the name and activities of a church, school, hospital,
sanitarium, club, library or similar use. Such signs may be illuminated;
      (5)   Directional, unilluminated signs not exceeding two square feet in
surface area displaying directional information for churches, schools,
hospitals, sanitariums, clubs, libraries or similar uses, provided that each
such use shall be limited to one such sign per thoroughfare approach;
      (6)   Public street identification signs, traffic signs and directional
signs in any parking area where such signs are necessary for the orderly
movement of traffic;
      (7)   Temporary signs advertising the sale of farm produce, such as
vegetables, fruits and the like produced on the premises not exceeding six
square feet in area;
      (8)   Other accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted
in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (J)   Incorporated and/or injected manure spreading, with the following
conditions to be met:
      (1)   A 500-foot setback to a residence or residential area must be
maintained, measured from the nearest wall of a residential structure;
      (2)   Manure must be incorporated and injected immediately upon
application and applied at agronomic rates; and
      (3)   No surface application of manure is allowed within city limits.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 2, 2005 Series,
passed 5-10-05; Am. Ord. 1, Series 2009, passed 4-14-09; Am. Ord. --, passed 7-
14-20)
§ 152.032 USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Buildings or land may be used for the following if granted a special use
permit:
   (A)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations, museums,
art galleries, post offices and other municipal service buildings, except those
customarily considered industrial in use, providing that no building shall be
located within 25 feet of any lot in a residential district;
   (B)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks and similar
essential public utility and service structures;
   (C)   Golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming pool or private swimming
pool serving more than one family, provided that no principal structure shall
be located within 25 feet of any lot in a residential district;
   (D)   Offices of professional persons;
   (E)   Cemetery or memorial garden;
   (F)   Boarding or rental of rooms to five to eight persons on a premises;
   (G)   Railroad rights-of-way, but not including railroad yards or shops;
   (H)   Nurseries and greenhouses for growing plants only, no retail sales;
   (I)   Fences:
      (1)   Fences in the residential districts shall not exceed six feet in
height and must be constructed either of wood, chain-link metal or decorative
metal.
      (2)   (a)   The fence must be constructed on the property owner’s
property.
         (b)   All fence posts or fence supports shall be placed on the
property owner’s side of the fence.
      (3)   No fence shall be constructed in the front yard of the property or
adjacent to a public sidewalk without a special use permit.
      (4)   All wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of a required yard, except
that on corner lots there shall be a triangular area formed by the right-of-way
lines of intersecting streets and a line joining points on the lines 30 feet
distant from the intersection, in which area there shall be no wall, fence or
hedge and trees shall be trimmed from the ground to a height of 16 feet above
curb level.
      (5)   All applications must include a sketch of the fence and where it
will go on the property with the location of the buildings on the property as
well.
   (J)   Carports.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 3, Second Series, passed 7-8-03; Am. Ord.
4, 2004 Series, passed 7-13-04; Am. Ord. 2, 2007 Series, passed 7-10-07; Am.
Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
§ 152.033 HEIGHT, YARD, LOT AND WIDTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. All dwellings must be at least 14 feet in height.
No structure shall exceed 2-1/2 stories or 40 feet in height, except that
church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain useable space, and chimneys
and agricultural buildings may be of any height which does not conflict with
airport requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations, measured from back of curb.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 30
feet, except that in a block where two or more residences have been erected
facing the same street, the setback for remaining lots in that block fronting
on the same street shall be determined by the average setback of existing
buildings.
      (2)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot,
except that for corner lots of record at the date of this chapter, the front
yard on the side street side may be reduced to a depth of not less than 15
feet.
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   Each lot shall have two side yards, each such yard having a width
of not less than eight feet; except as set forth in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   An accessory building or garage attached to the main building may
be built five feet from one side lot line if the side yard on the other side of
the lot is not less than ten feet in width.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. Each lot shall have a rear yard having a depth
of not less than 25% of the lot depth.
   (E)   General yard regulations.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies and eaves may extend into a required yard at a
distance not exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (2)   Fire escapes may extend into a required front or rear yard a
distance not exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (3)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into a required front
or rear yard a distance not exceeding six feet if the landing place or porch
has its floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open
railing no higher than three feet, six inches may be placed around such
structure.
      (4)   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of a required yard, except
that on corner lots there shall be a triangular area formed by the right-of-way
lines of intersecting streets and a line joining points on the lines 30 feet
distant from the intersection, in which area there shall be no wall, fence or
hedge and trees shall be trimmed from the ground to a height of 16 feet above
curb level.
      (5)   On double frontage lots the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
   (F)   Lot size regulations.
      (1)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling is erected shall
contain an area of not less than 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling is erected shall
not be less than 75 feet in width, nor less than 120 feet in depth.
      (3)   The lot area, width and depth regulations of this section shall not
apply to lots recorded prior to the adoption of this chapter. However, the lots
shall not be altered in any way which would further reduce their dimensions
below the minimum requirements of this section, and no lot in conformance with
the provisions of this section shall be reduced or resubdivided to produce a
lot not in full conformance with this section.
   (G)   Width regulations. All dwellings must have a minimum width of at least
8.5 feet.
   (H)   Design standards. After the effective date of this code, all newly
constructed one- or two-family dwellings and manufactured homes moved into the
district shall:
      (1)   Be constructed or located upon a permanent foundation, and
constructed according to the provisions of the Minnesota State Building Code;
      (2)   Have a minimum width of 8.5 feet, measured between non-intersecting
exterior walls along a straight line perpendicular to both walls;
      (3)   Except for earth-sheltered dwellings, have a roof pitch and a
shingled roof, unless alternatives are approved by the City Council;
      (4)   Have roof overhangs which extend a minimum of one foot from the
exterior wall of the structure; and
      (5)   Use the following exterior materials: wood, stone, stucco or brick.
Steel, vinyl or aluminum siding may be used in combination with these other
materials.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. passed 7-8-98; Am. Ord. 6, Second Series,
passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. passed --; Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 1-9-24)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.034 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each dwelling unit
on the premises.
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided on the premises, exclusive of
required yards, for uses as follows:
      (1)   Churches. One parking space for each six seats, based on the design
capacity of the main seating area.
      (2)   Elementary school or junior high school. Two parking spaces for
each classroom.
      (3)   Senior high school. One parking space for each classroom, plus one
parking space for each ten students, based on design capacity.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.035 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All dwellings must be placed on a foundation constructed of masonry,
concrete or treated wood, with footings supporting the foundation constructed
of solid masonry or concrete placed at a minimum depth of 42 inches below
finish grade.
   (B)   All dwellings exterior siding must be of a conventional exterior
dwelling-type material. Sheet metal siding is not permitted.
   (C)   All dwellings must have a pitched roof covered with shingle, tile or
approved sheet metal roofing and have eaves of not less than six inches.
   (D)   All dwellings must be built in conformance with Minnesota Statutes.
   (E)   All dwellings must have all exterior and bearing stud walls to be of
at least 2" x 4" construction.
   (F)   All manufactured homes must have available for inspection,
manufacturer’s instructions specifying how said home is to be situated on a
permanent foundation.
(Ord. passed 7-8-98)
§ 152.036 ACCESSORY BUILDING AND STRUCTURES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All unattached accessory buildings must be located in such a way that
building eaves will be located a minimum of one foot inside the property lot
line.
   (B)   No unattached accessory building shall be located nearer the front lot
line than the principal building on the lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings, structures and private garages (excluding
attached garages) are limited in size as follows:
      (1)   One thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet for lots from zero to
0.5 acres or 21,779 square feet or less in size; and
      (2)   Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet for lots greater than
0.5 acres or 21,780 square feet or greater in size.
   (D)   The maximum allowable height in feet is 21.5 feet (one story buildings
only). Two story buildings are allowed by conditional use permit only upon lots
of at least two acres in size only.
   (E)   The maximum allowable height in feet for garage doors is 14 feet.
   (F)   The maximum number of accessory buildings allowed (excluding attached
garage) is as follows:
      (1)   Two for lots ranging from zero to 0.5 acres or zero to 21,779
square feet; and
      (2)   Three for lots ranging from 0.5 acres or greater or greater than
21,780 square feet.
   (G)   Exterior finish standards. The exterior finish of accessory buildings
and structures, including detached garages, shall be of the same general design
and materials as the home or of color compatible metal panels. All
architectural features, soffits, fascia eave overhangs and the like shall match
the similar features on the home.
(Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed 12-9-03; Ord. passed 11-11-21) Penalty, see
§
10.99
R-1 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 152.045 PURPOSE.
   The R-1 District is intended for low density residential development in
those areas where such development fits the Land Use Plan and policies and
where municipal utilities are available.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.046 PERMITTED USES.
   Within an R-1 District, unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no uses
are permitted except the following: publically owned campgrounds, and all uses
permitted in §
152.031, except:
   (A)   Agriculture, farming and truck gardening;
   (B)   Parking of farm implements; and
   (C)   Temporary signs advertising the sale of farm produce, such as
vegetables, fruits and the like produced on the premises not exceeding six
square feet in area.
(Ord. 4, 2011 Series, passed 11-8-11)
§ 152.047 USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Buildings or land may be used for the following if granted a special use
permit:
   (A)   Any use permitted in §
152.032;
   (B)   Apartment buildings of three or four families;
   (C)   Agriculture, farming or truck gardening; and
   (D)   Apartment buildings from 5-12 units.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.048 HEIGHT, YARD, LOT AND WIDTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed 2-1/2 stories or 40 feet
in height, except that church spires, belfries, domes that do not contain
useable space and chimneys may be of any height that does not conflict with
airport requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations. The front yard regulations for §
152.033(B) shall apply.
   (C)   Side yard regulations. The side yard regulations for §
152.033(C) shall apply.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. The rear yard regulations for §
152.033(D) shall apply.
   (E)   General yard regulations. The general yard regulations for §
152.033(E) shall apply.
   (F)   Lot size regulations. The lot size regulations for §
1
152.033(F) shall apply.
   (G)   Width regulations. The width regulations from §
152.033(G) shall apply.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. passed 7-8-98; Am. Ord. 6, Second Series,
passed 12-9-03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.049 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The parking regulations for §
152.034 shall apply.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.050 ACCESSORY BUILDING AND STRUCTURES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All unattached accessory buildings must be located in such a way that
the buildings eaves will be located a minimum of one foot inside the property
lot line.
   (B)   No unattached accessory building shall be located nearer the front lot
line than the principal building on the lot.
   (C)   All unattached accessory buildings shall not exceed a height more than
20 feet.
   (D)   No private garage used or intended for the storage of passenger
automobiles shall exceed 1,200 square feet of gross area, nor shall any access
door or other opening exceed the height of 10 feet, and the building shall not
exceed 20 feet in height.
   (E)   All accessory use buildings must be positioned to meet a setback of at
least three feet.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord.
5A, 2005 Series, passed 7-12-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.051 EXTERIOR STORAGE.
   (A)   In residential districts, all materials, machinery and equipment shall
be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible from
adjoining or adjacent lands and the street, except for the following:
      (1)   Agricultural and landscaping equipment/materials in current use on
the premises;
      (2)   Construction materials/equipment in current use on the premises;
      (3)   All passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles and other
recreational equipment with current licenses in the driveway or back yard;
      (4)   Firewood, neatly stacked, intended for use on the premises; and
      (5)   Lawn furniture and play equipment.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, FULLY SCREENED shall be defined to mean
screened by a compact hedge or fence of at least 75% capacity.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.052 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The general construction requirements from §
152.035 and §
152.036 shall apply.
(Ord. passed 7-8-98; Ord. passed 11-11-21)
B-1 SERVICE BUSINESS–LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.085 PURPOSE.
   The B-1 District is intended for commercial activities which might be
incompatible with uses in the other business districts by reason of traffic
considerations, marketing characteristics, area requirements and other
characteristics inherent in these uses and also is intended for limited
industrial activities, including wholesaling, manufacturing and related uses
which can maintain high standards of appearance and limits external effects,
such as noise, odors, smoke, vibrations and the like.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.086 PERMITTED USES.
   Within a B-1 District, unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no
building or land shall be used except for the following:
   (A)   Armories, convention halls or exhibition halls;
   (B)   New or used automobile or automobile laundries or car washes,
automobile service stations or repair shops, provided the parking lot surface
shall be dust-free and artificial lighting shall be directed away from any
public right-of-way and any residential district;
   (C)   Banks and savings and loan institutions;
   (D)   Bowling alleys, billiard or pool halls;
   (E)   Bakeries employing not more than four persons in the baking process;
   (F)   Bottling establishments;
   (G)   Bus station;
   (H)   Cabinet, carpenter, upholstering or furniture repair shops employing
not more than four persons in the construction or repair process;
   (I)   Dry cleaning establishments, laundries, laundromats, self-servicing or
employing not more than four persons in the laundering, cleaning and pressing
processes;
   (J)   Electrical and electronic manufacturing establishments, electric
service shops;
   (K)   Frozen food lockers for individual or family;
   (L)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable and meat stores;
   (M)   Greenhouses, nurseries and garden stores;
   (N)   Laboratories, medical and dental;
   (O)   Lumber yards, building materials, sales and storage establishments;
   (P)   Marine and boat sales and servicing establishments;
   (Q)   Miniature golf courses, par three golf courses or archery or golf
driving ranges operated for commercial purposes;
   (R)   Monument sales, not including processing;
   (S)   Mortuaries or funeral homes;
   (T)   Motels, hotels or apartment hotels;
   (U)   Municipal and government buildings;
   (V)   Newspaper distribution agencies;
   (W)   Orthopedic and medical appliance stores;
   (X)   Pet and animal hospitals;
   (Y)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops and showrooms;
   (Z)   Photographic, camera and jewelry manufacturing establishments;
   (AA)   Printing and publishing shops;
   (BB)   Public utility structures;
   (CC)   Radio and television service and repair shops;
   (DD)   Recording studios;
   (EE)   Restaurants;
   (FF)   Skating rinks;
   (GG)   Storage and warehousing facilities, wholesale business and office
establishments;
   (HH)   Taverns (enclosed);
   (II)   Telephone booths (outside);
   (JJ)   Theaters;
   (KK)   Vending machines for ice and milk sales;
   (LL)   Accessory uses, other than signs, customarily incidental to the uses
permitted in this section and §
152.087;
   (MM)   Signs as follows:
      (1)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not
exceed 2 square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage or 10% of the building
frontage area or 75 square feet in area, whichever is greater; for corner lots,
the “frontage” used to determine allowable sign area shall be the least
dimension along a street but one equivalent sign area shall be allowed facing
the intersecting street. Such signs may be illuminated;
      (2)   Advertising sign structures shall be limited to one for a lot of
100-foot frontage or less and to only one for each additional 100 feet of
additional lot frontage; such structure may not contain more than two signs per
facing, nor exceed 55 feet in total length. No advertising sign may be erected
within 100 feet of an adjoining residential district. The signs may be
illuminated;
      (3)   No sign shall project higher than 6 feet above the height of the
building or 32 feet above average grade at the building line, whichever is
greater;
      (4)   Rotating signs shall not be permitted;
      (5)   Signs painted on a building shall be governed by the square footage
limitations specified above. The signs shall be maintained in good condition
and shall be repainted, removed or painted out when, in the opinion of the City
Council, they are not so maintained;
      (6)   No sign shall be placed that resembles any official marker erected
by a governmental agency or displaying such words as “stop” or “danger;”
      (7)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air or access to any
building;
      (8)   Political signs may be permitted for a period of not more than 30
days before and ten days after an election;
      (9)   Upon notification by the Zoning Administrator that a sign is
rotted, unsafe or unsightly, no longer being used by the business or business
has closed, the owner of the sign or owner of property thereunder shall remove
or repair same; and
      (10)   Where a sign is illuminated, the source of light shall not be
visible from any public right-of- way and such light shall be directed away
from any residential district.
      (11)   Signs that are not posted by authorized government officials are
prohibited within the public right-of-way, easements or publicly owned land
including but not limited to parking lots, streets, or alleys.
      (12)   Signs shall not be attached to trees, utility poles, governmental
signs, public benches, streetlights, or other public infrastructure.
      (13)   All signs, with the exception of temporary, portable, and
freestanding signs, must be securely attached to the building.
      (14)   All signs shall complement and not compete with, the character of
the downtown.
      (15)   Portable signs shall be constructed of wood, plastic or metal, and
shall have a professional appearance.
      (16)   Portable signs.
         (a)   Portable signs shall be allowed in all zoning districts within
the city except that in residential districts, sandwich board signs will be
permitted only for non-residential uses and uses by conditional use permit.
         (b)   There shall be only one portable sign allowed for each entity.
         (c)   Portable signs shall not exceed eight square feet in size per
surface area.
         (d)   If placed on a sidewalk, a portable sign shall not take up more
than three feet of sidewalk width and shall not be placed in the middle of the
sidewalk.
         (e)   Portable signs may be removed by the city if they interfere with
any city activities (i.e. snow removal, maintenance of the surrounding area,
and the like).
         (f)   Portable signs shall be displayed only during the times that the
entity is open. No portable sign shall be displayed overnight or when there has
been any snow accumulation. Portable signs that do not comply with this
requirement may be removed and disposed of by the city.
         (g)   Portable signs must either be weighted down or removed when
there are wind gusts of 20 m.p.h. or greater.
         (h)   Under no circumstances shall a portable sign be used instead of
permanent building signage.
         (i)   Signs shall be located no closer than ten feet from any street
corner or alley corner.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 2, 2012 Series, passed 3-13-12; Am. Ord. 3,
2012 Series, passed 3-13-12; Am. Ord. 4, 2012 Series, passed 3-13-12)
§ 152.087 USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Within a B-1 District, building or land may be used for one or more of the
following uses if granted a special use permit:
   (A)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in §
152.086 which comply with the performance standards of this district;
   (B)   New or used farm implement sales or storage lots, provided:
      (1)   The parking lot shall be surfaced with a dust-free material, and
plans for the arrangement of entrances, exits, and parking stalls shall
accompany the request for a special use permit; and
      (2)   Artificial lighting shall be directed away from any public right-
of-way and any residential district.
   (C)   Drive-in restaurants, drive-in theaters or similar uses that provide
goods and services to patrons in automobiles, provided:
      (1)   A screen of acceptable design shall be constructed along the
property line when said use is abutting any residential district;
      (2)   The parking area shall be surfaced with a dust-free material and
plans for the arrangement of entrances, exits and parking stalls shall
accompany the request for a special use permit; and
      (3)   Lighting shall be directed away from any public right-of-way and
any residential district.
   (D)   Parking in required yards;
   (E)   Other business activities of the same general character as listed in §
152.086; and
   (F)   Apartment buildings from 5-12 units. In addition, first class mailed
notice of the special use permit hearing must be sent to all property owners
within 350 feet of the proposed project, at least 10 days prior to the hearing.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.088 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Structures shall not exceed 4 stories or 45 feet in height, except
that church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain usable space, water
towers, chimneys or smoke stacks, cooling towers and elevated penthouses may be
erected with no height limitations except airport requirements.
      (2)   On any lot abutting a residential district, the height regulation
of the residential district shall be observed.
   (B)   Front yard regulations, measured from lot line.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 20
feet; except as set forth in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   On every lot located across the street from any residential
district, the front yard requirement of that residential district shall be
observed.
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard on each side of the building, each yard
having a width of not less than 15 feet; except as set forth in division (C)(2)
below.
      (2)   Where the district abuts a residential district, the side yard
shall have a width of not less than 25 feet.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 20 feet;
except as set forth in division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   On any lot which abuts any other district in which a rear yard of
less than 20 feet is allowed, the rear yard regulations of that district shall
be used.
   (E)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of a lot shall be occupied
by buildings.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 3, 2007 Series, passed 7-10-07) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 152.089 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The required parking and loading spaces shall be provided on the
premises of each use. No parking shall be allowed in any required yard except
as provided in §
152.087. Each parking space shall contain a minimum area of not less than 300
square feet including access drives and a width of not less than 9 feet and
depth of not less than 20 feet.
   (B)   The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for various
uses shall be as follows:
      (1)   Automobile service stations: four parking spaces, plus two parking
spaces for each service stall. Such parking spaces shall be in addition to gas
pump service areas;
      (2)   Sales establishments for autos, trailers, boats and marine
equipment, farm implements, garden supplies, building materials and auto repair
services: six parking spaces, plus one parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet;
      (3)   Bowling alley: five parking spaces for each bowling lane;
      (4)   Drive-in restaurant: 20 parking spaces or 1 space for each 20
square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;
      (5)   Motel: one parking space for each rental room or suite;
      (6)   Miniature golf course, archery range or golf driving range: ten
parking spaces;
      (7)   Assembly or exhibition hall, auditorium, theater or sports arena:
one parking space for each four seats, based on design capacity;
      (8)   Restaurant, café, night club, tavern or bar: one parking space for
each 100 square feet of floor area;
      (9)   Skating rink or dance hall: one parking space for each 200 square
feet of floor area;
      (10)   Other retail stores and service establishments: one parking space
for each 100 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each employee on the
major shift or one space for each 350 feet of gross floor area within the
building, whichever is greater;
      (11)   Professional offices, medical and dental clinics and animal
hospitals: four parking spaces, plus one parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet;
      (12)   Wholesale business establishments and storage or warehouse
establishments: one parking space for each employee on the major shift or one
space for each 2,000 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater,
plus one off-street parking space for each company motor vehicle when
customarily kept on the premises; and
      (13)   Manufacturing or processing plant: one off-street parking space
for each employee on the major shift or one off-street parking space for each
350 square feet or gross floor area within the building, whichever is greater,
plus one space for each company motor vehicle when customarily kept on the
premises.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.090 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   In order to ensure compliance with the performance standards set forth
in division (B) of this section, the City Council may require the owner or
operator of any permitted use to have made such investigations or tests as may
be required to show adherence to the performance standards. The investigation
or tests as are required shall be carried out by an independent testing
organization selected by the city. The investigations or testing shall be
ordered by the owner or operator.
   (B)   The cost of same shall be shared equally by the owner or operator and
the city, unless the investigations or tests disclose noncompliance with the
performance standards, in which situation the entire costs shall be paid by the
owner or operator.
      (1)   Emission of or creation of noise, odors, vibration, smoke, dust,
fumes and gases shall all conform to standards as set forth by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   Any lights used for exterior illumination shall direct light away
from adjoining districts. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from
floodlights, spotlights or high-temperature processing and as differentiated
from general illumination, shall not be visible beyond the limits of the
district.
      (3)   The design and construction of water supply facilities and
treatment of all industrial sewage and waste shall comply with city and state
health standards and requirements.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.100 PURPOSE.
   The B-2 District is intended for retail stores and offices which are
mutually compatible and can benefit from and contribute to a compact shopping
area serving the city or region.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.101 PERMITTED USES.
   Within a B-2 District, unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no
building or land shall be used except for the following:
   (A)   Animal or pet shops;
   (B)   Antique, gift or jewelry stores;
   (C)   Apparel, dry goods or department stores;
   (D)   Appliance, sewing machine sales and service, hardware paint and
wallpaper stores, bicycle sales and repair;
   (E)   Art and school supply, book and stationery stores;
   (F)   Art, photographic, music and dance studios;
   (G)   Bakeries employing not more than four persons in the baking process;
   (H)   Banks, savings and loan associations and loan and finance companies;
   (I)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (J)   Business, commercial or trade schools;
   (K)   Camera or photographic supply stores, hobby, toy or record stores,
sporting goods stores, musical instrument stores;
   (L)   Clinics, for people only;
   (M)   Drug, variety and five-and-ten-cent stores;
   (N)   Dry cleaning and laundry collection stations;
   (O)   Furniture stores, carpet and rug stores;
   (P)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable, floral or meat stores, candy, ice cream,
soft drink or confectionary stores, excluding drive-in type service;
   (Q)   Leather goods and luggage, shoe stores and shoe repair service;
   (R)   Liquor stores and taverns;
   (S)   Medical supply stores;
   (T)   Newsstands;
   (U)   Laboratories;
   (V)   Physical culture and health clubs, gyms;
   (W)   Pipe and tobacco shops;
   (X)   Post offices;
   (Y)   Professional and other business offices, employment agencies;
   (Z)   Radio or television broadcasting or transmitting stations or studios;
radio and television repair, when operated as an accessory to a retail sales
establishment;
   (AA)   Restaurants, tearooms, delicatessens, cafés, excluding drive-in type
of service;
   (BB)   Tailor shops;
   (CC)   Telephone booths (outside);
   (DD)   Theaters;
   (EE)   Accessory uses as follows:
      (1)   Any accessory use, except signs, customarily incident to the above
permitted uses;
      (2)   Signs as regulated in §
152.086.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.102 USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Buildings or land may be used for the following, if granted a special use
permit: any business activity of the same general character as those listed in
§
152.101, and apartment buildings from 5-12 units.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.103 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The height regulations of the B-2 District shall be those of §
152.088(A).
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.104 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Lighting shall be directed away from public rights-of-way and
residential districts.
   (B)   An awning, canopy or marquee suspended from a building may extend over
the public right-of- way ten feet and not closer than two feet of the curb line
extended. The structures shall be not less than eight feet from the sidewalk or
ground grade line and the owner of such structure shall be responsible for its
structural safety.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.115 PURPOSE.
   The I-1 District is intended for general industrial uses which, due to their
size and nature, would not be appropriate in the B-1 District.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.116 PERMITTED USES.
   Within an I-1 District, unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no
building or land shall be used except for the following:
   (A)   Any use permitted in §
152.086;
   (B)   Blacksmith shops;
   (C)   Canning factories and creameries;
   (D)   Contractors’ offices, shops, yards, and storage facilities for
plumbing, heating, glazing, painting, paperhanging, roofing, ventilating, air
conditioning, lumber, masonry, electrical and refrigeration industries;
   (E)   Freight terminals;
   (F)   Fuel and ice sales and storage facilities;
   (G)   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles and farm
implements;
   (H)   Gasoline and oil bulk stations and distributing plants;
   (I)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
   (J)   Monument works;
   (K)   Public service structures, including power substations, gas stations,
sewage disposal plants, telephone exchanges, police or fire stations, elevated
tanks and waterworks;
   (L)   Accessory uses, as follows:
      (1)   Accessory uses, except signs, customarily incident to the above
permitted uses;
      (2)   Signs as regulated in §
152.086.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.117 USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Within an I-1 District, buildings or land may be used for one or more of the
following uses if granted a special permit:
   (A)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in §
152.116 which comply with the performance standards of this district;
   (B)   Extraction, processing or storage of sand and gravel, stone or other
raw materials;
   (C)   Retail and service establishments essential to the operation of a
General Industrial District;
   (D)   Auto and farm implement salvage yards (junk yards).
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.118 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed 6 stories or 75 feet in
height.
   (B)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   No building shall be located within 25 feet of any residential
district.
      (2)   Except for railroad loading areas, no parking or loading space
shall be located within 25 feet of any residential district.
      (3)   Any open storage of materials shall be located or screened so as
not to be visible from any residential district.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.119 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The performance standards of the I-1 District shall be those of §
152.090, except that measurement or determination of noise, odor and vibration
shall be made at the boundary of the I-1 District.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.130 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuation and limitations. A nonconforming use may be continued
subject to the following limitations and such further regulations as the
Council may require for securing the purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of land shall not be enlarged or increased in
land area, nor shall such nonconforming use be moved to any part of the parcel
of land upon which the same was not conducted prior to the adoption of this
chapter;
      (2)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed unless changed to a
conforming use; such use shall not thereafter be changed to a nonconforming
use;
      (3)   If any existing nonconforming use of building or land is
discontinued for a period of one year it cannot be resumed;
      (4)   No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God
or the public enemy to the extent of more than 50% of its value shall be
restored except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter; and
      (5)   Alterations may be made to a residential building containing
nonconforming residential units when such alterations will improve the
livability of the unit, provided the number of dwelling units in the building
is not increased.
      (6)   Existing houses in business and industry zones shall be considered
a conforming use.
   (B)   Structural alterations for safety. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the strengthening or restoration of a wall or structural member in a
building maintained for nonconforming use when such action is taken pursuant to
a building permit as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Ord. passed --)
§ 152.131 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance. Special use permits may be issued for any of the following;
      (1)   Any of the uses or purposes for which such permits are required or
permitted by the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Public utility or public service uses or public building in any
district when found to be necessary for the public health, safety, convenience
or welfare;
      (3)   To classify as a conforming use any institutional use existing in
any district at the time of the establishment of such district; and
      (4)   To permit the location of any of the following uses in a district
from which they are excluded by the provisions of this chapter: airport,
library, community center, church, hospital, fairgrounds, any institution of an
educational, philanthropic or charitable nature, crematory, mausoleum or any
other place for the disposal of the human dead.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for the issuance of a special use permit shall be made
to the Planning Commission. Any proceedings to classify certain uses as
conforming uses as provided in this section may be initiated either by such
application or by the Council or by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may hold such hearings on the proposal to issue a special use permit
as it may consider necessary; but at least one public hearing shall be held on
any application for a use permit for the establishment of any use listed in
division (A)(4) of this section. The Planning Commission shall make a report to
the Council upon any application for special permit and shall recommend to the
Council whatever action it deems advisable; but it shall not recommend the
granting of a permit unless it finds that the establishment, maintenance or
conducting of the use for which a use permit is sought will under the
circumstances of the particular case be non-detrimental:
         (a)   To the health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or welfare
of the persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such use; or
         (b)   To the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements
in the neighborhood.
      (2)   It may designate conditions and require guaranties in the granting
of use permits in the manner provided in §
152.133 for the granting of adjustments. Upon receipt of the report of the
Planning Commission, the Council may hold whatever public hearings it deems
advisable and shall make a decision upon the proposal to grant a use permit. If
the Council finds that the conditions exist which are necessary under this
section before the Planning Commission may recommend the granting of a use
permit, the Council may grant the use permit and it may attach to the permit
such conditions and guaranties as are provided in §
152.133 for the granting of adjustments.
   (C)   Conformance. Any use permitted under the terms of any special use
permit shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of such
permit and of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
   (D)   Notification.  
      (1)   All property owners within a 350-foot radius of the proposed
project, and at least ten days prior to the hearing; and
      (2)   Two notices in the legal section of the city’s official newspaper.
The cost for such notification shall be paid for by the applicant.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Ord. passed --)
§ 152.132 BUILDING AND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Requirements. Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm or
corporation shall construct, erect, alter, wreck or move any building or
structure or parts thereof within the corporate limits of the city without
first securing a building and use permit from the city. It shall not be
necessary to secure a building and use permit in order to alter, repair or
otherwise change the interior of any residential building provided the proposed
alteration, repair or change will not affect the exterior dimension of such
building or change the existing use and occupancy thereof.
   (B)   Application. Application for a building permit shall be made to the
Building Official on blank forms to be furnished by the city. Each application
for a permit to construct or alter a building shall be accompanied by a plan
drawn to scale showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon and the size
and location of the building and accessory buildings to be erected.
Applications shall contain such other information as may be deemed necessary
for the proper enforcement of this chapter or any other ordinance.
   (C)   Fees. The fee for a building permit shall be determined by the City
Council.
   (D)   Issuance.  The City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the
building permit only after determining that the building plans together with
the application comply with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 4, 2007 Series, passed 7-10-07)
§ 152.133 ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Limitations. The Council, in each case as hereinafter provided, shall
have power to grant adjustments in and exceptions to any of the provisions of
this chapter to the extent of the following and no further:
      (1)   To vary or modify the strict application of any of the regulations
or provisions contained in this chapter in cases in which there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of such strict application;
and
      (2)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
thereof divides a lot in one ownership at the time of the passage of this
chapter.
   (B)   Application. Application for any adjustment permissible under the
provisions of this section shall be made to the Building Official in the form
of a written application for a building permit or for a permit to use the
property or premises as set forth in the application. An application for an
adjustment shall be accompanied by payment of a fee in such amount as may be
set by motion or resolution of the Council from time to time in addition to the
regular building permit fee, if any. Upon receipt of any application, such
officer shall set a time and place for a public hearing before the Planning
Commission on such application. At least ten days before the date of the
hearing, a notice of the hearing shall be published once in the official
newspaper.
   (C)   Planning Commission action. The Commission shall thereupon make its
decision upon the application and report its recommendation to the Council
within ten days after such hearing. In recommending granting any adjustment or
variance under the provision of this section, the Planning Commission shall
designate such conditions in connection therewith as will in its opinion secure
substantially the objectives of the regulation involved; and in recommending
denial the Commission shall specify the reasons why the variance cannot be
adjusted to meet the purposes of this chapter as to light, air, public health,
safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare.
   (D)   Council action. No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
section unless and until it is ordered by the Council. In reporting its
decision to the Council, the Planning Commission shall report its findings with
respect thereto and all facts in connection therewith and shall specifically
and fully set forth the conditions upon which variance is recommended. Upon
receipt of such report, the Council shall by resolution either accept or reject
the same and shall either grant or deny the application for permit according to
its own determination of the question involved. In all cases in which
adjustments or variances are granted under the provisions of this section, the
Council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary to
ensure compliance with the conditions designated in connection therewith.
   (E)   Limitations for granting applications.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend the granting of any
application, and the Council shall not grant any application, unless they find
the following facts:
         (a)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
land, building or use referred to in the application;
         (b)   That the granting of the application is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights;
         (c)   That the granting of the application will not materially affect
adversely the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the property of the applicant and will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood.
      (2)   At the hearing the applicant shall present a statement and evidence
in such form as the Planning Commission may require to show these facts.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 5, 2007 Series, passed 7-10-07)
§ 152.134 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Justification for amendment. This chapter may be amended whenever the
public necessity and convenience and the general welfare require such amendment
by following the procedure specified in this section.
   (B)   Who shall initiate. An amendment may be initiated by the Council or
the Planning Commission or by a petition of the owner or owners of the actual
property involved.
   (C)   Planning Commission procedure. Before any amendment is adopted the
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing thereon after a
notice of the hearing has been published in the official newspaper at least ten
days before the hearing. Following the hearing the Planning Commission shall
make a report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment and
shall file a copy with the City Administrator-Clerk-Treasurer within five days
of the meeting at which the date of the hearing was set. Failure of the
Planning Commission so to report shall be deemed to be approved by the
Commission of the proposed amendment.
   (D)   Council procedure. Upon the filing of such report or upon the
expiration of such five days as aforesaid, the Council may hold such public
hearings upon the amendment as it deems advisable. After the conclusion of the
hearings, if any, the Council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in
such forms as it deems advisable. The amendment shall be effective only if two-
thirds of all the members of the Council concur in its passage.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
§ 152.135 ENFORCEMENT.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Building Official, in addition to
other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in the name of
the City of Winnebago. He or she hereby shall have the powers of a police
officer to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, to restrain, correct, or
abate such violations to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or
land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about said
premises.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96; Am. Ord. 6, 2007 Series, passed 7-10-07)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions
hereof, who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof or who shall
make any false statement in any document required to be submitted under the
provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as determined by §
10.99. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 151, passed 1-10-96)
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
154.01   Statutory authorization and purpose
   
154.02   General provisions
   
154.03   Establishment of floodplain district
   
154.04   Permitted uses and standards in the floodplain district
   
154.05   Administration
   
154.06   Reserved
   
154.07   Penalties and enforcement
   
154.08   Amendments
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of Minnesota
has, in M.S. Chapter 103F and Chapter 394, delegated the responsibility to
local government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of the
City of Winnebago. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation,
which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare by minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      (2)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This chapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59 -78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (3)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
§ 154.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which chapter applies. This chapter applies to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the City of Winnebago shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Maps adopted in division (B) of this section as being located within the
boundaries of the Floodplain District. The Floodplain District is an overlay
district that is superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The standards
imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other requirements in
this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive standards will apply.
   (B)   Incorporation of maps by reference.
      (1)   The following maps together with all attached material are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of the Official Zoning Map and
this chapter:
         (a)   Flood Insurance Study for Faribault County, Minnesota and
Incorporated Areas (dated 11/17/1981).
         (b)   Flood Insurance Rate Map panels enumerated below:
            1.   Faribault County Panel 2706690175B, effective 05/17/1982;
            2.   Faribault County Panel 2706690160B, effective 05/17/1982.
         (c)   Flood Boundary and Floodway Map panel enumerated below:
            1.   Faribault County Panel 2706690160, effective 05/17/1982.
      (2)   These materials are on file in the Winnebago Municipal Center.
   (C)   Interpretation. The boundaries of the Floodplain District are
determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      (1)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated
on the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood elevations
must be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must interpret the
boundary location based on the ground elevations that existed on the site on
the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area
within the regulatory floodplain, and other available technical data.
      (2)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning Commission
and to submit technical evidence.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the City of Winnebago or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (F)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
   (G)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this chapter must be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they
have in common usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the REGIONAL FLOOD, as defined.
The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance survey.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings, manufactured homes, and other
structures, recreational vehicles, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, drilling operations, or storage of materials or equipment.
      FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. §
344.02 Subd. 1(a)-(d). An open type fence of posts and wire is not considered
to be a structure under this chapter. Fences that have the potential to
obstruct flood flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls, are not
permitted in the Floodplain District.
      FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain located outside of the
floodway. FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in
the Flood Insurance Study, LeSueur County, Minnesota and Incorporated Areas.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
      FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or
hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational vehicle”.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence (with the exception of farm fences), stockpile, refuse, fill,
structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any channel,
watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard, or change the
direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by such water.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the
term “travel trailer/travel vehicle”.
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1% chance/
100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE
FLOOD used in the Flood Insurance Study.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds,
detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, and other similar items.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)    Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.” For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” is
as defined in 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 59.1.
   (H)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference
into division (B) of this section may include floodplain areas that lie outside
of the corporate boundaries of the City of Winnebago at the time of adoption of
this chapter. If any of these floodplain areas are annexed into the city after
the date of adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will
be subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of
annexation.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
§ 154.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Areas included. The Floodplain District for the City of Winnebago
includes those areas designated as Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
adopted in §
154.02(B). The Floodplain District is an overlay district to all existing land
use districts. The requirements of this chapter apply in addition to other
legally established regulations of the community. Where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter apply.
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. Within the Floodplain District, all uses not listed as
permitted uses in §
154.04 are prohibited.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
§ 154.04 PERMITTED USES AND STANDARDS IN THE FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted within the Floodplain
District without a permit provided that they are allowed in any underlying
zoning district and not prohibited by any other ordinance; and provided that
they do not require structures, fill, obstructions, excavations, drilling
operations, storage of materials or equipment or any other form of development
as defined in §
154.02(G) of this chapter. If the use does require any other form of
development, a permit and compliance with division (B) of this section is
required. The permit requirement may be waived if there is an application for a
public waters work permit from the Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting. Farm fences that do not
obstruct flood flows are permitted.
      (2)   Outdoor plant nurseries and horticulture.
      (3)   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, shooting
preserves, target ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or multiple
purpose recreational trails.
      (4)   Lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
      (5)   Railroads, roads, bridges, utility transmission lines, pipelines
and other public utilities, provided that the Department of Natural Resources
is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit.
   (B)   Standards for permitted uses.
      (1)   The use must have low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use must not cause any increase in the stage of the 1% chance
or regional flood or cause an increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches
affected. This provision applies to structures (temporary or permanent), fill
(including fill for roads and levees), deposits, obstructions, storage of
materials or equipment, and all other uses.
      (3)   Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
      (4)   Public utilities, roads, railroad tracks and bridges to be located
within the floodplain must be designed in accordance with divisions (B)(2) and
(3) of this section, or must obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
meeting the requirements of 44 CFR 603(d).
         (a)   When failure or interruption of these public facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area, such facilities must be
elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Where failure or interruption of service would not endanger
public health or safety, minor or auxiliary roads, railroads or utilities may
be constructed at a lower elevation.
      (5)   New or replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewage systems
must be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
§ 154.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the City Council must administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Development approvals. Any construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, improvement, moving or demolition of any building or structure must
comply with the requirements of this chapter. No mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation, obstruction, drilling operation or other form of
development as defined in §
154.02(G) of this chapter are allowed, other than the uses identified in §
154.04(A) and the activities allowed under §
154.06.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior to
conducting the following activities:
         (a)   Expansion, change, enlargement, or alteration of a nonconforming
use as specified in §
154.06 of this chapter. Normal maintenance and repair also requires a permit if
such work, separately or in conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a
substantial improvement as defined in §
154.02(G) of this chapter.
         (b)   Any use that requires fill, obstruction, excavation, storage of
materials, or any other form of development as defined in §
154.02(G) of this chapter.
      (2)   Permit applications must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
on forms provided for that purpose and shall include the following where
applicable: plans drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill, or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
      (3)   Prior to granting a permit, the Zoning Administrator must verify
that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal permits.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   An application for a variance to the provisions of this chapter
will be processed and reviewed in accordance with applicable state statutes and
the City of Winnebago’s Zoning Code.
      (2)   A variance must not allow a use that is not allowed in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law.
      (3)   The following additional variance criteria of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency must be met:
         (a)   Variances must not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon (i) a showing
of good and sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   The City Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
variances to the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance to
provide at least ten days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (5)   A copy of all decisions granting variances must be forwarded to the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a variance
that: 1) The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and 2) Such construction
below the base or regional flood level increases risks to life and property.
      (7)   The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and must report such
variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of the National
Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   (E)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. Chapter 103G.245, this will suffice as
adequate notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the
Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (F)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease base
flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
§ 154.06 RESERVED.
§ 154.07 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances) constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this chapter restricts the City of
Winnebago from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond
to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each
additional day that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this
chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
   (C)   Enforcement. In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the
Zoning Administrator and City Council may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The city must act in good faith to enforce
these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
§ 154.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Floodplain designation - restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the Official Zoning Map shall not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources if the Commissioner determines that, through other measures, lands
are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   Amendments require DNR and FEMA approval. All amendments to this
chapter must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department
of Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner of the DNR must
approve the amendment prior to community approval.
   (C)   Map amendments require ordinance amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
154.02(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 155-2019, passed - -19)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Chapter
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   NEW STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a tract of land in the northeast quarter of
175      4-26-1989   Section 3, Township 103 North, Range 28 West in Faribault
                     County into the corporate limits of the city.
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating an alley running east and west through Block 23
9        8-2-1875    of the original plat of the city between Lots 1, 2, 3 and
                     4 on the north and Lots 10, 11, 12 and 13 on the south.
                     Vacating a strip of Blue Earth Avenue 10 feet wide on the
                     east side of the avenue running the whole length thereof
                     from north to south and a strip of Blue Earth Avenue 10
10       9-6-1875    feet wide on the west side of the avenue running the whole
                     length of the avenue from north to south making Blue Earth
                     Avenue when the two strips each 10 feet wide from east to
                     west are vacated one on each side thereof 80 feet wide.
                     Vacating part of the alley beginning at the north end of
11       3-6-1876    the alley running north and south through Block 6 of the
                     original plat of the city and running thence south 157
                     feet to the south end of Lot 4 in the Block.
                     Vacating part of Young Street commencing at the northeast
                     corner of Lot 1 in Block 23 of the original plat of the
29       11-15-1882  city and running thence west along the south line of Young
                     Street to the northwest corner of Lot 5 in the Block
                     thence north eight feet, thence east to Sixth Street in
                     the city.
                     Vacating an alley running east and west through Block 5 of
54       6-7-1900    Collage Addition to the city and Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
                     8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 on the south side and Lots 13, 14, 15,
                     16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 on the north side.
—      1-23-1953   Vacating the east 20 feet of Seventh Street between Mill
                     Street and Young Street in the city.
131      12-11-1962  Vacating 550 South Avenue from the intersection of 250
                     West Street to the intersection of 500 West Street.
                    
 
TABLE III: NEW STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
12       3-6-1876    Laying out a new street running south from Seventh Street.
17       8-21-1876   Laying out a new street west from Holley Street in the
                     city.
18       11-6-1876   Laying out a new street to be known as Hotchkiss Street in
                     the city.
62       8-4-1902    Laying out continuance of Robertson Street from Holley
                     Street south to Cleveland Street in the city.
103      10-10-1938  Opening a public alley located in the east 20 feet of Lot
                     11 in Block 5 in the city.
                     Accepting a tract of land and dedicating a new street
- -      3-13-2018   described as being in the NW 1/4 NW 1/4 Section 2-T103N-
                     R28W, Faribault County, to be named Seventh Avenue South
                     West.
                    
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
       11-12- Granting Winnebago Cable Television the right to sell and/or assign
Res. 6 1986   its cable system, franchise and franchise’s rights to Vantage Cable,
              Inc.
       5-11-  Amending Ord. 143 and Ord. 150 by granting consent to the transfer of
Res. 7 1988   the stock to Triax IV and the transfer of the cable television
              franchise to Triax Midwest.
       1-12-  Granting to Interstate Power Company a franchise to erect, install,
77     1994   construct, reconstruct, repair, own, operate, maintain, manage and
              control an electric plant within the city for a period of 25 years.
Res.   7-10-  Authorizing the transfer of control of and certain ownership interests
114-96 1996   in the cable television franchise owned and operated by Triax Midwest
              Associates.
Res.   6-9-   Approving the transfer of the cable television franchise from Triax
157-99 1999   Midwest Associates to Mediacom LLC.
1,     1-14-
Second 2003   Center Point Energy Franchise.
Series
2,     8-9-
2011   2011   Center Point Energy Franchise.
Series
3,     10-11-
2011   2011   Interstate Power Company (Alliant Energy) Franchise.
Series
7,     12-13-
2011   2011   Interstate Power Company (Alliant Energy) Franchise.
Series
2,     1-10-
Second 2023   Center Point Energy Franchise.
Series
             
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite             Code Section
12.25                 33.01,
                      33.04
12.31                 33.06
Chapter 13            30.03,
                      30.04
14.57–14.70         113.011,
                      113.999
15.0418–15.0426     113.058
16B.59–16B.75       150.01
16B.62, Subd. 1       150.01
16B.65, Subd. 1       150.01
16B.69                150.01
16B.70                150.01
16D.04                30.17
17.135                90.01
18.171, Subd. 5       92.22
65B.48                75.05
84.81–84.88         74.01
84.92, Subd. 8        92.20
88.16                 90.01
Chapter 103F          154.01
103G.245              154.05
103G.291              51.65
115.01, Subd. 8       52.001
115.07                52.001
116.06, Subd. 11      90.01
120A.05               116.01
120A.24               116.01
144.382, Subd. 4      51.66
144.391               114.01
152.0263, Subd. 5     116.01
157.16                113.003
157.16, Subd. 3d      113.003
Chapter 168B          92.21
                      70.01,
Chapter 169           75.11,
                      77.04,
                      92.18
169.01                92.20,
                      92.21
169.045               77.04
169.045, Subd. 1(3)   77.01
169.045, Subd. 7      75.10,
                      77.04
169.345               75.05
169.345, Subd. 2      75.01
169.522               75.08
169.70                77.04
216B.1642             150.02
237.162               93.44
237.163               93.44
245.462, Subd. 23     116.01
300.06                93.38
327.31–327.35       152.005
Chapter 329           111.03
                      113.001,
                      113.002,
                      113.006,
Chapter 340A          113.008,
                      113.011,
                      113.035,
                      113.050,
                      113.999
340A.101              113.003,
                      113.085
340A.404, Subd. 4a    113.085
340A.404, Subd. 4b    113.085
340A.408, Subd. 2b    113.085
340A.408, Subd. 3     113.085
340A.408, Subd. 5     113.008
                      113.035,
340A.409              113.052,
                      113.086
340A.413, Subd. 3     113.006
340A.414              113.010,
                      113.072
340A.504              113.094
340A.504, Subd. 3     113.085,
                      113.094
340A.504, Subd. 3c    113.085
340A.509              113.002
340A.801              113.086
Chapter 342           116.01
342.01                116.01
342.01, Subd. 50      116.01
342.11                116.02
342.13                116.02
342.13(c)             116.01
342.17                116.01
342.22                116.01,
                      116.02
342.22, Subd. 4(b)    116.02
342.22, Subd. 5(e)    116.02
342.24                116.02
344.02 Subd. 1(a)-(d) 154.02
347.51                94.12
347.541, Subd. 4      94.20
Chapter 349           112.01
364.06                30.03,
                      30.04
364.09                30.03,
                      30.04
366.011               32.30
366.012               32.30
Chapter 394           154.01
412.151               51.66
412.591, Subd. 2      30.02
412.601 - 412.751     51.66
415.01                32.30
415.11                30.01
429.011–429.111     93.15
429.101               92.03
444.075               53.01,
                      53.05
462.357               116.01
462.358, Subd. 7      151.08
463.15–463.26       92.01
469.001–469.047     31.24
469.090–469.108     31.24
469.106               31.21
469.107               31.20
469.124–469.134     31.24
469.174 Subd. 8       31.24
500.30                150.02
Chapter 505           34.05
514.67                92.01
626.862               10.98
                      
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Cite Code Section
Minn. Rules Cite      Code Section
7005.0705–7005.0805 90.01
Chapter 7030          92.18
Chapter 7080          52.038
Chapter 7819          93.36
7819.0100             93.36
7819.0100 subps. 1–293.36
7819.100              93.40
7819.1000 subp. 3     93.37
7819.1100             93.41,
                      93.44
7819.1250             93.53
7819.1300             93.45
7819.3000             93.41
7819.3100             93.50
7819.3200             93.52
7819.4000             93.49
7819.4100             93.49
7819.5000             93.50
7819.5100             93.50
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
6        11-12-1986  T.S.O. IV
7        5-11-1988   T.S.O. IV
17-89    4-26-1989   31.15–
                     31.24
114-96   7-10-1996   T.S.O. IV
124-97   5-14-1997   31.01
157-99   6-9-1999    T.S.O. IV
176-2001 1-9-2001    32.13
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Code Section
–              1-23-1953   T.S.O. II
9                8-2-1875    T.S.O. II
10               9-6-1875    T.S.O. II
11               3-6-1876    T.S.O. II
12               3-6-1876    T.S.O. III
17               8-21-1876   T.S.O. III
18               11-6-1876   T.S.O. III
29               11-15-1882  T.S.O. II
54               6-7-1900    T.S.O. II
62               8-4-1902    T.S.O. III
77               1-12-1994   T.S.O. IV
                             51.01-
                             51.10,
                             51.25,
84               7-11-2000   51.27-
                             51.31,
                             51.45,
                             51.49,
                             51.50
85               5-21-1923   93.01
94               4-4-1933    113.025-
                             113.033
                             113.026,
Am. Ord. 94      1-7-1935    113.028,
                             113.030,
                             113.031
Am. Ord. 94      10-14-1958  113.031
Am. Ord. 94      2-14-1961   113.031
Am. Ord. 94      2-12-1964   113.031
Am. Ord. 94      6-8-1966    113.031
Am. Ord. 94      5-30-1973   113.030
Am. Ord. 94      10-8-1975   113.031
Am. Ord. 94      1-14-1976   113.030
Am. Ord. 94      9-19-1984   113.031
101              7-21-1937   93.02
103              10-10-1938  T.S.O. III
104              4-9-1940    T.S.O. IV
                             114.01-
107              11-12-1997  114.12,
                             114.98
107.5            1-13-1999   130.02
108              5-11-1943   110.02
Am. Ord. 108     2-10-1965   110.02
                             52.001-
                             52.005,
                             52.020-
                             52.024,
                             52.035-
117              2-26-1986   52.041,
                             52.055-
                             52.070,
                             52.085-
                             52.099,
                             52.998
117-1/2          2-26-1986   52.110-
                             52.115
119              4-20-1954   T.S.O. IV
120              11-23-1954  150.15-
                             150.17
121              3-13-1956   73.01-
                             73.03
121.5            7-13-1994   73.15,
                             73.16
122              7-10-1956   113.034
127              9-10-1957   32.01-
                             32.12
128              9-10-1957   70.01
Am. Ord. 128     4-8-1964    70.01
129              9-10-1957   30.15-
                             30.20
Am. Ord. 129     3-11-1964   30.16
Am. Ord. 129     1-8-1992    30.16
131              12-11-1962  T.S.O. II
135              7-10-1963   113.035
137              11-12-1964  31.35-
                             31.38
139              4-12-1967   110.01
143              6-30-1971   T.S.O. IV
144              11-30-1971  113.070-
                             113.075
Am. Ord. 144     5-11-1984   113.075
145              6-20-1972   50.01-
                             50.07
Am. Ord. 145     12-8-1982   50.05
Am. Ord. 145     6-8-1983    50.05
147              10-10-1973  93.22
148              2-13-1974   74.01,
                             74.02
Am. Ord. 148     2-12-1997   74.02
Am. Ord. 148     4-9-1997    74.02
149              7-10-1974   93.15-
                             93.22
150              1-8-1975    T.S.O. IV
154              8-10-1977   113.050-
                             113.058
155              11-9-1977   30.02
                             151.01-
                             151.10,
                             151.25-
156              1-18-1978   151.29,
                             151.40-
                             151.44,
                             151.98
160              2-28-1979   T.S.O. IV
162              6-21-1979   T.S.O. IV
                             110.01,
                             110.02,
166              1-13-1982   113.028,
                             113.053,
                             113.071
167              12-12-1995  90.01
167.5            1-11-1995   90.01
169.5            4-8-1998    91.01,
                             91.02
Am. Ord. 169.5   6-13-2000   91.02
173              6-6-1988    112.01
174              10-16-2000  30.01
175              4-26-1989   T.S.O. I
176              6-14-1989   75.01-
                             75.12
177-1/2          2-26-1986   52.114
                             152.001-
                             152.005,
                             152.015-
                             152.017,
                             152.030-
                             152.036,
                             152.045,
                             152.047-
151              1-10-1996   152.052,
                             152.085-
                             152.090,
                             152.100-
                             152.104,
                             152.115-
                             152.119,
                             152.130-
                             152.135,
                             152.999
-                6-12-1996   152.005
-                10-8-1997   152.031
                             152.033,
-                7-8-1998    152.035,
                             152.048,
                             152.052
1, Second Series 1-14-2003   T.S.O. IV
2, Second Series 5-13-2003   Adopting Ordinance
3, Second Series 7-8-2003    152.032
4, Second Series 7-8-2003    150.01
                             32.04,
                             32.09,
5, Second Series 12-9-2003   32.14,
                             32.15,
                             90.01,
                             92.18
                             152.005,
                             152.033,
6, Second Series 12-9-2003   152.036,
                             152.048,
                             152.050 
1, 2004 Series   3-9-2004    53.01-
                             53.06
2, 2004 Series   5-11-2004   150.16
4, 2004 Series   7-13-2004   152.032
2, 2005 Series   5-10-2005   152.031
3, 2005 Series   6-14-2005   52.086
5, 2005 Series   7-12-2005   Ch. 95
5A, 2005 Series  7-12-2005   152.050
6, 2005 Series   12-13-2005  113.094
1, 2007 Series   5-8-2007    96.01-
                             96.10
2, 2007 Series   7-10-2007   152.032
3, 2007 Series   7-10-2007   152.088
4, 2007 Series   7-10-2007   152.132
5, 2007 Series   7-10-2007   152.133
6, 2007 Series   7-10-2007   152.135
9, 2007 Series   8-14-2007   150.01
1, 2009 Series   4-14-2009   152.031
34, 2009 Series  6-9-2009    32.30-
                             32.37
72               11-10-2009  72.01-
                             72.05
34               1-12-2010   30.03,
                             30.04
1, 2010 Series   12-14-2010  51.26
2, 2010 Series   12-14-2010  51.46
3, 2010 Series   12-14-2010  51.47
4, 2010 Series   12-14-2010  51.48
1, 2011 Series   7-12-2011   113.006
2, 2011 Series   8-9-2011    T.S.O. IV
3, 2011 Series   10-11-2011  T.S.O. IV
4, 2011 Series   11-8-2011   152.046
5, 2011 Series   11-8-2011   152.005
6, 2011 Series   11-8-2011   31.36
7, 2011 Series   12-13-2011  T.S.O. IV
1, 2012 Series   3-13-2012   152.005
2, 2012 Series   3-13-2012   152.086
3, 2012 Series   3-13-2012   152.086
4, 2012 Series   3-13-2012   152.086
5, 2012 Series   9-11-2012   51.51
6, 2012 Series   9-11-2012   51.52
7, 2012 Series   10-9-2012   72.03
8, 2012 Series   10-9-2012   72.06
154              8-13-2013   34.01-
                             34.08
154              6-9-2015    34.04
51.11            12-13-2016  51.65-
                             51.72
- -              3-13-2018   T.S.O. III
--               --          152.005,
                             152.032
--               --          152.086
155-2019         - -2019     154.01–
                             154.08
--               6- -2019    92.15–
                             92.26
                             10.01–
--               6- -2019    10.19,
                             10.98,
                             10.99
                             72.99,
72               5-12-2020   73.99,
                             75.99
--               5-12-2020   70.99
92.15            5-12-2020   92.15
                             94.04,
94               5-12-2020   94.18,
                             94.19
--               7-14-2020   152.031
                             152.033,
--               --          152.130,
                             152.131
--               11-11-2021  152.036,
                             152.052
2021-150.02      11-11-2021  150.02
21-92            11-11-2021  92.35–
                             92.38
                             51.26,
                             51.28,
                             51.45,
--               12-28-2021  51.51,
                             51.52,
                             52.114,
                             53.03
2, Second Series 1-10-2023   T.S.O. II
2, Second Series 6-13-2023   152.005
--               12-12-2023  73.01–
                             73.03
                             77.01–
2, Second Series 1-9-2024    77.04,
                             77.99
2, Second Series 1-9-2024    92.02,
                             92.03
2, Second Series 1-9-2024    152.032
2, Second Series 1-9-2024    152.033
2, Second Series 12-30-2024  116.01–
                             116.04
94.20            2-11-2025   94.20
                            
 
 
