WRIGHT COUNTY, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-11 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 24-8, passed 12-18-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Wright County Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the county shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of Wright
County, Minnesota.
      CITY. An area within the corporate boundaries of the county, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY, when used in this code, may also be used to refer
to a city council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Wright County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof; and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. An area within the corporate boundaries of the county, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term TOWN, when used in this code, may also be used to refer
to a town council and its authorized representatives.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied,
omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest intention, and the
provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct words were
contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall be made or
permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the County Board of Commissioners shall desire to amend any
existing chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be
specifically repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired
amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the
County Clerk for public inspection.
   (B)   The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the County Board of Commissioners that, when
adopting this code of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal
rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code
are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence
at the time this code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the County Board of Commissioners that, when
adopting this code of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as
if they had been in existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there
is clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the County Sheriff’s Department, or any
Deputy Sheriff, shall have the authority to enforce any provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the County Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or the County Board of Commissioners
shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified.
All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest
or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The County Clerk and any county official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the County
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the county shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance
to the property by the County Clerk or any other authorized county officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or county service to the property. Mailed notice shall be
given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the
property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the County Clerk to object to the termination
before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk’s decision to the County Board
of Commissioners at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the county to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20 of this chapter, the County Board of Commissioners is authorized to
create by resolution, adopted by a majority of the members of the Board of
Commissioners, supplemental administrative penalties.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the county with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the County Board of Commissioners. In order to be
effective, an administrative penalty for a particular violation must be
established before the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, County Clerk or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a written
notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person who is
alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request the
payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to the
County Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the County Board of Commissioners to contest the request for
payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the Board, the Board may
determine to withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for
payment. Because the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there
shall be no appeal from the decision of the Board.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the county, through its Attorney,
may bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code.
Likewise, the county, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the
first instance, rather than requesting the payment of an administrative
penalty, even if a penalty for the particular violation has been established by
Board resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the county for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the county to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98 of this chapter, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with
any provision of this code, the Board or any county official designated by it,
may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct
or abate the violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
31.   COUNTY OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Supportive Care
   
30.01   Findings
   
30.02   Purposes
   
30.03   Conditional use
   
30.04   Request procedure
   
30.05   Home care assessment process
   
30.06   On-site inspection process
   
30.07   Consideration by Board of Commissioners
   
30.08   Periodic review
   
30.09   Removal of dwelling
   
30.10   Opt-out of M.S. § 394.307
SUPPORTIVE CARE
§ 30.01 FINDINGS.
   The County Board of Commissioners finds:
   (A)   A crisis for the care of frail, elderly and disabled individuals
exists;
   (B)   For many individuals, there are no economically reasonable means of
addressing their health care problems;
   (C)   The temporary placement of mobile homes, as defined by the County
Zoning Ordinance, within a reasonable proximity to other family members, will
permit some individuals home health care in lieu of institutionalization;
   (D)   Without supportive home health care, some individuals are at risk of
institutionalization;
   (E)   The temporary nature of such auxiliary housing will have minimal
impact upon the public health, safety, order, convenience and general welfare
of the county as it relates to the arrangement of buildings on lots and density
of population; and
   (F)   The County Board of Commissioners, as opposed to the County Health and
Human Services Board, is uniquely situated so as to more appropriately deal
with this unique aspect of the continuum of health care and support for the
elderly in the county.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 16-4, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 30.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Provide adequate health care and maintenance to frail, elderly or
disabled persons while maintaining the family unit; and
   (B)   Provide adequate health care and maintenance to frail, elderly or
disabled persons at minimal cost to the individual and society.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998)
§ 30.03 CONDITIONAL USE.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law to the contrary, the County
Board of Commissioners may authorize the temporary placement of mobile home, as
defined by the County Zoning Ordinance, upon any parcel within the
unincorporated areas of the county, except in the R-1 Zone, for the use and
habitation of persons found to meet the eligibility factors set forth by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998)
§ 30.04 REQUEST PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Initial requests from a community member for placement of a mobile
home for supportive care shall be directed to Health and Human Services. Health
and Human Services shall initiate an assessment of need. Following an
assessment indicating a need by Health and Human Services, notice of the need
for onsite property inspection shall be made to the County Office of Planning
and Zoning for the purpose of an on-site inspection of the property.
   (B)   The request may include a release allowing for disclosure of necessary
medical information signed by the individual(s) requesting assistance or the
responsible party.
   (C)   A fee shall be paid at the time the request is made based upon the
Health and Human Services sliding fee scale and standard assessment fee for the
cost of the assessment.
   (D)   The County Office of Planning and Zoning shall cause a notice of the
intended placement to be sent by regular mail to all persons residing within
500 feet of the proposed structure and to the affected township.
   (E)   Any persons receiving notice may, within ten days of receiving said
notice:
      (1)   Submit written comment to the County Board of Commissioners through
County Administration for its consideration; and
      (2)   Request a public hearing before the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 16-4, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 30.05 HOME CARE ASSESSMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Health and Human Services shall initiate the assessment process within
21 working days from the time of receipt of the request
   (B)   The individual requesting assistance and affected family members will
be expected to be present and participate in the home care assessment.
   (C)   Public Health will conduct an assessment to determine an individual’s
need for a supportive care environment based on the individual’s needs.
   (D)   Following the assessment, Health and Human Servicesshall explain to
individual(s) requesting assistance and to the affected family members
resources available in the community for appropriate supportive care.
   (E)   Health and Human Services shall notify the applicant, County
Administration, and the County Office of Planning and Zoning in writing of its
recommendation following the assessment.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 16-4, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 30.06 ON-SITE INSPECTION PROCESS.
   (A)   The County Office of Planning and Zoning shall conduct an on-site
inspection and submit its findings to the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The proposed structure and its placement shall meet the following
minimal requirements:
      (1)   Compliance with the Building Code or manufactured home construction
and safety standards promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development;
      (2)   Approved septic system or holding tank; and
      (3)   Compliance with road and property line set backs unless a variance
is obtained.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 16-4, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 30.07 CONSIDERATION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   In the event that a public hearing is requested by any of the persons
who receive notice pursuant to §
30.04(D) of this chapter, notice of such hearing shall be mailed to said
persons requesting a hearing at least five days in advance of the hearing.
   (B)   Health and Human Services shall submit a summary of the assessment
results and the recommendation to the County Board of Commissioners and the
County Office of Planning and Zoning.
   (C)   The County Office of Planning and Zoning shall submit a report to the
County Board of Commissioners regarding compliance with the requirements set
out in §
30.06(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   The County Board of Commissioners shall grant approval allowing the
temporary placement of a structure under this subchapter if:
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners finds that there is a need and that
placement of a temporary structure is a viable alternative to
institutionalization of a frail, elderly or disabled person;
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners finds that the proposed structure and
its placement meet the requirements set out in §
30.06(B) of this chapter; and
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners finds that the placement of a temporary
structure will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in
the immediate vicinity, nor will it substantially diminish and impair property
values within the immediate vicinity.
   (E)   In issuing a permit under this subchapter, the Board of Commissioners
may make the permit subject to such other conditions as the Board of
Commissioners may deem appropriate.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 16-4, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 30.08 PERIODIC REVIEW.
   (A)   Health and Human Services shall conduct an annual reassessment, or
conduct an assessment based on a change in the permit holder’s circumstance
when noticed by the permit holder.
   (B)   The permit holder shall pay an annual fee for this assessment, based
upon Health and Human Services’ sliding fee scale.
   (C)   Health and Human Services shall notify the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Office of Planning and Zoning upon a finding that
the placement of the temporary structure is no longer necessary or appropriate.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 16-4, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 30.09 REMOVAL OF DWELLING.
   (A)   Any permit granted pursuant to this subchapter shall become null and
void upon a finding by the Board of Commissioners that:
      (1)   The need for which the permit was granted no longer exists;
      (2)   The need of the individual(s) requiring care is not being
adequately met by the placement; or
      (3)   The permit holder has failed to comply with the conditions set
forth within the permit.
   (B)   The structure shall be removed from the property by the permit holder
within 60 days of termination of the permit.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1998)
§ 30.10 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 394.307.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 394.307, Subd. 9, the county opts-
out of the requirements of M.S. § 394.307, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 16-5, passed 8-16-2016)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Special deputies to issue citation in lieu of arrest
§ 31.01 SPECIAL DEPUTIES TO ISSUE CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST.
   An ordinance authorizing the Special Deputies of the Office of the Wright
County Sheriff to enforce all applicable state and local statutory and
regulatory provisions governing zoning regulations, and parks, trails, water,
boat, vehicle or traffic safety through the issuance of citations or other
means permitted by state law.
   The County Board of Wright County ordains that special deputies duly
appointed and sworn by the Wright County Sheriff are hereby granted the
authority to enforce, through the issuance of citations and such other means as
permitted by state law, the provisions of any state or local statutory or
regulatory provision governing zoning regulations and parks, trails, water,
boat, vehicle or traffic safety.
(Ord 18-1, passed 3-13-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   HIGHWAYS
      
51.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: HIGHWAYS
Section
   
50.01   Trunk Highway 55; official map
§ 50.01 TRUNK HIGHWAY 55; OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Land that will be needed for future expansion of Trunk Highway 55
in the county may be diverted to non-public uses which could have been located
on other lands without hardship or inconvenience to the owners.
      (2)   Identification, on an official map, of land needed for that future
expansion permits both the public and private property owners to adjust their
building plans equitably and conveniently before investments are made which
will make such adjustments difficult to accomplish.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this section and the corresponding
official map shall apply only to those areas outside the incorporated limits of
municipalities.
   (C)   Official map. The official map attached as “Appendix A” to the
ordinance codified herein is hereby adopted and may be amended according to the
terms of the County Official Map Ordinance, adopted 2-27-2007. The official map
is adopted by reference and made a part hereof as if appearing in total and is
recorded in the Office of the Wright County Recorder.
   (D)   Effect. All lands covered by this chapter are subject to the terms and
provisions of the County Official Map Ordinance, adopted 2-27-2007.
(Ord. 09-01, passed 4-7-2009)
CHAPTER 51: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Findings, purpose and intent
   
51.02   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Administration
   
51.05   Utility Coordination Committee
   
51.06   Effective date
Registration and Permits
   
51.20   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
51.21   Registration information
   
51.22   Reporting obligations
   
51.23   Permit requirement
   
51.24   Permit applications
   
51.25   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
51.26   Permit fees
   
51.27   Denial of permit
   
51.28   Work done without a permit
   
51.29   Supplementary notification
   
51.30   Revocation of permits
Regulations; Administration
   
51.45   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
51.46   Joint installations
   
51.47   Supplementary applications
   
51.48   Other obligations
   
51.49   Installation requirements
   
51.50   Inspection
   
51.51   Mapping data
   
51.52   Location and relocation of facilities
   
51.53   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
51.54   Damage to other facilities
   
51.55   Right-of-way vacation
   
51.56   Indemnification and liability
   
51.57   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
51.58   Appeals
   
51.59   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Restoration Plates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its roads and streets and the appropriate use of the
rights-of-way, the county strives to keep its right-of-way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   (1)   Accordingly, the county hereby enacts this new ordinance
relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes
regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment
currently within its right-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal
agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the right-of-
way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter
provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons using
the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Regulation of driveways and accesses to county roads is pursuant to
the County Highway Department access policy, and is not dealt with in this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session
Laws, Ch. 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81 and 238.086 (the “Act”), as they may be amended from time to
time, and the other laws governing applicable rights of the county and users of
the right-of-way. This chapter shall also be interpreted consistently with
Minn. Rules parts 7819.0050 through 7819.9950 where possible. To the extent any
provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota
Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable
statutory and case law is intended.
      (2)   This chapter shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and
police powers of the county to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the county under state and
federal statutory, administrative and common law, the county hereby elects
pursuant M.S. § 237.163, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to
manage right-of-way under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   MANAGE THE RIGHT-OF-WAY means the authority of the county to do any or
all of the following:
      (1)   Require registration;
      (2)   Require construction performance bonds and insurance coverage;
      (3)   Establish installation and construction standards;
      (4)   Establish and define location and relocation requirements for
equipment and facilities;
      (5)   Establish coordination and timing requirements;
      (6)   Require right-of-way users to submit henceforth required by the
county project data reasonably necessary to allow the county to develop a
right-of-way mapping system including GIS system information;
      (7)   Require right-of-way users to submit, upon request of the county,
existing data on the location of user’s facilities occupying the public right-
of-way within the county. The data may be submitted in the form maintained by
the user in a reasonable time after receipt of the request based on the amount
of data requested;
      (8)   Establish right-of-way permitting requirements for excavation and
obstruction;
      (9)   Establish removal requirements for abandoned equipment or
facilities, if required in conjunction with other right-of-way repair,
excavation or construction; and/or
      (10)   Impose reasonable penalties for unreasonable delays in
construction.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   (B)   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to install any utility or
to excavate or obstruct a right-of-way.
   (C)   COMMISSION. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   (D)   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the
public right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between
existing underground facilities does not allow for construction of new
underground facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing
lateral facilities in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   (E)   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in form acceptable to the county;
      (5)   Self-insurance in form acceptable to the county; and
      (6)   Blanket bond for projects within the county or construction bond
for a specified time and in a form acceptable to the county.
   (F)   COUNTY. The County of Wright, Minnesota. For purposes of §
51.56 of this chapter, COUNTY means its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees and agents.
   (G)   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused
by excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
did not occur.
   (H)   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100 means the cost
to achieve a level of restoration as determined by the county at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950, and included in the
appendix to this chapter.
   (I)   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of
permitting by the county to recover costs associated with the decrease in the
useful life of the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the
degradation costs.
   (J)   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays
in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching or restoration as established
by permit.
   (K)   DEPARTMENT. The Wright County Highway Department.
   (L)   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the County Engineer to
carry out inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   DIRECTOR. The County Engineer or her or his designee.
   (N)   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   (O)   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   (P)   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a public right-of-way.
   (Q)   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way
required to provide utility service.
   (R)   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the county for
construction within the next five years.
   (S)   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   (T)   HOLE. An excavation in the right-of-way.
   (U)   JOINT INSTALLATION. Two or more registrants that install facilities in
the same trench, conduit and the like or on the same obstruction in the right-
of-way at the same time and same place.
    (V)   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such
person or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept legal notice or service
and to accept communications and to make decisions for that registrant
regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   (W)   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the county incurs in managing its
public rights-of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated
with registering applicants; issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way
permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting or moving user equipment and facilities
during public right-of-way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way
restoration; restoring work inadequately performed after providing notice and
the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking right-of-way permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, the fees and cost of litigation relating
to the interpretation of Minnesota Session Laws 1997, Ch. 123, M.S. §§ 237.162
or 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time, or any ordinance enacted
under those sections, or the county fees and costs related to appeals taken
pursuant to §
51.58 of this chapter.
   (X)   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a public right-of-way so as
to hinder free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   (Y)   PATCH or PATCHING.
      (1)   A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature. A
PATCH consists of:
         (a)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
         (b)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (2)   A PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is
included in a project programmed by the county, or as approved by the Director.
   (Z)   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public
right-of-way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous,
concrete, aggregate or gravel.
   (AA)   PERMIT. The meaning given “right-of-way permit” in M.S. § 237.162, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (BB)   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to install a utility or to
excavate or obstruct a right-of-way has been granted by the county under this
chapter.
   (CC)   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of the
state, however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or
foreign, whether for profit or non-profit and whether natural, corporate or
political.
   (DD)   POTHOLING. A term used for the method of exposing an existing
underground facility, by the means of hand digging, for the purpose of
determining the facilities exact location.
   (EE)   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the
conditions of this chapter.
   (FF)   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been
notified in writing that they have been put on probation.
   (GG)   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the county
has an interest, including other dedicated rights of way for travel purposes
and utility easements of the county. A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service. The lands described by an easement,
deed, dedication, title, law or occupation of a road, highway, street, cartway,
bicycle lane or sidewalk are included as right-of-way.
   (HH)   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   (II)   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the county by a
permittee to achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of
the state’s Public Utilities Commission rules.
   (JJ)   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated public
right-of-way and surrounding area including pavement foundation is returned to
the same condition (and life expectancy) that existed before excavation.
   (KK)   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. A permit issued for installation of utilities,
excavation or obstruction of the right-of-way as required by this chapter.
   (LL)   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public right-of-way; or
      (3)   Hazardous liquid or natural gas pipeline facilities.
   (MM)   RURAL ROADWAY. Any roadway not meeting the definition of an urban
section.
   (NN)   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications system as defined in M.S. Ch.
238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water, sewer, steam, cooling or heating services.
   (OO)   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or
obstruct more of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that
had already been issued.
   (PP)   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHTS-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling
a facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Ch. 238,
as it may be amended from time to time, and telecommunication activities
related to providing natural gas or electric energy services whether provided
by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be amended from
time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under
M.S. Ch. 453 and 453A, as they may be amended from time to time, or a
cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS.
   (QQ)   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of existing pavement only to the edges of the excavation.
It is temporary in nature, except when the replacement is of pavement included
in the county’s two-year project plan, in which case it is considered full
restoration.
   (RR)   TRENCH. An excavation in the right-of-way.
   (SS)   UNUSABLE OR UNUSED EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES. Equipment and facilities
in the right-of-way which have remained unused for one year or for facilities
that are not registered or located by Gopher One Call; or for which the
registrant is unable to provide proof that it has either a plan to begin using
it within the next 12 months or a potential purchaser or user of the equipment
or facilities.
   (TT)   URBAN SECTION. Any roadway that has curbing.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal county official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.05 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE
   (A)   The county may create an advisory utility coordination committee.
Participation on the committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the county in obtaining information and by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The Director may determine the
size of such committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants
that have expressed a desire to assist the county.
   (B)   The County Board shall make any appointments to such a committee by
resolution.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in full force and effect on 4-5-2006.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
REGISTRATION AND PERMITS
§ 51.20 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies, uses or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in the right-of-way,
including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by lease,
sublease or assignment, must register with the county. Registration will
consist of agreeing to abide by this chapter, providing application information
and paying a registration fee. Registration fees shall be set by resolution of
the County Board and may be amended by the Board at a public meeting.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the
county.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the rights of
persons to plant or maintain boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the
right-of-way between their property and the street curb, in an urban section of
roadway. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard plantings or gardens shall
not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and shall not be required to
obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements for planting or
maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this chapter. However,
plantings must not violate applicable clear zone requirements, nor obstruct
visibility on the roadway, and the county may remove such plantings, if
necessary for maintenance, safety or construction purposes, with no
compensation due the property owner. No plantings of any kind shall be allowed
in the right-of-way on rural roadways.
      (2)   Private underground sprinkler and irrigation systems shall be
allowed in the right-of-way by permit only, however owner and installers shall
be exempt from registration. No compensation shall be made to owner if any
sprinkler or irrigation system is required to be removed or if it is damaged by
any county or municipal activity or by any permitted right-of-way activity.
      (3)   Persons installing turn and or bypass lanes shall be exempt from
registration, however, an access permit is required.
      (4)   Resident-owned sewer and water service lines to a city main and
resident owned drain tile lines shall not be required to register, unless
requested by the county, but shall be required to obtain permits for excavation
and obstruction.
      (5)   Nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the provisions
of the M.S. Ch. 216D, the Gopher State One Call Law, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the Director at the
time of registration shall include, and be on the form provided by the county,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities in the right-of-way by the
registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees, including, but not
limited to, protection against liability arising from completed operations,
damage of underground facilities and collapse of property.
         (c)   Naming the county as an additional insured as to whom the
coverage required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverage;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Director in amounts sufficient to protect the county and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The county may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. Ch. 302A, as it may be amended from time to time, as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the state’s Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the Director information as
to changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.22 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant that provides utility service shall, at the time of
registration and by December 31 of each year, file a construction and major
maintenance plan for underground facilities with the Director. Such plan shall
be submitted using a format designated by the Director and shall contain the
information determined by the Director to be necessary to facilitate the
coordination and reduction in the frequency of excavations and obstructions of
rights-of-way. The county shall maintain in the file a copy of the county’s
construction plan for construction projects. The utility facility plans shall
be kept up-to-date by the registrant. The plans shall be on file and available
for public inspection.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”);
         (b)   How the registrant will accommodate the county plan; and
         (c)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (3)   It is the registrant’s responsibility to keep informed on available
plans.
      (4)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects, but does not include individual service line
hookups and minor maintenance unless they are part of an area wide program.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Director will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to
include a project in a plan submitted to the county if the registrant has used
commercially reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.23 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct, or excavate any right-of-way without first registering and having
obtained the appropriate right-of-way permit from the county to do so.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person:
      (1)   Makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit
before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule part 7819.1000, subd. 3,
notwithstanding division (B) above, the county shall establish and impose a
delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by County Board resolution. The county may also require that the permittee
reimburse the county for any damages or additional costs charged by the
county’s construction contractor as a result of the delay.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the county.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.24 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the Director. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with the requirements of, the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the county pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application on the form provided by
the county, including all required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the
location and area of the proposed project and the location of all known
existing and proposed facilities;
   (C)   Payment of money due the county for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the county
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the right-of-way or
any emergency actions taken by the county; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the county by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation or obstruction
permit to install additional facilities and the county deems the existing
construction performance bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.25 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the county shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or, when necessary, to protect the
right-of-way and its current and future use.
   (C)   Installation requirements. Basic installation requirements shall
include, but not be limited to, those installation requirements found in the
county’s highway utility installation policy, the terms of which are
incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.26 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Right-of-way permit fee. The county shall establish a right-of-way
permit fee schedule specifying fees that are adequate to recover the associated
costs that include, but are not limited to, the following. Permit fees shall be
established by resolution of the County Board and may be amended at any public
meeting.
      (1)   County management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable;
      (3)   Mapping costs; and
      (4)   Obstruction costs.
   (B)   Payment of permit fees. No right-of-way permit shall be issued without
payment of any and all applicable permit fees unless the county allows
applicants to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (C)   Non-refundable.
      (1)   Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the Director has
revoked for a breach as stated in § 15465.30 of this chapter are not
refundable.
      (2)   Permit fees paid for work that is subsequently cancelled are not
refundable.
   (D)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from, and in addition to, the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.27 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The county may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the county determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current and future use. The county may deny a
permit if the permittee has failed to comply with previous permit conditions.
The county may withhold issuance of a permit until conditions of previous
permit are complied with.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.28 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Within two business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant
shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and
fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance
with this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the county becomes aware of an emergency regarding a
registrant’s facilities, the county will attempt to contact the local
representative of each registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency.
      (3)   In any event, the county may take whatever action it deems
necessary to correct the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the
registrant whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay four times the normal fee
for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this chapter, and
deposit with the county the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-
of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.29 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the county
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.30 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The county reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit including a threat to
the safety of workers, or the right-of-way user or the utility users. A
substantial breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the county or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained, or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control, or failure to relocate existing
facilities as specified in §
51.52 of this chapter;
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
51.50 of this chapter;
      (6)   Failure of the utility to pay any required costs, fees or charges
billed by the county; or
      (7)   Failure to provide traffic control that conforms to the provisions
of the Minnesota Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, including the
Temporary Traffic-Control Zones Field Manual.
   (B)   Written notice of breach.
      (1)   If the county determines that the permittee has committed a
substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation or any condition of the permit the county shall make a written
demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation.
      (2)   The demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit.
      (3)   A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the county, at
its discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to
mitigate and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the county with a plan,
acceptable to the county, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the county, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, the permittee’s failure
to so contact the county, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically revoke the permit and may include placing the permittee on
probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the county may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly
outside of the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, the permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked
and permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of county costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the county for the county’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
   (G)   Revoked permit. If the county revokes a utility’s permit for breach of
this chapter, the utility will not be allowed to install any utility or to
obstruct or excavate within the county right-of-way until the breach situation
is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director and the permit is reissued.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
REGULATIONS; ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.45 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of extraordinary circumstances beyond the
control of the permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
51.47 of this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary surfacing, patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch
its own work.
      (1)   County restoration. If the county restores any part of the right-
of-way, the permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing.
If, the county restores only the surface of the right-of-way and during the 24
months following such restoration, the pavement settles, the permittee shall
pay to the county, within 30 days of billing, all costs related to restoring
the right-of-way or associated with having to correct the defective work, which
may include removal and replacement of any or all work done by the permittee.
These costs shall include administrative, overhead mobilization, material,
labor and equipment.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall, at the time of application for a permit, post a construction
performance bond in an amount determined by the Director to be sufficient to
cover the cost of restoration. If, within 24 months after completion of the
restoration of the right-of-way, the Director determines that the right-of-way
has been properly restored, the surety on the construction performance bond
shall be released. The County Board shall establish, by resolution, a schedule
of construction performance bond amounts for use under this chapter.
      (3)   Degradation fee and patching in lieu of restoration to PUC
standards. In lieu of right-of-way restoration, a right-of-way user may elect
to pay a degradation fee at the county’s discretion. However, the right-of-way
user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not
include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform temporary surfacing, patching
and restoration including backfill, compaction and landscaping according to the
standards and with the materials specified by the Director. The Director shall
have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration, and
may do so in written procedures of general application or on a case-by-case
basis. The Director in exercising this authority shall comply with PUC
standards for right-of-way restoration (see PUC Rules 7819.990 to 7819.9950)
and require conformance to MN/DOT standard specifications and local government
specifications and drawing and shall further be guided by the following
considerations:
      (1)   The number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the right-of-way;
      (2)   The traffic volume carried by the right-of-way; the character of
the neighborhood surrounding the right-of-way;
      (3)   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way; the remaining
life-expectancy of the right-of-way affected by the excavation;
      (4)   Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the
permittee is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise result from the
excavation, disturbance or damage to the right-of-way; and
      (5)   The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise
take place.
   (D)   Guarantees.
      (1)   The permittee guarantees its work and shall maintain it for 24
months following its completion. During this 24-month period, it shall, upon
notification from the Director, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the Director. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under §
51.48 of this chapter.
      (2)   The permittee shall correct defects in patching, or restoration
performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee, upon notification from the
county, shall correct all restoration work to the extent necessary, using the
method required by the county. Said work shall be completed within five
calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the county, not including days
during which work cannot be done because of circumstances constituting force
majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
51.48 of this chapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director, at his or her option, may do such work. In that event the
permittee shall pay to the county, within 30 days of billing, the cost of
restoring the right-of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the county
may exercise its rights under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.46 JOINT INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Joint installation. Registrants may jointly install facilities for
excavation or obstruction of the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   With county construction projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled
utility installation or obstruction or excavation coordinated with a county
construction project by the Director, whether or not it is a joint installation
by two or more registrants or a single installation, are not required to pay
the permit fee, however, a permit is still required.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.47 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for an extension of time and receive the approval of the county, in writing,
before proceeding with further work. This supplementary application must be
done before the permit end date. Permit applications for non-emergency work
shall be submitted a minimum of three weeks prior to the planned start of work.
Notwithstanding, if a person is in good standing with the county, and a
situation arises that non-emergency work needs to be done sooner than the
person can make proper application, the county may grant verbal approval to
begin work. In such case, the required permit application shall be submitted
within two business days of the verbal approval.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.48 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. The applicant must notify and obtain a
permit from any township or city through which it passes if said township or
city so requires. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not relieve permittee of
its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses, and authority and to
pay all fees required by the county or other applicable rule, law or
regulation. The permittee shall comply with other local codes and with road
load restrictions. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of local,
state and federal laws, including M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (“Gopher One
Call Excavation Notice System”), as they may be amended from time to time. A
permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
county, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work. No open cutting
of the bituminous roadway shall be allowed without prior approval from the
county. If such approval is granted, it shall not occur between November 15 and
April 1 of any given year.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way.
      (1)   A permittee shall not so obstruct a right-of-way that the natural
free and clear passage of water through the gutters, culverts, ditches tiles or
other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those doing work
in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit area, unless
parked in conformance with county or applicable township or city parking
regulations. The loading or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the
defined permit area unless specifically authorized by the permit.
      (2)   Traffic control shall conform to the Minnesota Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices, including the Temporary Traffic-Control Zones Field
Manual and any directions of the County Engineer.
   (D)   Verify location of facility.
      (1)   At the written request of the county, a person shall determine the
exact location of their facility, both vertically and horizontally, by means of
“potholing” or some other acceptable method, to expose the facility. Reasons to
verify shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   To verify that the facility was installed at the proper depth
and horizontal location per the permit; and
         (b)   To verify actual depth and location for:
            1.   A present or future county use of the right-of-way;
            2.   A public improvement undertaken by the county or by a city or
town under a cooperative agreement with the county;
            3.   A public improvement undertaken by a private landowner, as
authorized or required by the county;
            4.   When the public health, safety and welfare require it; or
            5.   When necessary to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way.
      (2)   All costs to expose the facility shall be done at the permittee’s
expense or the county may upon written notice to the permittee, expose the
facility, at the permittee’s expense.
      (3)   Verification of facilities, both vertical and horizontal, shall be
completed within seven calendar days of written notification.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.49 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000, the restoration plates included in the appendix
to this chapter, the County Highway Utility Installation Policy, and shall
conform to MN/DOT standard specifications and other applicable local
requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.50 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
the county and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of county.
      (1)   At the time of inspection the Director may order the immediate
cessation and correction of any work which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety or well being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee to correct any
work which does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, rules, laws, conditions or codes. The order shall state that failure
to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten
days after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the
Director that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been
presented within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant
to §
51.30 of this chapter.
      (3)   The cost of any action required by the county shall be paid by the
permittee.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.51 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required.
      (1)   Each registrant and permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the county in accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and
7819.4100.
      (2)   Therefore, in managing the use of its public rights-of-way, the
county may establish, develop, and implement a right-of-way mapping system as
follows. The purpose of a mapping system is to:
         (a)   Allow flexibility in its use by the county as an effective
management tool;
         (b)   Enhance public safety and user facility safety;
         (c)   Provide for long-term cost savings;
         (d)   Improve public right-of-way design quality; and
         (e)   Allow for better information collection and cooperative usage
among local government units, telecommunications companies and other users of
the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Application required. When the county requires a permit for an
excavation or an obstruction of its public right-of-way, a person wishing to
undertake a project within the public right-of-way shall submit a right-of-way
permit application, which may require the filing of mapping information
pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   Information. The county may require as part of its permit application
the filing of all the following information:
      (1)   Location and approximate depth of applicant’s mains, cables,
conduits, switches and related equipment and facilities, with the location
based on:
         (a)   Offsets from property lines, distances from the centerline of
the public right-of-way and curb lines as determined by the local government
unit;
         (b)   Coordinates derived from the coordinate system being used by the
local government unit; or
         (c)   Any other system agreed upon by the right-of-way user and local
government unit.
      (2)   The type and size of the utility facility;
      (3)   A description showing above ground appurtenances;
      (4)   A legend explaining symbols, characters, abbreviations, scale and
other data shown on the map; and
      (5)   Any facilities to be abandoned, if applicable, in conformance with
M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Changes and corrections. The application must provide that the
applicant agrees to submit “as built” drawings, reflecting any changes and
variations from the information provided under divisions (C)(1) through (C)(5)
above.
   (E)   Additional construction information. In addition, the right-of-way
user shall submit to the county at the time the project is completed a
completion certificate according to Minn. Rules part 7819.1300.
   (F)   Manner of conveying permit data. A right-of-way user is not required
to provide or convey mapping information or data in a format or manner that is
different from what is currently utilized and maintained by that user. A permit
application fee may include the cost to convert the data furnished by the
right-of-way user to a format currently in use by the county. These data
conversion costs, unlike other costs that make up permit fees, may be included
in the permit fee after the permit application process.
   (G)   Data on existing facilities. At the request of the county, a right-of-
way user shall provide existing data on its existing facilities within the
public right-of-way in the form maintained by the user at the time the request
was made, if available.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.52 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location and relocation.
      (1)   Placement, location and relocation of facilities must comply with
the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority
otherwise available to cities and counties. By submitting a request for a
permit the person recognizes they must conform to the existing ordinances and
codes of other units of government related to underground placement regardless
of how the application is written or permit granted.
      (2)   Utility poles and guy anchors, and any other equipment, shall
conform to the National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) Report 350
standards for crash-worthiness or must be located outside of applicable clear
zones. Any installation that does not conform to the state’s Department of
Transportation clear zone standards must be approved by the Director and the
facility owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the county. All above ground
structures shall be placed at or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
   (B)   Corridors. The county may assign specific corridors within the right-
of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, as a best
management practice for each type of facility that is, or, pursuant to current
technology, the county expects will someday be, located within the right-of-
way. All right-of-way or other permits issued by the county involving the
installation or replacement of facilities shall designate the proper corridor
for the facilities at issue. A typical cross section of the location for
utilities may be on file at the Director’s office. This section is not intended
to establish “high density corridors”. Any registrant who has facilities in the
right-of-way in a position at variance with the corridors established by the
county shall, no later than at the time of the next reconstruction or
excavation of the area where the facilities are located, move the facilities to
the assigned position within the right-of-way, unless this requirement is
waived by the county for good cause shown, upon consideration of such factors
as the remaining economic life of the facilities, public safety, customer
service needs and hardship to the registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. Any utility that is found to have been installed after the
passage of this chapter, and without a permit, in a county right-of-way shall
be deemed to be a nuisance. The county may exercise any remedies or rights it
has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or
taking possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition and requiring payment to the county for the costs involved.
   (D)   Limitation of space.
      (1)   To protect health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect
the right-of-way and its current use, the county shall have the power to use
best management practices to prohibit or limit the placement and location of
new or additional facilities within the right-of-way.
      (2)   In making such decisions, the county shall strive to the extent
possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way,
but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the
public’s need for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-
of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing facilities in the right-of-way and future county plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
   (E)   Relocation of facilities. A registrant must, promptly and at its own
expense, with due regard for seasonal working conditions, permanently remove
and relocate its facilities in the right-of-way whenever the Director for good
cause requests such removal and relocation, and shall restore the right-of-way
consistent with PUC standards, local regulations and MN/DOT standard
specifications. The Director may make such request to prevent interference by
the company’s equipment or facilities with:
      (1)   A present or future county use of the right-of-way;
      (2)   A public improvement undertaken by the county or by a city or town
under a cooperative agreement with the county;
      (3)   A public improvement undertaken by a private landowner, as
authorized or required by the county;
      (4)   When the public health, safety and welfare require it; or
      (5)   When necessary to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way.
   (F)   Relocation notification procedure.
      (1)   The Director shall notify the utility owner at least six months in
advance of the need to relocate existing facilities so the owner can plan the
relocation. The Director shall provide a second notification to the owner one
month before the owner needs to begin the relocation. The utility owner shall
begin relocation of the facilities within one week of the second notification.
All utilities shall be relocated within one month. The Director may allow a
different schedule if it does not interfere with the county’s project. The
utility owner shall diligently work to relocate the facilities within the above
schedule.
      (2)   In the event that emergency work by the county or by a municipality
in the county right-of-way requires relocation of a utility, the notification
requirements above are waived. The county and utility shall coordinate efforts
to minimize delay.
   (G)   Delay to county project.
      (1)   The Director shall notify the utility owner if the owner’s progress
will not meet the relocation schedule. If the owner does not take action to
ensure the relocation will be completed in accordance with the above schedule
and the Director feels this delay will have an adverse impact to a county
project, then the Director may hire a competent contractor to perform the
relocation. In that event, the county may charge the utility owner all costs
incurred to relocate the facility.
      (2)   The county may charge the utility owner for all costs incurred and
requested by a contractor working for the county who is delayed because the
relocation is not completed in the scheduled time frame and for all costs
incurred by the county due to the delay.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, according to the PUC rules, a person
shall not be required to remove or relocate its facilities from any right-of-
way which has been vacated in favor of a non-governmental entity unless and
until the reasonable costs thereof are first paid to the person.
      (4)   However, this does not exempt the utility company from paying for
the value of any taking of said property by occupation without compensation.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.53 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01
through 216D.09 (“One Call Excavation Notice System”), as they may be amended
from time to time, before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each
registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall
mark the horizontal placement of all said facilities. Vertical locations shall
be marked to the degree of accuracy that they are known. Any registrant whose
facilities are in the area of work shall notify and work closely with the
excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the
best procedure for excavation to protect the safety of workers and right-of-way
users and other utility users. If the utility is not at the approved depth or
location, it shall be exposed at the permittee’s expense or by the county upon
written notice to the permittee.
   (B)   The county may, upon said notice, locate said utility at the
permittee’s expense.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.54 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the county does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the Director
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way that it or its
facilities damages. When the permittee does damage to county facilities in the
right-of-way, such as, but not limited to, culverts, road surfaces, traffic-
control devices, curbs and gutters, or tile lines, they shall correct the
damage immediately. If they do not, the county may make such repairs as
necessary and charge all of the expenses of the repair to the permittee. The
permittee shall pay for said repairs within 30 days of billing. Each registrant
shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of
another registrant caused during the county’s response to an emergency
occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.55 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the county vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3100, subd. 2, and Minn. Rules part 7819.3200 and other
applicable laws.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.56 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   By registering with the county, or by accepting a permit under this
chapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the county in
accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
   (B)   All permits are granted subject to the ownership rights the county may
have in the property involved and to the extent that state, federal local laws,
rules and regulations allow and said permit is subject to all such laws and
rules.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.57 ABANDONED OR UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the county must provide
information satisfactory to the county that the registrant’s obligations for
its facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully
assumed by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned or unusable facilities in
any right-of-way shall remove them from that right-of-way if required in
conjunction with other right-of-way repair, excavation or construction, unless
the county waives this requirement.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.58 APPEALS.
   A right-of-way user that: has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the County Board. The County Board shall act on a timely written
request on a day agreed to by both parties. A decision by the County Board
affirming the denial, revocation or fee imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.59 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s or registrant’s rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the county to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The county may assess a civil penalty for violation of this chapter.
Penalties for delay in patching or restoration may range from a minimum of $50
per day to a maximum of $500 per day. Penalties for performing work in the
right-of-way without a permit or for failure to comply with a permit shall be
based on the facts of each violation. Factors to be considered include, but are
not limited to, costs incurred by the county to correct the violation and costs
avoided by the person committing the violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or
who knowingly makes any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, the Director may request
that the County Attorney institute appropriate actions or proceedings,
including the seeking of injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate such violations. All costs incurred for such enforcement action may be
recovered by the county in a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction. These remedies may be imposed upon the permittee or other
responsible person either in addition to or separate from other enforcement
actions.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-4-2006)
APPENDIX A: RESTORATION PLATES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-980.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-982.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-984.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-986.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-988.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-990.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-992.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-994.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-996.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-998.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1000.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1002.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1004.jpg]
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   DANGEROUS DOGS
      
91.   LARGE ASSEMBLIES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   PUBLIC HEALTH; NUISANCES
      
94.   EXPLOSIVES
      
95.   ZERO PHOSPHORUS
      
96.   BUFFER REGULATIONS
      
97.   CANNABIS REGULATION
CHAPTER 90: DANGEROUS DOGS
Section
Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
90.01   Purpose and intent
   
90.02   Title
   
90.03   Jurisdiction
   
90.04   Incorporation
   
90.05   Definitions
   
90.06   Dangerous dogs; designation
   
90.07   Dangerous dogs; registration
   
90.08   Dangerous dogs; requirements
   
90.09   Potentially dangerous dogs; designation
   
90.10   Potentially dangerous dogs; registration
   
90.11   Potentially dangerous dogs; requirements
   
90.12   Confiscation
   
90.13   Destruction of dogs in certain circumstances
   
90.14   General restrictions
   
90.15   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the county to protect the public against the health and
safety risks posed by dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs. By their very
nature, dogs classified as “dangerous” or “potentially dangerous” pose a direct
threat to the people and other animals that live in the same community or may
otherwise come into contact with them. The intent of this subchapter is to
govern and control dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs located within the
county. This subchapter is intended to operate within the same framework of
M.S. §§ 347.50 through 347.565, as they may be amended from time to time, which
govern dangerous dogs. This subchapter does not regulate, govern or control
dogs not considered dangerous or potentially dangerous, or otherwise impact the
regulation and control of other animals, whether wild or domestic.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.02 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited and referenced as, the
“Wright County Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Dog Ordinance”; and, when
referred to herein, it shall be referenced to as “this subchapter”.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 90.03 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all dogs residing in all areas of the county;
except, this subchapter does not apply in any city or town which has a
dangerous dog ordinance complying with state law and which has declared itself
to be the Animal Control Authority within its jurisdiction. This subchapter
also does not apply to any dog used by law enforcement officials for police
work.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.04 INCORPORATION.
   This subchapter expressly adopts and incorporates the provisions of M.S. §§
347.50 through 347.565. When the provisions of this subchapter impose greater
restrictions than those of any other statute, ordinance, rule or regulation,
the provisions of this subchapter shall be controlling. Where the provisions of
any other statute, ordinance, rule or regulation impose greater restrictions
than this subchapter, the provision of such statute, ordinance, rule or
regulation shall be controlling.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 90.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. Wright County or any law enforcement agent
or other public official acting under its direction and control. Additionally,
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY shall mean any individual, organization, partnership
or entity operating under contract to perform animal control operations
pursuant to a written agreement authorized and approved by the County Board of
Commissioners, or any city or town located within the county which has declared
itself to be the ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   BOARD. The Wright County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   COUNTY. The County of Wright, a political subdivision of the state.
   (D)   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted death, great bodily harm,
substantial bodily harm to any person on public or private property;
      (2)   Without provocation, engaged in any attack on any person under
circumstances which indicated danger to personal safety;
      (3)   Without provocation, killed a domestic animal while off the dog
owner’s property;
      (4)   Without provocation, has bitten one or more persons on two or more
separate occasions;
      (5)   Been at any time found to be potentially dangerous, and after the
owner received notice or personal knowledge that the dog is potentially
dangerous, the dog bites, attacks or endangers the safety of a human being or
domestic animal; or
      (6)   Been or will be used, trained or encouraged to fight with another
animal; or whose owner has in custody or possession any training apparatus,
paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dog for fighting with another
animal.
   (E)   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
      (1)   Animals kept as pets, including but not limited to cats and dogs;
      (2)   Those species of animals that live under the husbandry of humans;
      (3)   Livestock within the meaning of M.S. § 35.01, subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (4)   A farm-raised deer, farm-raised game bird, or farm-raised fish; or
      (5)   An animal listed as a domestic animal by a rule adopted by the
Department of Agriculture.
   (F)   GREAT BODILY HARM. The meaning given it under M.S. § 609.02, subd. 8,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   HEARING. A proceeding conducted by a hearing officer in accordance
with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (H)   HEARING OFFICER. A licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, an animal
control authority official or any otherwise qualified impartial hearing
officer, appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (I)   KILLED or KILLS. A dog KILLED or KILLS a human being or domestic
animal if there was a direct causal connection between the act of the attacking
dog and the death of the person or other animal. For domestic animals which
were euthanized following such an attack, KILLED or KILLS shall mean the death
was the direct and inescapable consequence of the attack, extensive
veterinarian assistance would be futile and that euthanasia merely hastened the
inevitable death of the victim animal.
   (J)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, association,
organization or department possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest
in or having care, custody or control of a dog. Any person keeping or harboring
a dog for five consecutive days shall, for the purposes of this subchapter, be
deemed to be an OWNER thereof.
   (K)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, bitten a human or domestic animal on public or
private property;
      (2)   Without provocation, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than upon the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
      (3)   A known history or propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
without provocation, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of
humans or domestic animals.
   (L)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors, or in a securely enclosed
and locked pen or structure outdoors, suitable to prevent the animal from
escaping and providing the dog protection from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE
does not include a porch, patio or any part of a house, garage or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only obstacles that prevent the dog from exiting. Such enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance.
A pen or kennel, in order to qualify as a PROPER ENCLOSURE, shall meet the
following minimum specifications:
      (1)   The overall floor size shall have a minimum area of 32 square feet;
      (2)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-quarter-inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not
provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches into the ground;
      (3)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided,
constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls and shall also
have no openings in the wire greater than two inches; and
      (4)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of the
same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
   (M)   PROVOCATION. An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a
dog to attack or bite.
   (N)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. The meaning given to it under M.S. § 609.02,
subd. 7a, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.06 DANGEROUS DOGS; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Designation. The Animal Control Authority or Hearing Officer shall
designate any dog as a dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that the dog meets
any of the criteria of applicable state law or §
90.05(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   Upon a designation that a dog is dangerous, the Animal Control
Authority shall provide a written notice of dangerous dog to the owner of
record or, if none, to any owner of such dog by personally serving the owner or
a person of suitable age and discretion at the residence of such owner. Service
upon any owner shall be effective as to all owners. The notice shall state the
dates, times, places and facts of the incidents which form the basis for the
determination, and include the following:
         (a)   A description of the dog deemed to be dangerous;
         (b)   The factual basis for that determination; and
         (c)   The identity of the official who made the determination.
      (2)   The notice shall also set forth the registration requirements and
other restrictions imposed upon a dangerous dog under this subchapter or M.S.
Ch. 347, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The notice shall also advise the owner(s) of their appeal rights
and requirements as outlined in division (C).
   (C)   Appeal rights and requirements.
      (1)   The owner has 14 days to appeal the determination by requesting a
hearing before the Hearing Officer. The notice shall include a preprinted form
which the owner can use to request a hearing. The request for a hearing shall
be made directly to the Animal Control Authority and must be submitted in
writing.
      (2)   Any owner who requests such a hearing is liable to the county for
all costs and expenses related to the hearing.
      (3)   The notice shall also advise the owner(s) that if the determination
is appealed, all costs of the hearing must be paid in advance of the hearing at
the time of the submission of the hearing request. The notice shall include the
amount of the costs to be paid.
      (4)   If the owner does not request a hearing within the allotted 14
days, the designation of dangerous dog as issued in the written notice of
dangerous dog will stand, and the owner will be subject to all restrictions and
requirements as set forth in the notice by the Animal Control Authority.
   (D)   Hearing.
      (1)   If an owner, within 14 days of the date of the notice, requests a
hearing for determination as to the dangerous nature of the dog, the hearing
shall be held before a Hearing Officer within 14 days after the Animal Control
Authority is notified of the owner’s request for a hearing and full payment in
the amount indicated by the notice is received. The Hearing Officer may allow
the hearing date to be extended beyond the 14-day period for good cause.
      (2)   Pending the hearing, the dog may be seized and kept at Animal
Control unless the owner shows proof that the dog is properly licensed, if
required; has met the requirement for rabies vaccinations; keeps the dog only
in a proper enclosure unless restrained on a leash with a muzzle; and otherwise
demonstrates to the Animal Control Authority that the dog, under its present
circumstances, does not present an unreasonable risk of harm to persons or
other domestic animals.
      (3)   The records of the Animal Control Authority, any police reports
relating to an attack or bite, medical records and all reliable hearsay shall
be admissible for consideration by the Hearing Officer without further
foundation.
      (4)   The Animal Control Authority shall be represented by the County
Attorney’s office. The owner may be represented by private legal counsel of the
owner’s choosing, although the owner does not have the right to an attorney at
public expense.
      (5)   At the hearing, both the owner and the Animal Control Authority may
present the testimony of live witnesses, cross-examine witnesses and present
documentary evidence. The Animal Control Authority, and the dog’s owner, may
apply to the District Court for subpoenas for hearings.
      (6)   The burden of proof shall be upon the Animal Control Authority. The
standard of proof shall be clear and convincing evidence if the Authority seeks
to destroy the dog; in all other cases, it shall be by a preponderance of the
evidence.
      (7)   After considering all evidence pertaining to the dog, the Hearing
Officer shall make such order as he or she deems proper, including ordering the
Animal Control Authority to take the dog into custody, if the dog is not
currently in custody.
      (8)   Any person who fails or refuses to release a dog to the Animal
Control Authority or law enforcement agent upon demand, or after it has been
found by a Hearing Officer to be dangerous and ordered into custody, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (9)   The decision of the Hearing Officer is a quasi-judicial
determination that is subject to review by writ of certiorari to the state’s
Court of Appeals.
      (10)   The owner or person claiming an interest in the dog is liable for
all actual costs of care, keeping, and disposal of the dog, except to the
extent that a court or Hearing Officer finds that the seizure or impoundment
was not substantially justified by law. The costs must be paid in full, or a
mutually satisfactory arrangement for payment must be made between the county
and the person claiming an interest in the dog, before the dog is returned to
the person.
   (E)   Exemption. A dog may not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury
or damage was sustained by a person who:
      (1)   Was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort upon
the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
      (2)   Was provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or who can
be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog; or
      (3)   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime against the owner or
the owner’s property.
   (F)   Review of designation. Beginning three years after a dog is declared a
dangerous dog and annually thereafter, an owner may request in writing that the
Animal Control Authority or the Hearing Officer review the designation. The
owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed due to the
dog’s age, sterilization, environment, completion of obedience training that
includes modification of aggressive behavior or other factors. If the Animal
Control Authority or Hearing Officer finds sufficient evidence that the dog’s
behavior has changed, the Authority may rescind the dangerous dog designation.
If an owner desires review of designation by a Hearing Officer, the request and
prepayment procedures listed in division (D) above shall be followed. The
burden of proof shall be upon the dog’s owner and the standard of proof is
clear and convincing evidence.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS DOGS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Requirements. For any dog determined or declared to be dangerous by
operation of this subchapter, state statute, court order, ordinance or
regulation from another jurisdiction, or valid declaration from an Animal
Control Authority, the dog shall, at all times during the dog’s life, unless
the designation has been rescinded, be registered as a dangerous dog pursuant
to this subchapter or state law.
   (B)   Registration. No person may own or possess a dangerous dog in the
county unless the dog is registered as provided in this subchapter or
applicable state law. All dogs deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Authority
or Hearing Officer, as applicable, shall be registered as a dangerous dog with
the Animal Control Authority within 30 days after the date the owner was
notified that the dog was so deemed or following a hearing which affirms the
designation, whichever is later.
   (C)   Registration requirements. The Animal Control Authority shall issue a
certificate of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog only if the owner
presents sufficient evidence that all of the requirements of §
90.08 are met.
   (D)   Release. If a dangerous dog was impounded by the Animal Control
Authority, or upon order of a Hearing Officer, the dog shall not be released
until the owner demonstrates to the Animal Control Authority that all
applicable requirements of this subchapter, including all registration
requirements imposed by this section or applicable state law, have been
complied with. The owner shall have a maximum of 30 days to comply with all
requirements. The owner must pay the county for all costs incurred in the
seizure and boarding of the dog prior to its return.
   (E)   Fee. The owner of a dangerous dog must pay an annual fee, in addition
to any regular dog licensing fees, to obtain a certificate of registration for
a dangerous dog under this section. This annual fee will be set by the Board
following a public hearing.
   (F)   Revocation.
      (1)   Any certificate of registration for a dangerous dog may be revoked,
following hearing, if the owner fails to maintain compliance with any
registration requirement, or fails to keep or maintain the dangerous dog as
required by any provision of this subchapter or applicable state law. The
provisions of §§
90.08(K),
90.12, and
90.13 of this chapter, applicable to the seizure and disposition of dogs, shall
apply.
      (2)   The Animal Control Authority shall serve upon the owner a written
notice setting forth the alleged reasons why the dog is not being kept in
conformance with this subchapter, and shall also notify the owner of the date,
time and location of the hearing. Any hearing to revoke a certificate of
registration shall be held before a Hearing Officer within 20 days of the date
of the notice, and shall comply with all the requirements as set forth in
division (C) above. The Hearing Officer may allow the hearing date to be
extended beyond the 20-day period for good cause.
      (3)   If a dangerous dog certificate of registration is revoked following
hearing, the Hearing Officer shall order the dog disposed of immediately or, in
the alternative, permit the owner a reasonable time period, not to exceed 30
days, to obtain the dog if the owner is in compliance with all registration
requirements. The owner shall also be responsible for payment of all costs
associated with the hearing.
   (G)   Registration renewal. An owner of a dangerous dog shall renew the
registration of the dog annually until the dog is deceased, unless the
designation has been rescinded pursuant to §
90.06(F).
   (H)   Death or relocation of dangerous dog. An owner of a dangerous dog
shall notify the Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the death of the dog,
or if the dog relocates or transfers out of the county to a new location or new
jurisdiction, within 30 days of the death or relocation. An owner shall, if
requested by the Animal Control Authority, execute an affidavit, under oath and
penalty of perjury, setting forth either the circumstances of the dog’s death
and disposition; or the complete name, address and telephone number of the
person to whom the dog was transferred.
   (I)   Sale or transfer of dangerous dogs. A person who sells or otherwise
transfers ownership or control of a dangerous dog must notify any potential
purchaser or transferee, prior to the consummation of the transaction, that the
dog was previously designated as dangerous. The seller must also notify the
Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the sale and provide the Animal
Control Authority with the new owner’s name, address and telephone number.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS DOGS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. For any dog declared dangerous by operation of this
subchapter, state statute, court order, an ordinance or regulation from another
jurisdiction, or by operation of a declaration by an Animal Control Authority,
the owner, in addition to complying with all the registration requirements set
forth under §
90.07 of this chapter, shall keep and maintain the dog pursuant to all
requirements of this section, all other provisions of this subchapter and all
requirements of any applicable state statute.
   (B)   Restraint. An owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while on
the owner’s property, in a proper enclosure, as defined by §
90.05(L) of this chapter. The dog shall, at all times, be kept in such proper
enclosure unless the dog is, at any and all times the dog is outside a proper
enclosure, muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not to exceed
six feet in length and under the physical restraint of a responsible person 18
years of age or older. The muzzle, chain and leash must all be of such a
design, manufacture and maintained in a condition that will prevent the dog
from biting any person or animal, but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (C)   Microchipping. For any dog that has been determined to be dangerous,
an identification microchip must be implanted in the dog for identification as
required under M.S. § 347.515, as it may be amended from time to time. The name
of the microchip manufacturer and identification number of the microchip must
be provided to the Animal Control Authority. If the microchip is not implanted
by the owner, it must be implanted by a qualified veterinarian or clinic or
shelter staff under the direction and control of the Animal Control Authority.
In either case, all costs related to purchase and implantation of the microchip
must be borne by the dog's owner.
   (D)   Sterilization. The dog must be sterilized. If not done within 30 days,
the Animal Control Authority shall seize the dog and have it sterilized at the
owner's expense.
   (E)   Vaccination and licensing. The owner may be required to show proof of
up-to-date rabies vaccination and, if required, licensing in compliance with
local regulations.
   (F)   Tag. A dangerous dog registered under this section shall have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous and
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol, as developed by the Commissioner
of Public Safety or the Animal Control Authority, affixed to the dog's collar
at all times.
   (G)   Leased premises. A person who owns a dangerous dog and who rents
property from another where the dog will reside shall disclose to the property
owner prior to when the dog begins to reside on the property, or prior to
entering the lease agreement, and at the time of any lease renewal, that the
person owns a dangerous dog that will reside at the property.
   (H)   Warning signs. If the county issues a certificate of registration to
the owner of a dangerous dog pursuant to this subchapter, the county must
provide, for posting on the owner’s property, an adequate number of a warning
symbol to inform all persons, including children, that there is a dangerous dog
on the property. The design of the warning symbol must be uniform with any
specifications for such a sign as issued by the state’s Commissioner of Public
Safety, in accordance with M.S. § 347.51, subd. 2a, as it may be amended from
time to time. The cost of the signs shall be the responsibility of the owner
and shall be included in the registration fee.
   (I)   Property inspection. The owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the
Animal Control Authority and/or law enforcement to enter the property where a
dangerous dog is kept or located, at all hours reasonable under the
circumstances, without a warrant or other advance judicial process, to inspect
the premises so as to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter,
applicable state statutes, order from a hearing officer or directive from the
Animal Control Authority. The failure of an owner to permit such inspection is,
by itself, a ground to immediately seize the dog pursuant to §
90.12 of this chapter and revoke the dangerous dog registration pursuant to §
90.07(F) of this chapter.
   (J)   Liability insurance. The owner must provide, and annually show proof
of, liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to conduct
business in this state in the minimum amount of $500,000, payable to any person
or persons injured by the dangerous dog, insuring the owner for any personal
injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog.
   (K)   Destruction. The Animal Control Authority may require, and the Hearing
Officer must order following a hearing when requested by the Animal Control
Authority, the destruction of the dog upon finding that a dog is dangerous due
to an incident resulting in death, substantial bodily harm, or great bodily
harm or where multiple humans were bitten in the same attack, and one of the
following criteria are present:
      (1)   The owner of the dog has demonstrated an inability or unwillingness
to sufficiently control the dog in order to prevent injury to persons or other
animals; or
      (2)   The owner cannot, will not, does not or otherwise refuses to
provide proof of the liability insurance for the dog as required by division
(J) above.
   (L)   Other conditions. The Animal Control Authority or Hearing Officer may
impose any other conditions that are deemed reasonable and appropriate in order
to reduce the risk to the public and other animals.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.09 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Designation. The Animal Control Authority or Hearing Officer shall
designate any dog as a potentially dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that
the animal meets any of the criteria in §
90.05(K) of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   Upon determination that a dog is potentially dangerous, the Animal
Control Authority shall provide a written notice of potentially dangerous dog
to the owner of record, or if none, any owner of such dog by personally serving
the owner or a person of suitable age and discretion at the residence of such
owner. Service upon any owner shall be effective as to all owners. The notice
shall state the dates, times, places and facts of the incidents which form the
basis for the determination, and shall include the following:
         (a)   A description of the dog deemed to be potentially dangerous;
         (b)   The factual basis for that determination; and
         (c)   The identity of the official who made the determination.
      (2)   The notice shall also set forth the restrictions imposed upon a
potentially dangerous dog under this subchapter.
      (3)   The notice shall also advise the owner(s) of their appeal rights
and requirements as outlined in division (C) below.
   (C)   Appeal rights and requirements.
      (1)   The owner has 14 days to appeal the determination by requesting a
hearing before a Hearing Officer. The notice shall include a preprinted form
the owner may use to request the hearing. The request for a hearing shall be
made directly to the Animal Control Authority and must be submitted in writing.
      (2)   Any owner who requests such a hearing is liable to the county for
all costs and expenses related to the hearing.
      (3)   The notice shall also advise the owner that if the determination is
appealed, all costs of the hearing must be paid in advance of the hearing at
the time of the submission of the hearing request. The notice shall include the
amount of the costs to be paid.
      (4)   If the owner does not request a hearing within the allotted 14
days, the designation of potentially dangerous dog as issued in the written
notice of potentially dangerous dog will stand, and the owner will be subject
to all restrictions and requirements as set forth in the notice by the Animal
Control Authority.
   (D)   Hearing.
      (1)   If an owner requests a hearing within 14 days of the date of the
notice for determination as to the potentially dangerous nature of the dog, the
hearing shall be held before a Hearing Officer within 14 days after the Animal
Control Authority is notified of the owner’s request for a hearing and full
payment in the amount indicated by the notice is received. The Hearing Officer
may allow the hearing date to be extended beyond the 14-day period for good
cause. Any dog owner who requests such a hearing is liable to the county for
all costs and expenses related to the hearing.
      (2)   The records of the Animal Control Authority, any police reports
relating to an attack or bite, medical records and all reliable hearsay shall
be admissible for consideration by the Hearing Officer without further
foundation.
      (3)   The Animal Control Authority shall be represented by the County
Attorney's office. The owner may be represented by private legal counsel of the
owner's choosing, although the owner does not have the right to an attorney at
public expense.
      (4)   At the hearing, both the owner and the Animal Control Authority may
present the testimony of live witnesses, cross-examine witnesses and present
documentary evidence. The Animal Control Authority, and the dog's owner, may
apply to the District Court for subpoenas for hearings.
      (5)   The burden of proof shall be upon the Animal Control Authority. The
standard of proof shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
      (6)   After considering all evidence pertaining to the dog, the Hearing
Officer shall issue a written order which rejects or upholds the determination.
If the Hearing Officer upholds the determination as potentially dangerous, the
order may affirm or modify the conditions recommended by the Animal Control
Authority. If, as a result of testimony or other evidence at the hearing, there
are grounds for declaring the dog to be a dangerous dog pursuant to §
90.06 of this chapter, the Hearing Officer may change the designation and issue
the appropriate orders.
      (7)   The decision of the Hearing Officer is a quasi-judicial
determination that is subject to review by writ of certiorari to the state’s
Court of Appeals.
   (E)   Exemption. A dog may not be declared potentially dangerous if the
threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who:
      (1)   Was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort upon
the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
      (2)   Was provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or who can
be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog; or
      (3)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime against the
owner or the owner’s property.
   (F)   Removal of designation. If a period of two years has passed without
any further incidents or violations of this subchapter, the Animal Control
Authority shall remove the potentially dangerous designation.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.10 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Requirements. For any dog determined or declared to be potentially
dangerous by operation of this subchapter, state statute, court order,
ordinance, or regulation from another jurisdiction, or valid declaration from
an Animal Control Authority, the dog shall be registered as a potentially
dangerous dog pursuant to this subchapter or state law.
   (B)   Registration. No person may own or possess a potentially dangerous dog
in the county unless the dog is registered as provided in this subchapter or
applicable state law. All dogs deemed potentially dangerous by the Animal
Control Authority or Hearing Officer, as applicable, shall be registered as a
potentially dangerous dog with the Animal Control Authority within 30 days
after the date the owner was notified that the dog was so deemed or following a
hearing which affirms the designation, whichever is later.
   (C)   Registration requirements. The Animal Control Authority shall issue a
certificate of registration to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog only if
the owner presents sufficient evidence that all of the requirements of §
90.11 are met.
   (D)   Fee. The county will charge the owner of a potentially dangerous dog a
one-time registration fee to obtain a certificate of registration for a
potentially dangerous dog under this section. This one-time fee will be set by
the Board following a public hearing.
(Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.11 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Microchipping. For any dog that has been determined to be potentially
dangerous, an identification microchip must be implanted in the dog for
identification as required under M.S. § 347.515, as it may be amended from time
to time. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number of
the microchip must be provided to the Animal Control Authority. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it must be implanted by a qualified
veterinarian or clinic or shelter staff under the direction and control of the
Animal Control Authority. In either case, all costs related to purchase and
implantation of the microchip must be borne by the dog's owner.
   (B)   Other restrictions. Any dog determined to be potentially dangerous may
be subject to any or all of the following restrictions, as determined by the
Animal Control Authority or the Hearing Officer.
      (1)   Obedience class. The owner of a dog may be required to complete an
approved dog obedience class within a designated period of time, and provide
proof of completion to the Animal Control Authority.
      (2)   Restraint. The dog may be required to be kept in a proper
enclosure, or restrained by chain or leash not to exceed six feet in length,
and/or muzzled, and under the control of a responsible person 18 years of age
or older at all times it is outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure.
      (3)   Warning signs. The owner may be required to post the property where
the dog resides with warning signs, readable to children, containing a written
notice and warning that a potentially dangerous dog is present on the property.
Such signs shall conform to the requirements set forth in §
90.08(H) of this chapter.
      (4)   Vaccination and licensing. The owner may be required to show proof
of up-to-date rabies vaccination and, if required, licensing in compliance with
local regulations.
      (5)   Tag. The dog may be required to wear, at all times, a tag or marker
identifying it as a potentially dangerous dog.
      (6)   Sterilization. The dog may be required to be sterilized within 30
days of the owner receiving notice.
      (7)   Other conditions. The Animal Control Authority or Hearing Officer
may impose any other conditions that are deemed reasonable and appropriate in
order to reduce the risk to the public and other animals.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.12 CONFISCATION.
   (A)   Seizure. The Animal Control Authority shall immediately seize any
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous
or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly registered under this
subchapter or applicable state law;
      (2)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required under this subchapter;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure, as defined in §
90.05(L) of this chapter;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under the proper
physical restraint of a responsible person as required under this subchapter or
any applicable state law;
      (5)   The owner is served with written notice, by certified mail to the
owner’s last known address, that the owner is in violation of any of the
requirements of this subchapter or any applicable state statute, or is in
violation of any directive issued by the Animal Control Authority or order from
a Hearing Officer; and, within 30 days of service of such written notice, has
refused or failed to achieve satisfactory compliance;
      (6)   The Animal Control Authority has reason to believe the dog is a
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, and is kept or maintained under
conditions or circumstances creating a unacceptable risk of harm to physical
persons or other domesticated animals; or
      (7)   For any other reason authorized by law.
   (B)   Additional dogs subject to seizure.
      (1)   Any dog found to be in circumstances which to a reasonable person
indicate that the dog has been or will be used, trained or encouraged to fight
with another animal, or any animal whose owner has in custody or possession any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dog to be
fought with another animal, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
shall be immediately seized and taken to the designated Animal Control center.
      (2)   Any dog may be seized and held to determine if rabid.
      (3)   Any dog may be seized and held if suspected of being feral.
      (4)   Any dog which meets the definitions found in §
90.05(D) or (K) of this chapter may be seized and held at Animal Control
pending a determination whether the animal is dangerous or potentially
dangerous.
   (C)   Reclaiming dogs. A dog seized under this subchapter may be released to
the owner of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding fees, and
presenting proof to the Animal Control Authority that all requirements of this
subchapter and state law have or will be met. A dog not reclaimed under this
division (C) within ten days may be disposed of as provided under M.S. §
346.37, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time, and the owner is
liable to the Animal Control Authority for costs incurred in confining and
disposing of the dog.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If a person has been convicted of a misdemeanor
for violating a provision of this subchapter, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog shall be seized by the
Animal Control Authority. If the owner is convicted of the crime for which the
dog was seized, the court shall order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and the owner pay the cost of confining and destroying the dog.
If the person is not convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the
owner may reclaim the dog upon payment to the Animal Control Authority of a fee
for the care and boarding of the dog. If the dog is not reclaimed by the owner
within 30 days after the owner has been notified that the dog may be reclaimed,
the dog may be disposed of as provided under M.S. § 347.54, subd. 3, as it may
be amended from time to time. The owner is liable to the Animal Control
Authority for the costs incurred in confining, impounding and disposing of the
dog.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.13 DESTRUCTION OF DOGS IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   Suffering beyond cure. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter, any dog taken into custody may be immediately disposed of when the
dog is suffering and is beyond cure through reasonable care and treatment, upon
a proper determination by a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine. The county
shall recover from the dog’s owner all costs incurred under this section.
   (B)   Unclaimed dogs. At the expiration of the time a dog is impounded as
provided for in this subchapter, if the dog has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions hereof, it shall be the duty of the Animal
Control Authority to cause such dog to be destroyed according to the most
humane and approved methods, or otherwise disposed of.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 90.14 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Dog ownership prohibited. Except as provided in division (C) below, no
person may own a dog if the person has:
      (1)   Been convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §§
90.07 or
90.08 of this chapter;
      (2)   Been convicted of a violation under M.S. § 609.205, clause (4), as
it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Been convicted of a gross misdemeanor under M.S. § 609.226, subd.
1, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Been convicted of a violation under M.S. § 609.226, subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time; or
      (5)   Has a dog ordered destroyed under §§
90.08(K) or
90.13 of this chapter and been convicted of one or more violations of §§
90.07,
90.08 and
90.11 of this chapter or M.S. § 609.226, subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (B)   Household members. If any member of a household is prohibited from
owning a dog in division (A) above, unless specifically approved with or
without restriction by an Animal Control Authority, no person in the household
is permitted to own a dog.
   (C)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under division (A) above that prohibits a person from owning a dog,
and annually thereafter, the person may request that the Animal Control
Authority review the prohibition. The Animal Control Authority may consider
such facts as the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the
prohibition, any criminal convictions or other facts that the Animal Control
Authority deem appropriate. The Animal Control Authority may rescind the
prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The Animal Control
Authority also may establish conditions a person must meet before the
prohibition is rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully
completing dog training or dog handling courses. If the Animal Control
Authority rescinds a person’s prohibition and the person subsequently fails to
comply with any limitation imposed by the Animal Control Authority or the
person is convicted of any animal violation involving bites or dog attacks
without provocation, the Animal Control Authority may permanently prohibit the
person from owning a dog in the county.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter was in full force and effect from and after 3-1-2010.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.15 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)It is a misdemeanor to remove a microchip from a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog; to fail to renew the registration of a dangerous dog; to fail to
account for a dangerous dog’s death, transfer of ownership or removal from the
jurisdiction; to sign a false affidavit with respect to a dangerous dog’s
death, transfer of ownership or removal from the jurisdiction; or to fail to
disclose ownership of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to a property
owner from whom the person rents property.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 24-6, passed 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 91: LARGE ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Permit required
   
91.04   Exemptions
   
91.05   Permit requirements
   
91.06   Application procedures; fees
   
91.07   Input from road authorities
   
91.08   Permit revocation or suspension
   
91.09   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is determined necessary and is adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. § 375.40, as it may
be amended from time to time. Said chapter is intended to ensure that large
gatherings or assemblies of people held for musical, racing, entertainment or
other communal activities are conducted in accord with proper and acceptable
sanitary, police, fire and other health and safety considerations so as to
protect the health, safety and general welfare of the public and of the people
attending or taking part in the assembly. This chapter does not apply to
assemblies occurring entirely within the incorporated limits of any city within
the county.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ASSEMBLY. Any public gathering of 500 or more people at any location
at any single time for the purpose of musical, racing, political, promotional,
social, entertainment or other similar types of activities.
   (B)   ASSEMBLY AREA. The area within which the assembly activities are to
take place.
   (C)   CANNABINOID. Any of the chemical constituents of hemp plants or
cannabis plants that are naturally occurring, biologically active, and act on
the cannabinoid receptors of the brain. CANNABINOID includes but is not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol.
   (D)   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A cannabis product, a hemp-derived consumer
product, or a lower-potency hemp edible.
   (E)   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a
cannabis plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical
cannabis flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant
parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   (F)   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any
kind that are knowingly or intentionally used primarily in:
      (1)   Manufacturing cannabis products;
      (2)   Ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis flower or
cannabis products into the human body; and
      (3)   Testing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   (G)   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that are
growing or have not been harvested and have a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   (H)   CANNABIS PRODUCT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      (2)   CANNABIS PRODUCT includes adult-use cannabis products, including
but not limited to edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products.
CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include cannabis flower, artificially derived
cannabinoid, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp- derived consumer products, or
hemp-derived topical products.
   (I)   COUNTY. The County of Wright in the State of Minnesota.
   (J)   COUNTY BOARD. The Wright County Board of Commissioners.
   (K)   EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product that is intended to be eaten or
consumed as a beverage by humans; contains a cannabinoid other than an
artificially derived cannabinoid in combination with food ingredients; is not a
drug; and is a type of product approved for sale by the office, or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods. EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include lower-potency hemp edibles.
   (L)   FAMILY. Persons primarily related to each other by blood, marriage or
adoption.
   (M)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate; and
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT does not include artificially derived
cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp
fiber products, or hemp grain.
   (N)   PERMIT. A permit allowing a large assembly to be held in the county.
   (O)   PERMITTED PREMISES. The entire area to be used by the person to
conduct an assembly, including, but not limited to, the assembly area, vehicle
parking areas, camping areas and adjacent private and public roads.
   (P)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, society
or group seeking and/or receiving a large assembly permit from the county.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996; Ord. 24-1, passed 4-2-2024)
§ 91.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except those specifically exempted in accordance with §
91.04 of this chapter, shall maintain, conduct, allow, promote, advertise,
organize, manage or sell or give away tickets to an actual or reasonably
anticipated assembly of 500 or more people, whether upon public or private
property, without a permit duly approved by the County Board of Commissioners
and issued by the County Auditor in accordance with this chapter. Receipt of a
valid permit pursuant to this chapter does not waive the need for any other
federal, state or local permits or approvals that may be required. County
zoning approval may be required for events regularly held at the same location.
Only the property owner or a person with permission to operate on the property
of the proposed assembly may file an application. A person filing for an
assembly on a public right-of-way must provide proof of consent from the road
authority.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996; Ord. 24-1, passed 4-2-2024)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following public gatherings:
   (A)   Any regularly established and permanent place of worship, stadium,
athletic field, arena, auditorium, colosseum or other similarly established
place of assembly;
   (B)   Gatherings or activities permitted or licensed by other state laws or
county ordinances, including the state’s parks system and the county parks
system;
   (C)   Government sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds;
and/or
   (D)   Family gatherings taking place entirely upon the premises of a family
member.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 91.05 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Before any permit under this chapter may be issued, the person applying
shall supply information and demonstrate that the proposed assembly shall
satisfy the following requirements. The property owners’ signature shall be on
all assembly applications. All assemblies shall comply with the requirements
contained herein and shall be filed under oath and subject to penalties of
perjury.
   (A)   Maximum number of people. A permit shall only allow the assembly of
people up to the maximum number of people stated in the permit. The County
Board of Commissioners may impose restrictions on the maximum number people
which may be assembled as deemed necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of those people who shall be in attendance, the residents of the area
in which the assembly will be held and other residents of the county. The
permit holder shall not sell tickets to nor permit to assemble at the permitted
premises, more than the maximum permissible number of people stated in the
permit.
   (B)   Fenced grounds. A fence or barrier shall enclose assembly area, being
of sufficient height and strength to prevent people from gaining unauthorized
access to the assembly area, and having sufficient entrances and exits to allow
for safe and easy movement into and out of the assembly area. Vehicle parking
areas shall be exempted from inclusion within the fencing requirement, but
shall be considered to be a part of the permitted premises.
   (C)   Water. Potable water must be provided, meeting all federal and state
requirements for sanitary quality, in sufficient quantities to provide drinking
water for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least
one gallon per person per day. If the assembly is to continue for more than 24
consecutive hours, water for bathing must be provided at the rate of at least
ten gallons per person per day.
   (D)   Food. The preparation, sale and dispensing of any food on the
permitted premises shall be by vendors licensed by the state’s Department of
Health.
   (E)   Toilets. Enclosed toilets allowing for separate use by males and
females, sufficient in number to accommodate the maximum number of people to be
assembled, shall be provided and shall be conveniently located throughout the
permitted premises. Such facilities shall be provided in accordance with state
regulations and the recommendations of the County Office of Planning and
Zoning, Division of Environmental Health.
   (F)   Solid waste disposal. The permitted premises shall be maintained in a
neat and orderly manner and the permit holder shall provide a sanitary method
of disposing of solid waste which is of sufficient size to dispose of the solid
waste production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least two and one-half pounds of solid waste per person per day. The method
of disposal shall also provide for collection and removal from the permitted
premises of all solid waste at least once each day of the assembly. The
handling and disposal of solid waste shall also be accomplished in compliance
with all county and state regulations regarding solid waste.
   (G)   Noise. All necessary precautions shall be taken to ensure that the
sound of the assembly shall not carry unreasonably beyond the permitted
premises.
   (H)   Parking. The permit holder shall, at a minimum, provide a parking area
of sufficient size to provide parking space for the maximum number of people to
be assembled, based upon a calculated rate of at least one parking space for
every three people. All parking must be off of public roadways.
   (I)   Vehicle barriers. The permit holder shall install, and maintain during
the assembly event, enough vehicle jersey barriers or permanent bollards to
prohibit vehicle access into the area of the large assembly. Prior to filing an
application, the person making application shall provide a site plan, and pay
any applicable fees, to the Wright County Sheriff showing the proposed
placement and type of all vehicle barriers. No application shall be filed with
or accepted by the Wright County Auditor until the Wright County Sheriff has
affixed their approval to the vehicle barrier site plan.
   (J)   Administrative control center. An Administrative Control Center shall
be provided by the permit holder which shall be equipped with a telephone by
which local authorities may contact the permit holder, law enforcement
personnel or other people in attendance at the assembly.
   (K)   Lighting. For Assemblies continuing during hours of darkness, the
permit holder shall provide sufficient illumination to safely light the entire
permitted premises, but such illumination shall not unreasonably extend beyond
the boundaries of the permitted premises.
   (L)   Medical facilities. The permit holder shall ensure the availability of
appropriate medical facilities. For assemblies in excess of 1,000 people, the
permit holder shall provide an emergency ambulance on the site of the assembly
staffed by at least two licensed emergency attendants. The necessity of
additional medical facilities and personnel shall be determined by the
emergency medical providers for the assembly.
   (M)   Security. The Permit holder shall prepare and implement a security,
traffic, weather emergency and alcohol, cannabis and drug control plan which
shall meet the requirements of local authorities, including the County Sheriff.
The permit holder may be required to provide for the presence of law
enforcement personnel in such numbers as determined and deemed appropriate by
the Wright County Sheriff.
   (N)   Fire protection. The permit holder shall submit an approved plan with
their application for fire protection, as approved by the Fire Chief of the
Fire Department serving the location of the assembly.
   (O)   Camping facilities. If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping
facilities shall be provided which are sufficient to provide accommodations for
the maximum number of persons reasonably anticipated to remain overnight.
   (P)   Insurance. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the person shall file
with the County Auditor a certificate of insurance demonstrating that the
person has obtained a policy of insurance in the amount of not less than
$1,000,000 coverage for bodily injury, death or property damage arising out of
the assembly.
   (Q)   Bond. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the person shall file with
the County Auditor a bond, either in cash, or underwritten by a surety company
licensed to do business in the state, or an irrevocable letter of credit in an
amount to be determined by the County Board of Commissioners, which shall not
be less than $25,000, which bond shall indemnify and hold harmless the county
or any of its agents, officials or employees from any liability, claims or
causes of action which might arise by reason of granting this permit. Said bond
shall also cover the payment for services provided to the permit holder by the
county and for payment of any cost incurred in cleaning up, removing and
disposing of any solid waste left by the assembly and for any attorney fees
incurred by the county for enforcement actions. No portion of the bond shall be
released to the permit holder until all provisions of the permit have been
satisfied, as determined by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (R)   Cannabis. The person making application must state if cannabinoid
products including hemp-derived consumer products will be sold or permitted to
be used at the assembly. Cannabinoid products including but not limited to
cannabis flower, edible cannabis product, hemp-derived consumer products are
prohibited from being sold or used unless the person making application has a
cannabis event organizer license and complies with the requirement of M.S. §
342.40, as it may be amended from time to time, and any local cannabis
ordinances.
   (S)   Variances. The County Board of Commissioners may consider requests for
variances from any of the above permit requirements when a person can show that
strict compliance with this chapter would cause undue hardship by reason of the
special nature of the proposed assembly, the proposed duration of the assembly
or by reason of the circumstances surrounding the proposed assembly which would
make certain requirements of this section unnecessary. The County Board of
Commissioners may only grant a variance when it may be done without detriment
to the public health, safety, security, or welfare and where granting the
variance will not otherwise impair the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996; Ord. 24-1, passed 4-2-2024)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURES; FEES.
   (A)   Application. A completed application for a large assembly permit shall
be made in writing on a form provided by the County Auditor. For new
applications, the application shall be submitted to the County Auditor at least
90 days in advance of the proposed assembly. A person making an application for
an assembly that is the same or similar to a previously licensed assembly
conducted by the person in the prior 18 months shall be submitted to the County
Auditor at least 60 days in advance of the proposed assembly.
   (B)   Verification. The application shall be signed and verified by the
person seeking the permit. In the case of a corporation, the application shall
be signed by the president or other authorized representative. In the case of
any other association, society or group, the application shall be signed by the
appropriate officers or, if there are no officers, by all members. In the event
that the proposed assembly is to occur on property owned by a party other than
the person applying, the application shall also be signed by the property
owner.
   (C)   Fee. The application and permit fee for each permit issued under this
chapter shall be in accordance with the fee schedule as adopted by resolution
of the County Board of Commissioners. The non-refundable application fee shall
be paid at the time of submitting an application. The application fee will not
be refunded in the event of an incomplete, untimely, or denied application.
   (D)   Contents. The person seeking a permit shall supply all information
requested on the application form, including the following:
      (1)   The name, date of birth, residence and mailing address of the
person applying and of each individual required by division (B) above to sign
the application;
      (2)   The address and legal description of the proposed permitted
premises, together with the name, residence and mailing address of the record
owner(s) of all such property;
      (3)   The nature or purpose of the proposed assembly;
      (4)   The dates and times during which the proposed assembly will be
held; and
      (5)   Detailed information as to how the person applying will ensure that
the assembly will comply with the requirements of §
91.05 of this chapter.
   (E)   Denial of license. The Wright County Board of Commissioners shall deny
the issuance of a large assembly permit when the proposed assembly will be
detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public or for one
the following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information;
      (2)   The applicant, or a previous applicant, for the same or similar
proposed large assembly has failed to comply with any requirements of a
previously issued large assembly permit;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to comply with any requirements of a
previously issued large assembly permit;
      (4)   The application is untimely; or
      (5)   The applicant has not obtained any required permits for the sale of
alcohol, cannabis or tobacco.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996; Ord. 24-1, passed 4-2-2024)
§ 91.07 INPUT FROM ROAD AUTHORITIES.
   Within 30 days of submitting the completed application under this chapter,
the person applying shall secure the approval of the appropriate road
authorities for the traffic control plan and points of access onto established
public road systems for purposes of the assembly.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 91.08 PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked by the County Board of
Commissioners for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or for
failure to comply with any of the conditions contained within the permit. The
County Sheriff may suspend operation of and close any assembly prior to the
expiration of the permit granted under the provisions of this chapter in the
event of a riot, major disorder or serious breach of the peace, the assembly is
an unlicensed or illegal cannabis event, in the interests of public health and
safety, as necessary to prevent injury to people or damage to property.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996; Ord. 24-1, passed 4-2-2024)
§ 91.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication according to law.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or
who makes any false statement on the application required by §
91.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. In addition to other remedies, the County Attorney
may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct
or abate violations of this chapter.
(Res. 96-36, passed 7-9-1996; Ord. 24-1, passed 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   General conduct
   
92.04   Protection of natural resources and wildlife
   
92.05   Recreational activities
   
92.06   Vehicle regulations
   
92.07   Park operation
   
92.08   Bertram Chain of Lakes
   
92.09   Enforcement
   
92.10   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter, which is enacted pursuant to state statutes, is
to secure the quiet, orderly and suitable use and enjoyment of public park
reserves, county recreation areas, county-wide trail systems, wildlife
sanctuaries, forest, historical sites, waysides and public access to lakes,
rivers and streams in parks established by the county and to further the
safety, health, comfort and welfare of all persons in the use thereof.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any intoxicating beverage, as defined by state
statutes and includes, but is not limited to, intoxicating liquor, strong beer,
3.2% beer and wine.
   (B)   ASSISTED MOBILITY DEVICE. Any permitted single passenger, electric
powered device, which provides access for a person in need of assistance due to
a medical condition.
   (C)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any substance defined as a controlled substance
by M.S. Ch. 152, as it may be amended from time to time, or by other statutes
or federal law or regulations.
   (D)   MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLES. Any self-propelled, off-the-road or all
terrain conveyance, including but, not limited to, a snowmobile, mini-bike,
amphibious vehicle, motorcycle, go-cart, trail bike or dune buggy.
   (E)   PARK. Any land or water area, and all facilities thereon, established
as a park by the county pursuant to state statutes.
   (F)   PARK ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners to serve as the chief administrative officer of the county park
system.
   (G)   PARK MANAGER. The person designated by the County Board of
Commissioners with the responsibility for the operation and management of a
particular park or parks.
   (H)   PARK VISITOR. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental unit, company or organization of any kind within a park.
   (I)   PERMIT/SPECIAL USE PERMIT. Written permission obtained from the Park
Administrator or the County Parks Commission to carry out certain activities.
   (J)   VEHICLE. Any motorized, self-propelled, animal-drawn or human powered
conveyance.
   (K)   WEAPON. Any device including, but not limited to, firearms, bows and
arrows, slings and spring guns, pellet or BB guns, and electronic weapons, from
which a shot or projectile of any type is discharged or propelled by means of
an explosive, gas, compressed air or other means. An ELECTRONIC WEAPON means a
portable device which is designed, used or intended to be used, offensively or
defensively, to immobilize or incapacitate persons by the use of an electric
current.
   (L)   WILDLIFE. All living creatures, not human, wild by nature, endowed
with sensation and power or voluntary motion, including quadrupeds, mammals,
birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans and mollusks.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 92.03 GENERAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Possession and use of alcohol and controlled substances. It shall be
unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Serve, possess or consume any alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance within a park, except as follows:
         (a)   Malt beverages and wine, as defined under M.S. § 340A.101 as it
may be amended from time to time, which is not in a glass container, may be
possessed or consumed at reserved facilities and in designated and permitted
campsites;
         (b)   Intoxicating liquor, as defined under M.S. § 340A.101 as it may
be amended from time to time, may be possessed or consumed in a reserved
facility if the intoxicating liquor was distributed by a person with a
Caterer's Permit as regulated under Minn. Stat. § 340A.404, Subd. 12, as it may
be amended from time to time and prior notice of the event is given to the
county sheriff.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1) above, alcoholic beverages are never
permitted within 500 feet of an organized youth activity.
      (3)   Exhibit any offensive behavior while under the influence of any
alcoholic beverage or controlled substance.
   (B)   Public nuisance; breach of peace. It shall be unlawful for any person
to:
      (1)   Use threatening, abusive, insulting, obscene or indecent language,
or to act in an indecent manner, or to do any act which constitutes a breach of
the public peace in a park;
      (2)   Disturb, harass or interfere with any park visitor or a park
visitor’s property;
      (3)   Gamble in a park; and/or
      (4)   Use loudspeakers or other amplifying systems in a park, except with
written permission from the Park Administrator.
   (C)   Littering; release of foreign substance. It shall be unlawful for any
person to:
      (1)   Deposit, scatter, drop or abandon in a park any bottles, cans,
broken glass, sewage, waste or other material, except in receptacles provided
for such purposes. Said waste receptacles are to be used only by park visitors
for such wastes as are created during use of the park for recreational
activities. Other use of said waste receptacles is a violation of this chapter;
and/or
      (2)   Throw, discharge or place in any park or upon any lake, stream,
creek, pond or other body of water in or adjacent to any park, or upon any
tributary, stream, storm sewer or other drain flowing into such waters, any
foreign substance, liquid, solid or gas.
   (D)   Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Start a fire in a park, except in a designated area, such as a
fireplace or fire ring, or as otherwise allowed by a permit;
      (2)   Leave a fire unattended or fail to fully extinguish a fire; and/or
      (3)   Drop, throw, or otherwise leave unattended in a park, lighted
matches, burning cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, paper or other combustible
material.
   (E)   Destruction of park property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
intentionally deface, vandalize or otherwise cause destruction to park
property.
   (F)   Possession and use of weapons. It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess, hold, store, keep or carry within any park land, facility or
buildings, fire or discharge, or cause to be fired or discharged across, in or
into any portion of the any park land, facility or building and pistol, BB gun,
rifle or other firearm, spear, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot, air or gas
weapon, paintball gun or any other dangerous weapon or projectile, except for
purposes designated by the Parks Administrator in areas and at times designated
by the Parks Administrator. Persons who possess a valid state permit, or a
valid permit from another state which is recognized in the state may carry,
hold, keep, store or possess a pistol within any park land, facility or
building to the extent permitted by state law. Licensed peace officers are
exempt from the provisions of this division (F).
   (G)   Commercial use; public meetings and assemblies. It shall be unlawful
for any person to:
      (1)   Sell, solicit or carry on any business or commercial enterprise or
service in a park without a permit; and/or
      (2)   Conduct public meetings, assemblies, entertainment, parades or
demonstrations, within a park, without first obtaining a permit, and then only
in areas designated by the permit.
   (H)   Pets. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Bring a dog, cat or other pet into a park unless caged or kept on a
non-retractable leash not more than six feet in length, or to tether any animal
to a tree or other plant;
      (2)   Permit any dog, cat or other pet to enter a beach area, nature
center area, refuge area, picnic area, park building or other unauthorized area
within a park or into any park where their presence is prohibited by the Park
Administrator; and/or
      (3)   Permit a dog, cat or other pet to disturb, harass, or interfere
with any park visitor or a park visitor’s property.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. 19-3, passed 10-22-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PROTECTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND WILDLIFE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Injure, destroy or remove any tree, flower, shrub, plant, rock,
soil or mineral in a park;
      (2)   Kill, trap, hunt, pursue or in any manner disturb or cause to be
disturbed, any species of wildlife within a park; except that, fishing may be
permitted in designated areas;
      (3)   Remove any wildlife, living or dead, from a park, and any wildlife
so removed or taken contrary to the provisions of this chapter or any laws of
the state shall be considered contraband and subject to seizure and
confiscation; and/or
      (4)   Release within a park any plant, chemical or other agent
intentionally harmful to the vegetation or wildlife of the park.
   (B)   The county sponsored hunting events for veterans of the United States
Armed Forces are exempt from the provisions of divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3)
above.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Camping. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Camp in a park, except in areas provided and designated for that
purpose;
      (2)   Camp in a park without a permit;
      (3)   Cause, create or make any noise which disturbs the peace, quiet and
tranquility of the camping area;
      (4)   Discharge water or any other waste in a park, except into
designated containers, drains or dumping stations;
      (5)   Dig trenches or make any other excavations in a park; and/or
      (6)   Occupy camp sites in a park contrary to a permit, or violate any
provision of a permit.
   (B)   Swimming. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Wade or swim within a park, except at beaches designated for that
purpose, and then only between sunrise and sunset, or such hours as may be
designated by the Park Administrator, and park visitors shall swim or wade at
their own risk when lifeguards are not on duty;
      (2)   Wade, swim or use any beach in a park without proper bathing
attire;
      (3)   Take cans, bottles or glass of any kind, except eye glasses, into a
designated beach area; and/or
      (4)   Use air mattresses, inner tubes or other inflatable devices, except
in designated beach areas.
   (C)   Boating. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Launch or land any boat, yacht, canoe, raft or other watercraft
upon any water, lagoon, lake, pond or slough within a park, except at locations
and times designated for that purpose;
      (2)   Leave unattended any boat or other watercraft, except in areas
designated for that purpose;
      (3)   Operate any watercraft in a designated swimming area or other
prohibited area; and/or
      (4)   Operate any watercraft in a park in violation of M.S. Ch. 86B,
Water Safety, Watercraft and Watercraft Titling, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (D)   Fishing. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Fish in a park in violation of any provision of M.S. Ch. 97C, as it
may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Fish in a park area designated as a no fishing area;
      (3)   Leave any structure or shelter on a frozen body of water in any
park for more than 72 hours; and/or
      (4)   Leave, store, abandon or otherwise cause to remain on any park
property or access site, any fish house, dark house, portable shelter or other
structure. Any such structure left on park property for more than 72 hours will
be confiscated and/or destroyed.
   (E)   Horseback riding. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Ride, lead or permit a horse to be within a park, except in
designated riding areas and at designated hours; and/or
      (2)   Ride a horse in a reckless manner or in a manner to create a
nuisance or to likely endanger the safety or property of any park visitor.
   (F)   Bicycling. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a bicycle except on park designated bikeways and roadways,
and except as close to the right-hand side thereof as conditions will permit;
      (2)   Operate a mountain bike or similar cycle, except on bike trails and
roadways as permitted by the Park Administrator; and/or
      (3)   Ride or operate a bicycle in a less than prudent and careful
manner, or at speed faster than is reasonable and safe with regard to the
safety of the operator and other persons in the immediate area.
   (G)   Roller skating/rollerblading. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Roller skate or rollerblade in a park, except on paved bike trails
unless posted otherwise; and/or
      (2)   Roller skate or rollerblade in a park in a less than prudent and
careful manner, or at a speed faster than is reasonable and safe with regard to
the safety of the operator and other persons in the immediate area.
   (H)   Winter activities. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Skate, sled, coast, snowshoe or ski in a park, except at such times
and at such paces as may be designated therefore; and/or
      (2)   Cross-country ski in a park in violation of M.S. Ch. 85, as it may
be amended from time to time (without the required license).
   (I)   Snowmobiling. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a snowmobile in a park, except at such times and at such
places as may be designated therefore; and/or
      (2)   Operate a snowmobile in a park in excess of the posted speed
limits, at a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under current
conditions, or in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
the person or property of another, or to cause injury or damage thereto.
   (J)   Use of motorized recreation vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motorized recreation vehicle within a park, except at such
times and in such areas as designated by the Park Administrator.
   (K)   Use of aircraft. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Use any land or body of water within a park for a starting or
landing field for aircraft, hot air balloons or parachutes, without a permit
from the Park Administrator; and/or
      (2)   Start, fly or use any fuel powered model aircraft, model rocket or
like-powered toy or model, in a park without a permit.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Operation. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate any vehicle within a park, except upon roadways, parking
areas or other designated locations therefor;
      (2)   Operate a motorized recreational vehicle within a park except in
such areas and at such times as designated by the Park Administrator or the
County Board of Commissioners, or permitted to the extent necessary to
accommodate reasonable and safe use of a trail by persons with disabilities
dependent upon motorized transport;
      (3)   Operate a vehicle in a park at a speed in excess of posted speed
limits;
      (4)   Operate a vehicle in a park in a reckless or careless manner; and/
or
      (5)   Operate a vehicle which emits excessive or unusual noise, noxious
fumes, dense smoke or other polluting matter in a park.
   (B)   Parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Park or leave a vehicle standing within a park, except in a
designated parking area; and/or
      (2)   Park or leave a vehicle standing after posted closing hours without
a valid camping permit or other special use permit.
   (C)   Wash and repair. It shall be unlawful for any person to wash, polish,
grease, change oil or repair any vehicle in a park.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 PARK OPERATION.
   (A)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   Parks shall be open to the public daily from 6:00 a.m. until 10:00
p.m., unless otherwise posted. It shall be unlawful for a person to enter or
remain in a park at any other time, except for campers in a designated camping
area.
      (2)   Any park or portion thereof may be declared closed to the public by
the Park Administrator, by the County Board of Commissioners or by the County
Sheriff, at any time, and for any interval of time, for the protection of park
property, for the protection of the public health, safety or welfare, or as the
Park Administrator, the County Board of Commissioners or the County Sheriff
shall find reasonably necessary.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   A person may be granted a permit by the Park Administrator or his
or her authorized representative for special uses or activities within a park,
or for temporary exclusive use of a reserved space within a park.
      (2)   Permits shall be required for any entertainment, tournament,
exhibition or any other special use of gathering which can reasonably be
expected to involve 50 or more persons.
      (3)   The Park Administrator or his or her authorized representative may
impose conditions upon use in connection with the granting of a permit. Any
person, whether the permit applicant or not, who is using a park in accordance
with a permit that has been granted, shall comply with the conditions of said
permit.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for a person to violate any conditions of a
permit.
      (5)   Any permit granted pursuant to this section may be revoked by the
Park Administrator or his or her authorized representative upon the violation
by the permit holder of any portion of this chapter or any provision of state
statutes.
   (C)   Park fees. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any facility or
area for which a fee or charge has been established by the county parks without
payment of such fee or charge.
   (D)   Liability. The county and county parks shall not be liable for any
loss, damage or injury to property or persons sustained by any park visitor.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. 19-3, passed 10-22-2019) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 BERTRAM CHAIN OF LAKES.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the operation and use of all grounds and
waters within the boundaries of the Bertram Chain of Lakes and are
supplementary to the any other general park ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever does any of the following, without a permit, is guilty of a
crime: violates any of the restrictions as provided by §
131.04(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Licensed peace officers and employees of the County Parks Department,
in the official pursuit of their duties, are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Park Administrator and the County Board of Commissioners shall
have the right to issue administrative rules and regulations for the purpose of
clarifying and administering this chapter.
   (B)   The County Sheriff’s office, other peace officers, DNR Conservation
Officers and designated county parks employees shall have the authority to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and may eject from a park any persons
acting in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent county parks employees from
performing their assigned duties.
   (D)   No person shall impersonate any county parks employee, nor shall they
interfere with, harass or hinder any county parks employee in the discharge of
his or her duties.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective upon passage and publication according to
state statutes.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. All fines collected under this chapter shall be
deposited in the County Park Fund.
   (B)   The Park Administrator shall have the authority to revoke for good
cause any permit or reservation issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 5-13-2014)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC HEALTH; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Objectives
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   General prohibitions
   
93.05   Disclaimer of liability
   
93.06   Fees
   
93.07   Effective date
Administration
   
93.20   Standards adopted
   
93.21   Declaration as public health nuisance
   
93.22   Modifications to or dismissal of the declaration
   
93.23   Access to premises and records
   
93.24   Interference with Health Authority
   
93.25   Investigation and response to public health nuisance
   
93.26   Costs and reimbursements
   
93.27   Appeals
Clandestine Lab Sites
   
93.40   Peace officer notification
   
93.41   Handling hazardous wastes and materials
   
93.42   Posting of site
   
93.43   Actions to secure site
   
93.44   Health Authority notice to owner of site
   
93.45   Remediation plan
   
93.46   Health Authority abates nuisance
   
93.47   Vacating the public health nuisance order
   
93.48   Property disclosure
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect the health, safety and general welfare of
the people of the county pursuant to powers granted under M.S. Ch. 145A and
375, as they may be amended from time to time, and M.S. § 152.0275, as it may
be amended from time to time, and subsequent recodifications and/or amendments,
and other applicable legislation, as may be adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.02 OBJECTIVES.
   The principal objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To prevent injury and illness to occupants of the property and the
public, especially children and vulnerable adults;
   (B)   To provide countywide standards for the abatement of public health
nuisances including, but not limited to, clandestine lab sites;
   (C)   To establish responsibility of involved parties and assure that people
are not unnecessarily exposed to dangers of public health nuisances; and
   (D)   To ensure proper actions are taken to remediate or abate public health
nuisances.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions of words, phrases and terms used in this chapter shall be those
set forth in M.S. §§ 145A.02 and 152.0275, as they may be amended from time to
time, and this section. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   (A)   ABATEMENT. The proper removal and/or containment of substances or
materials hazardous to humans and/or the environment. ABATEMENT is part of
remediation.
   (B)   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   (C)   CLANDESTINE LAB SITE. Any structure or conveyance or outdoor location
occupied or affected by the conditions or chemicals typically associated with
the manufacturing of methamphetamine or other unlawful manufacture of a
controlled substance.
   (D)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance or immediate precursor as
defined in M.S. § 152.01, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time. The
term shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating
liquors or tobacco.
   (E)   COUNTY. Wright County.
   (F)   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Includes, but is not limited to, removing and
collecting evidence; securing the site; and removal, remediation and hazardous
chemical assessment or inspection of the site where the relevant offense or
offenses took place, regardless of whether these actions are performed by the
public entities themselves or by private contractors paid by the public
entities or the property owner.
   (G)   GARBAGE. Any discarded material resulting from the handling,
processing, storage, preparation, serving and consumption of food.
   (H)   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The County Human Services Board and its designated
employees, agents or contractors, as the County Board of Commissioners may
designate.
   (I)   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies real property, whether with or
without any right, title or interest in the property, and any person in
possession or charge of such property, in the event the owner resides or is
located elsewhere.
   (J)   OWNER. Any person, persons, organization or corporation that owns, in
whole or in part, the land, structure or other property or is the purchaser of
the property under contract for deed.
   (K)   PERSONAL PROPERTY. All property other than that defined in definitions
for “property” and “structure” herein that is subject to ownership.
   (L)   PROPERTY. Publicly- or privately-owned real property, including
buildings and other structures, motor vehicles as defined in M.S. § 609.487,
subd. 2a, as it may be amended from time to time, public waters and public
rights-of-way.
   (M)   PROPERTY AGENT. A person authorized by a property owner to act in
transacting business matters or in managing the affairs of the property.
   (N)   PROFESSIONAL REMEDIATION FIRM. A firm that has provided written
assurance to the Health Authority that they have appropriate equipment,
procedures and personnel to accomplish remediation and that they are an
experienced HAZMAT contractor.
   (O)   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. Any activity or failure to act that adversely
affects the public health and shall include, but is not limited to, any
condition which poses an immediate and direct hazard to human health if left
unremedied due to the existence of the condition itself or due to the immediate
threat of transmission of disease through insects, animals or other means of
transmission or infections and includes, but is not limited to, a clandestine
lab site and other public health hazards.
   (P)   REMEDIATION. Proper cleanup, treatment or containment of hazardous
substances or methamphetamine, in accordance with local, state or federal
regulations, at or in a clandestine lab site or public health nuisance, and may
include demolition or disposal of structures or other property when an
assessment so indicates.
   (Q)   RUBBISH. Any non-putrescible solid wastes including, but not limited
to, ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding,
furniture, appliances, concrete, asphalt, tires, plastic, metal or fiberglass.
   (R)   STRUCTURE. A dwelling, building, motor vehicle, trailer, boat,
appliance or any other area or location, either fixed or temporary.
   (S)   VULNERABLE ADULT. The meaning as defined in M.S. Ch. 609.232, subd.
11, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (T)   WASTE. Material that, in the opinion of the Health Authority, is no
longer of any value for its original purpose and has been or should be
discarded.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.04 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General. The creation or maintenance of a public health nuisance is
prohibited. The following are hereby expressly declared to be public health
nuisances without limitation by reason of such enumeration:
      (1)   A clandestine lab site;
      (2)   Improper sewage disposal to such degree that sewage or effluent is
discharging onto the surface of the ground, backing up into a structure or
discharging into a body of water;
      (3)   An unsecured hole or opening caused by improperly abandoned
cistern, well pit, sewage treatment system, unused or non-maintained swimming
pool, mine shaft or tunnel;
      (4)   Failure to keep waste, refuse or garbage in an enclosed building or
properly contained in a closed, insect- and rodent-proof, container designed or
reasonably adapted for such purpose, except for the immediate time preceding
pick-up by a refuse hauler;
      (5)   Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds or fish by failing to
bury or otherwise dispose of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death.
This provision shall not apply if the animals, birds or fish are intended for
human consumption;
      (6)   Accumulation of decaying animal or vegetable matter, animal or
human feces, trash, rubbish, garbage, rotting lumber, packing material, scrap
metal, tires or any other substances which can harbor flies, mosquitoes, other
disease carrying insects, rodents or other vermin; this definition does not
include compost bins or compost sites which are being managed in accordance
with acceptable standards;
      (7)   Accumulations of waste, refuse, garbage, rubbish or junk as to
become dangerous or injurious to the health and safety of any individual or to
the public;
      (8)   Any structure that has become dangerous for further occupancy
because of sanitary defects;
      (9)   Infestations of flies, fleas, cockroaches, lice, rats, mice, fly
larvae or hookworm larvae; and
      (10)   Unnatural breeding grounds which support mosquito larvae and
mosquitoes capable of carrying West Nile Virus, La Crosse Encephalitis Virus or
any other disease causing microorganism.
   (B)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   This chapter shall be applicable in all incorporated and
unincorporated municipalities (city or township) within the boundaries or the
county under the jurisdiction of the County Human Services Board.
      (2)   This chapter does not preempt any ordinances adopted by a city or
township related to clandestine lab sites or related to buildings and housing.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.05 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the county or any
officer, employee or agent thereof for any damages that may result from
administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be limited as provided by
M.S. § 466.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.06 FEES.
   Fees for the Health Authority complaint investigation, verification,
administration and enforcement of violations of this chapter shall be those
established by resolution, as amended from time to time, of the County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   After passage by the County Board of Commissioners, this chapter took effect
on 11-29-2011.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 93.20 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   This chapter incorporates by reference the provisions of M.S. Ch. 145A, as
it may be amended from time to time, unless clearly inapplicable, and M.S. §
152.0275, as it may be amended from time to time, and all subsequent
recodifications and amendments.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.21 DECLARATION AS PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Health Authority to determine whether or
not a public health nuisance exists.
   (B)   For purposes of emergency response and notification to applicable
authorities and posting for the public, a peace officer may determine that a
structure, property or portion of a property constitutes a public health
nuisance, including, but not limited to, the determination that the site
constitutes a clandestine lab site.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.22 MODIFICATIONS TO OR DISMISSAL OF THE DECLARATION.
   (A)   The Health Authority may modify conditions of the declaration or
dismiss the declaration of a public health nuisance.
   (B)   Such modifications or dismissal shall occur only after the Health
Authority has confirmed that the levels of contamination are sufficiently
reduced through abatement, remediation or other evidence discovered.
   (C)   The Health Authority will base its criteria for determining levels of
contamination on the best health and safety information available at the time
of the remediation and cannot be held liable for future discoveries.
   (D)   For good cause shown, the owner or occupant may request authorization
from the Health Authority for an extension of time to complete abatement
activities. The Health Authority may grant such extension if the extension does
not increase the risk to public health or safety and is deemed appropriate by
the Health Authority.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.23 ACCESS TO PREMISES AND RECORDS.
   The owner or other parties shall, upon the request of the Health Authority
and after proper identification, permit access to all parts of the site or
structure as often as necessary, and at any reasonable time for the purposes of
inspection, remediation and abatement, and shall exhibit and allow copying of
any and all records necessary to ascertain compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 INTERFERENCE WITH HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   No person shall, in any way, interfere with or hinder the Health Authority
in the performance of duties, or refuse the Health Authority access to gather
information necessary to ascertain compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 INVESTIGATION AND RESPONSE TO PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   Health Authority owner notification. Upon declaration of a public
health nuisance, the Health Authority shall give written notice of its
determination and orders to abate the nuisance to the owner, occupant and
property agent, if applicable. This notice shall be served in person, by
certified mail or by an officer authorized to serve a warrant and contain the
following:
      (1)   Property location by street address, property identification number
or other property description;
      (2)   Information identifying the nature of the public health nuisance at
the property;
      (3)   A summary of the owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities under this
chapter;
      (4)   Specific orders for abatement or remediation of the public health
nuisance;
      (5)   A date for completion of the abatement not to exceed ten county
business days following the receipt of the notice unless a shorter time is
required due to the Health Authority’s further determination that the immediate
abatement is necessary to protect the public’s health and safety. In such
cases, the reason for a shortened abatement period shall be specified; and
      (6)   Information regarding a right of appeal as provided in §
93.27 of this chapter and that, unless the threat to public health is abated or
removed in accordance with the terms of the notice, the Health Authority will
have the public health nuisance abated or removed at the expense of the owner
under the provisions of M.S. § 145A.08, as it may be amended from time to time,
this chapter or other applicable state or local law.
   (B)   Unknown or absent property owner. In the event the owner of the
property is unknown or absent and has no known representative upon whom the
notice can be served, the Health Authority shall post a written or printed
notice on the property stating that, unless the threat to the public health is
abated or removed within the ten county business days, the Health Authority
will have the public health nuisance abated or removed at the expense of the
owner under the provisions of M.S. § 145A.08, as it may be amended from time to
time, this chapter or other applicable state or local law.
   (C)   Public notification. The Health Authority shall provide information in
writing about the public health nuisance declaration and potential hazard(s) to
the following persons as applicable and appropriate:
      (1)   Child protection unit in situations of potential child maltreatment
or endangerment;
      (2)   Adult protection unit in situations of potential vulnerable adult
maltreatment or endangerment;
      (3)   Neighbors in close proximity likely to be affected by the
conditions found at the site;
      (4)   The local municipal clerk, city administrator or other city
official;
      (5)   Local law enforcement officials; or
      (6)   Other state and local authorities that may have public safety or
environmental protection responsibilities.
   (D)   Warning sign. The Health Authority shall post a warning sign when
deemed necessary to further protect the public health and safety. The warning
sign shall be posted on the entrance(s) of the structure or property and
contain information sufficient to alert visitors or returning occupants to the
site that it may be dangerous to enter and that entry is prohibited unless
authorized by the Health Authority or the law enforcement department posting
the sign. Any person other than the Health Authority or its designated agent
that removes a warning sign shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Health Authority abates nuisance. If the owner, property agent or
occupant, fails or neglects to comply with the requirements in the notice
provided under division (A) above, then the Health Authority shall abate or
remediate the public health nuisance described in the notice. The Health
Authority will recoup such costs as necessary to abate the public health
nuisance as provided in §
93.26 of this chapter and M.S. § 145A.08, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Vacating the public health nuisance order. Upon Health Authority
verification of proper abatement, remediation or removal at the site, the
Health Authority shall issue written notice to those persons served notice
under division (A) above that the public health nuisance order is vacated.
Notice shall also be provided, as applicable and appropriate, to those persons
provided information under division (C) above.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.26 COSTS AND REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   Recovery of costs.
      (1)   If the Health Authority is required to remove, abate or remediate a
public health nuisance, the county may recover costs incurred in investigation,
removal, abatement or remediation in a civil action or, at the discretion of
the County Board of Commissioners. The cost of enforcement action under this
chapter may be assessed and charged against the real property on which the
public health nuisance was located, pursuant to M.S. § 145A.08, as it may be
amended from time to time. The county shall extend the cost as assessed and
charged on the tax roll against said real property.
      (2)   When the estimated cost of abatement and remediation exceeds 75% of
the County Assessor’s market value of the structure, the County Administrator
or designee, is authorized to notify the property owner of the county’s intent
to remove and dispose of the affected property instead of proceeding with
abatement and remediation. For motor vehicles, the county will use the Kelley
Blue Book value or equivalent in determining market value.
      (3)   Nothing herein precludes or limits the county from seeking recovery
of costs through other methods allowed by federal or state law.
   (B)   Subrogation rights. Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit the
subrogation rights of any party and the owner occupants. The county shall
maintain the right to recover costs, referenced in this section, from persons
contributing to the damage, such as those convicted of manufacturing
methamphetamine or other controlled substances.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.27 APPEALS.
   (A)   Right of appeal. When a public health nuisance is declared, an owner
and/or an occupant of the affected property may appeal the declaration,
including an order for abatement or remediation from the Health Authority, by
filing a written request with the Health Authority for an administrative
hearing within ten calendar days of the date of service, exclusive of the day
of service, of notice under §§
93.25(A) or
93.44 of this chapter, exclusive of the day of service. In the event of an
unknown or absent property owner, the appeal must be requested within ten
calendar days of the day of posting of the notice under §
93.25(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Administrative hearing. If any owner or occupant makes a written
request to the Health Authority for an administrative hearing, such hearing
shall be held before the Health Authority Division Manager or his or her
designee.
   (C)   Schedule. The hearing shall be held no later than 15 calendar days
after the date of service of the request for a hearing was received unless the
appellant requests an extension of time. If an extension is requested, the
hearing shall be held no later than 30 calendar days after the date of service
of the request for a hearing.
   (D)   Notice. The Health Authority shall mail a notice of the time and place
of the hearing at least ten calendar days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   Witnesses and evidence. All parties shall have full opportunity to
respond to and present evidence and witnesses.
   (F)   Standard of proof. The appellant shall have the burden of proving its
position by clear and convincing evidence.
   (G)   Rules of evidence. Hearings shall be informal and the rules of
evidence as applied in the courts shall not apply. Irrelevant, immaterial and
repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
   (H)   Record of hearing. The hearing shall be taped or videotaped.
   (I)   Notice of decision. The decision of the Health Authority Division
Manager shall be issued within ten calendar days following the administrative
hearing. Unless otherwise provided by law, the decision of the Health Authority
shall constitute the final decision unless the County Board of Commissioners
modifies or rejects it as provided in division (J) below.
   (J)   Human Services Board review. Each party adversely affected may submit
written exceptions and arguments to the Human Services Board within ten
calendar days of the service of the decision Health Authority Director. The
Human Services Board shall consider the decision of the Health Authority at the
next possible Board meeting and may adopt or modify the decision, reject the
decision or remand for further hearing.
   (K)   Further appellate rights. Any party aggrieved by a final decision is
entitled to judicial review of the decision. A petition for a writ of
certiorari by the party must be filed with the Court of Appeals not more than
30 calendar days after the party receives the final decision from the County
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
CLANDESTINE LAB SITES
§ 93.40 PEACE OFFICER NOTIFICATION.
   A peace officer who identifies a clandestine lab site shall notify the
Health Authority of the location and of any arrests made at the site. If a
child, or a vulnerable adult is present, the peace officer shall also notify
the child protection unit or the adult protection unit.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.41 HANDLING HAZARDOUS WASTES AND MATERIALS.
   A peace officer or designated agent shall attempt to secure, store,
transport or dispose of suspected hazardous waste and hazardous materials found
at the site in a manner consistent with all applicable laws, ordinances,
regulations and rules.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.42 POSTING OF SITE.
   Upon identification of a clandestine lab site, a peace officer shall post a
warning sign at the entrance(s) on the property as a public health nuisance in
a form approved by the Health Authority. The sign must state that no person(s)
shall enter, occupy or remove any personal property from the site without
authorization of the Health Authority or the law enforcement department that
posted the property as a public health nuisance. Persons who enter a property
without authorization or remove the sign will be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.43 ACTIONS TO SECURE SITE.
   (A)   The law enforcement department posting the property as a public health
nuisance shall have the authority to secure all structures on the site that may
pose a threat to public safety.
   (B)   These methods may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Removing all persons occupying the site;
      (2)   Overseeing the initial removal of all chemical materials in
accordance with §
93.41 of this chapter;
      (3)   Boarding up and locking buildings;
      (4)   Towing any vehicles involved to places of safe storage; and
      (5)   Removing all domesticated animals from the site.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.44 HEALTH AUTHORITY NOTICE TO OWNER OF SITE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the peace officer’s notice of a clandestine lab site,
the Health Authority shall give written notice of the determination and orders
to remediate the site to the owner, occupant and property agent, if applicable.
This notice shall be served in person, by certified mail, or by an officer
authorized to serve a warrant. If the owner is unknown, the Health Authority
will follow the provisions of §
93.25(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   The notice will contain the following:
      (1)   Property location by street address, property identification number
or other property description;
      (2)   The determination that the property constitutes a clandestine lab
site and therefore a public health nuisance requiring a remediation plan;
      (3)   The requirements of the remediation plan in §
93.45 of this chapter;
      (4)   The remediation plan must be received by the Health Authority
within ten county business days following the receipt of the notice; and
      (5)   The property owner, occupant or property agent must receive Health
Authority approval prior to implementing the remediation plan. The notice of
the action shall state the right of appeal as provided in §
93.27 of this chapter and that, unless the threat to public health is abated or
removed in accordance with the terms of the notice, the Health Authority will
have the public health nuisance abated or removed at the expense of the owner
under the provisions of M.S. §§ 145A.08 and 152.0275, as they may be amended
from time to time, this chapter or other applicable state or local law.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.45 REMEDIATION PLAN.
   (A)   The written remediation plan shall be completed by a professional
remediation firm on forms approved by the Health Authority.
   (B)   The plan shall provide information on the following activities the
professional remediation firm will complete within 30 calendar days following
the Health Authority’s approval of the remediation plan:
      (1)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at the
site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
      (2)   A detailed remediation schedule of activities;
      (3)   A complete abatement of the site, including if appropriate the
removal and destruction (to prevent salvaging) of all contaminated personal
property on the site;
      (4)   A complete cleanup of all property in proximity to the site that is
found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site; and
      (5)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing to determine that health
risks are sufficiently reduced, according to the state’s Department of Health’s
Clandestine Drug Lab General Cleanup Guidelines and best practices at the time
of abatement, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and/or use of
the personal property therein.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.46 HEALTH AUTHORITY ABATES NUISANCE.
   If the owner, occupant or agent fails or neglects to comply with the
requirements of the notice provided under §
93.44 of this chapter, the Health Authority shall remove or abate the nuisance
as provided in §
93.25 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.47 VACATING THE PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE ORDER.
   Upon proper removal and remediation of the site, the professional
remediation firm shall verify to the property owner and the Health Authority
that the work was completed according to the state’s Department of Health’s
Clandestine Drug Lab General Cleanup Guidelines and best practices. The
professional remediation firm shall provide written verification to the
property owner and the Health Authority within five county business days from
the completion of the remediation. Following the Health Authority’s review and
approval of the contractor’s verification, the Health Authority shall vacate
the public health nuisance order.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.48 PROPERTY DISCLOSURE.
   According to the requirements set forth in M.S. § 152.0275, subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time, and subsequent amendments, the following
steps shall be taken to disclose a property’s contamination status associated
with a clandestine lab site to interested persons.
   (A)   The Health Authority shall notify the Registrar of Motor Vehicles of a
vehicle’s contamination associated with a clandestine lab site following the
issuance of orders under §
93.44 of this chapter. The Health Authority will provide a subsequent notice
when the motor vehicle remediation is completed according to §
93.45 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Health Authority shall record an affidavit with the County
Recorder of a property’s contamination associated with a clandestine lab site
following the issuance of orders under §
93.44 of this chapter. The Health Authority will record a subsequent affidavit
when the property remediation is completed according to §
93.45 of this chapter.
   (C)   The County Recorder must record all affidavits presented under
division (B) above in a manner that assures their disclosure in the ordinary
course of a title search of the subject property.
   (D)   The Health Authority shall maintain a list, available to the public
upon request, of properties receiving notices under §
93.44 of this chapter and their status under §
93.45 of this chapter.
   (E)   Prior to signing an agreement to sell or transfer real property, the
seller or transferor must disclose in writing to the buyer or transferee if, to
the seller’s or transferor’s knowledge, methamphetamine production has occurred
on the property.
   (F)   Prior to signing a lease or rental agreement, the owner or owner’s
representative, must disclose in writing to the renter or tenant if, to the
owner or owner’s representative’s knowledge, methamphetamine production has
occurred on the property.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter, or who permits a
violation to exist on the premises under his or her control, or fails to take
action to abate the existence of the violation(s) within a specified time
period, when ordered or notified to do so by the Health Authority, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided by law. Each day that a violation continues shall constitutes a
separate offense.
   (B)   Civil remedies. In the event of a violation or threat of violation of
this chapter, the County Attorney may take appropriate action to enforce this
chapter, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action in court, if necessary, to prevent,
restrain,
correct or abate such violations or threatened violations. The County Attorney
enforcing provisions of this chapter may seek costs and disbursements,
including staff time and attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 11-29-2011)
CHAPTER 94: EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
94.01   License required
   
94.02   Licensing procedure
   
94.03   Criteria for granting license
   
94.04   Mandatory conditions
   
94.05   Additional conditions
   
94.06   Revocation of license
   
94.07   Financial responsibility
   
94.08   Explosives quantity; distance criteria
   
94.09   Non-conforming storage
   
94.10   Transfer of license prohibited
   
94.11   Expansion prohibited
   
94.12   Fee
   
94.13   Effective date
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of
explosives including materials or products such as TNT or dynamite, which could
decompose by detonation, shall be permitted, except as are specifically
licensed by the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   EXPLOSIVE means any compound or mixture, the primary or common purpose
of which is to function by explosion; that is, with substantially instantaneous
release of gas and heat; but shall not mean or include the components for hand-
loading rifle, pistol and shotgun ammunition, and/or rifle, pistol and shotgun
ammunition, black powder, primers and fuses when used for ammunition and
components for antique or replica muzzle-loading rifles, pistols, muskets,
shotguns and cannons, or fireworks, as defined in M.S. § 624.20, as it may be
amended from time to time, nor shall it include any fertilizer product
possessed, used or sold solely for a legitimate agricultural forestry,
conservation or horticultural purpose.
   (B)   The person applying for an explosives storage license shall fill out
and submit to the County Board of Commissioners an explosives storage license
application form.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the
proposal. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper designated by the County Board of Commissioners at least ten days
prior to the hearing. Notice of the hearing shall also be submitted to the
governing bodies of all towns and municipalities within two miles of the
property under consideration. In unincorporated areas of the county, property
owners of record within one-quarter miles of the affected property or the ten
properties nearest to the affected property, whichever is the greatest number
of property owners, shall be notified in writing of the public hearing on the
request for an explosives storage license.
   (D)   The petitioner or his or her representative shall appear before the
County Board of Commissioners in order to answer questions concerning the
proposed explosives storage license.
   (E)   An amended explosives storage license application shall be
administered in a manner similar to that required for a new explosives license.
Amended explosives storage licenses shall include requests for changes in
conditions.
   (F)   No application for an explosives storage license shall be resubmitted
for a period of six months from the date of an order of denial. Explosives
storage licenses shall be valid for 12 months unless specified otherwise.
Application for renewal of the explosives storage license shall be made
annually to the County Board of Commissioners. The County Board of
Commissioners may require a public hearing as a condition of an explosives
storage license renewal. All conditions in an explosives storage license shall
be commenced within six months and shall be complied with within one year
unless otherwise specified.
   (G)   If a time limit or periodic review is included as a condition by which
an explosives storage license is granted, the explosives storage license may be
reviewed at a public hearing with notice of said hearing published at least ten
days prior to the review.
   (H)   In the event that the applicant violates any of the conditions set
forth in this license, the County Board of Commissioners shall have the
authority to revoke the explosives storage license.
   (I)   A certified copy of any explosives storage license shall be filed with
the County Recorder. The explosives storage license shall include the legal
description of the property involved.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.03 CRITERIA FOR GRANTING LICENSE.
   (A)   In granting an explosives storage license, the County Board of
Commissioners shall consider the effect of the proposed use upon the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of occupants of surrounding lands.
   (B)   Among other things, the County Board of Commissioners shall make the
following findings, where applicable:
      (1)   The explosive storage will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, not substantially diminish and impair property values within the
immediate vicinity;
      (2)   The establishment of the explosive storage will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property
for uses predominant in the area;
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
      (5)   The use is not in conflict with the policies plan of the county;
and
      (6)   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these
will constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in
such a manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.04 MANDATORY CONDITIONS.
   The proposed licensee shall comply with the following conditions prior to
the granting of an explosives storage license by the County Board of
Commissioners standards.
   (A)   All federal, state and local laws, statutes, rules, codes, regulations
and ordinances regarding the manufacture, handling, storage and use of
explosives shall be fully complied with.
   (B)   The proposed licensee shall provide to the County Board of
Commissioners certificates from qualified federal and state authorities that
the proposed facility or use fully complies with all federal, state regarding
the manufacture, handling, storage and use of explosives prior to the granting
of an explosives storage license by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Certificates required by division (B) above shall be provided to the
County Board of Commissioners annually after the explosive storage license is
granted.
   (D)   The proposed licensee shall provide the following information in
addition to any other information the County Board of Commissioners shall
require:
      (1)   The quantity of explosives handled, used, manufactured and stored;
      (2)   The type of explosives handled, used, manufactured and stored;
      (3)   Distances of explosives facilities from neighboring property;
      (4)   Building site plans of the explosives facility itself;
      (5)   Past safety record of proposed licensee as shown in federal and
state records, and local laws, regulations and ordinances;
      (6)   The type and density of neighboring property use;
      (7)   A certificate of the local fire chief indicating local ability to
deal with any emergency at the explosives facility; and
      (8)   The road conditions around the explosives facility providing access
to the explosives facility and the routes to be traveled.
   (E)   As a condition of receiving an explosives storage license, the
proposed licensee shall agree that should action be required by the county
against the proposed licensee to enforce this chapter or any provisions of the
explosives storage license granted to the proposed licensee, then the proposed
licensee shall pay all reasonable costs associated with the enforcement action
including attorneys’ fees as the court may adjudge reasonable.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In granting an explosives storage license or the alteration of an
existing explosives storage license, the County Board of Commissioners may
impose, in addition to these standards and requirements expressly specified by
this chapter, additional conditions which the County Board of Commissioners
considers necessary to protect the best interest of the surrounding area or the
community as a whole.
   (B)   These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
      (2)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
      (7)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property; and
      (8)   Designating sites for open space.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners may revoke the explosives storage
license if any of the conditions of this chapter or the license are not
complied with.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners may revoke explosives storage
license if a public nuisance develops at the explosives facility from odor,
fumes, dust, noise, accidental explosions, poor safety procedures or any other
circumstances indicating a public nuisance.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.07 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   As a condition of obtaining an explosives storage license, the
proposed licensee shall demonstrate financial responsibility to pay claims of
liability for personal injury, economic loss, response costs and natural
resources damage that the proposed licensee may incur as a result of explosion
or any other harm resulting from use of the explosive storage license. The
amount of the operator’s financial responsibility must be at least $1,000,000.
   (B)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners may require a higher level of
financial responsibility as a condition of an explosive storage license
depending upon the size of the facility, the location of the facility, the
types of explosives that will be accepted at the facility, the other factors
affecting the risk of an explosion and potential liability.
      (2)   The proposed licensee may demonstrate financial responsibility by
either an approved bond or an approved insurance policy. The licensee shall
maintain financial responsibility as provided in this section during the
storage of explosives or other use of the explosives storage licensee.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.08 EXPLOSIVES QUANTITY; DISTANCE CRITERIA.
   (A)   No explosives may be stored unless the distance from the storage
facility to the nearest inhabited building is at least 150% of the distance
required by Ch. 5 of the Department of Defense Ammunition and Explosives Safety
Standards, as same may be amended.
   (B)   No explosives storage license shall be granted if the proposed
explosives storage activity will be located within 1,000 feet of any public
road.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 NON-CONFORMING STORAGE.
   (A)   A non-conforming explosive storage facility existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter may be continued if all federal and state laws,
statutes, standards, rules, codes and regulations regarding the manufacture,
handling, storage and use of explosives are fully complied with at the non-
conforming explosive storage facility.
   (B)   A non-conforming explosive storage facility existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter may be continued; provided that, such non-
conforming explosive storage facility shall not be expanded.
   (C)   No non-conforming explosive storage facility which has been damaged by
fire, explosion, act of God or the public enemy to the extent of more than 50%
of its value shall be restored, except in the conformity with the regulations
of this chapter.
   (D)   In the event that a non-conforming explosives storage facility is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of six months, the
non-conforming explosives storage facility shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   Transfer of the explosives storage license to other firms, companies,
corporations, persons or other entities is prohibited.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 EXPANSION PROHIBITED.
   Expansion of the explosives storage facility beyond the conditions of the
explosives storage license is prohibited.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 FEE.
   The County Board of Commissioners shall establish a fee for the explosives
storage license by a resolution of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication according to law.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating any provision
of this chapter or any provisions of an explosives storage license shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not to exceed $1,000, or imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed
90 days, and each day that the violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter,
a provision of an explosives storage license, or other official control adopted
hereunder, the Board, or any member thereof, in addition to other remedies, may
institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate such violations or threatened violations and it is the duty of the County
Attorney to institute such action.
   (C)   In the event that any action is instituted by the county against the
explosives storage licensee to enforce this chapter or any provisions of an
explosives storage license, the licensee shall pay all reasonable costs
associated with the enforcement action including attorneys’ fees as the court
may adjudge reasonable.
(Ord. 85-3, passed 2-12-1985)
CHAPTER 95: ZERO PHOSPHORUS
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Statutory authority
   
95.03   Intent and purpose
   
95.04   Jurisdiction
   
95.05   Application
   
95.06   Definitions
   
95.07   Phosphorus use restrictions
   
95.08   Fertilizer use on impervious surface
   
95.09   Effective date
   
95.99   Penalty
ZERO PHOSPHORUS
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Wright County
Zero Phosphorus Ordinance”.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.02 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in M.S. §§ 103B.301 through 103B.3355, as they may be amended from
time to time, and M.S. §§ 18C.60 through 18C.62, as they may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.03 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and restrict the application
of turf fertilizer containing phosphorus to land in the county in order to
protect the general health, safety and welfare of its citizens. The county has
a wealth of surface water and ground water resources and the quality of these
waters may be maintained and improved if the county is able to limit the amount
of phosphorus laden turf fertilizer entering surface waters as a result of
storm water runoff and other causes.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.04 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall apply to all of the county,
although cities and towns may choose to have their own ordinances governing
these activities. Any such local ordinances must not conflict with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
subchapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the protection of
the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this subchapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other applicable law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or impose higher standards
shall prevail.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The word “shall” is mandatory, and not discretionary; the word “may”
is permissive; the word “person” shall include, but not be limited to,
individuals, businesses and corporations.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (C)   Words shall be given their common usage if not defined.
   (D)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the neuter and
vice-versa.
   (E)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   BOARD. Includes the COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, the BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS or any other word or words meaning the Wright County Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   TURF. Non-crop land planted in closely mowed, managed grasses
including, but not limited to, residential and multi-family residential
property, commercial and industrial property, private golf courses and property
owned by federal, state or local units of government, including parks,
recreation areas and public golf courses. TURF does not mean pasture, hayland,
hay, turf grown on turf farms or any other form of agricultural production.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.07 PHOSPHORUS USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A person may not apply a fertilizer containing the plant nutrient
phosphorus to turf in the county, except under conditions listed in division
(B) below.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply when:
      (1)   A tissue, soil, or other test by a laboratory or method approved by
the state’s Department of Agriculture and performed within the last three years
indicates that the level of available phosphorus in the soil is insufficient to
support healthy turf growth;
      (2)   The property owner or an agent of the property owner is first
establishing turf via seed or sod procedures, and only during the first growing
season; or
      (3)   The fertilizer containing the plant food phosphorus is used on a
golf course under the direction of a person licensed, certified or approved by
an organization with an on-going training program approved by the state’s
Department of Agriculture.
   (C)   Applications of phosphorous fertilizer authorized under division (B)
above must not exceed rates recommended by the University of Minnesota and
approved by the state’s Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.08 FERTILIZER USE ON IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
   A person may not apply a fertilizer to an impervious surface. Fertilizer
released on an impervious surface must be immediately contained and either
legally applied to turf or any other legal site or returned to the original or
other appropriate container. For the purposes of this section, IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE means a highway, street, sidewalk, parking lot, driveway or other
material that prevents infiltration of water into the soil.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter was in full force and effect on 8-1-2004.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter is a petty misdemeanor.
   (B)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, the County Board of
Commissioners may request that the County Attorney institute appropriate
actions or proceedings, including the seeking of injunctive relief, to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations. All costs incurred for such
enforcement actions may be recovered by the county in a civil action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. These remedies may be imposed upon a person in
addition to or separate from enforcement actions under division (A) above.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 1-20-2004)
CHAPTER 96: BUFFER REGULATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Statutory authorization and policy
   
96.02   Definitions and general provisions
   
96.03   Jurisdiction
   
96.04   Buffer requirements
   
96.05   Compliance determinations
 
   
96.99   Enforcement
§ 96.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND POLICY.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This buffer ordinance is adopted pursuant to
the authorization and policies contained in M.S. § 103F.48, the buffer law, and
the county planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 394.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of the county to:
      (1)   Provide for riparian vegetated buffers and water quality practices
to achieve the following purposes:
         (a)   Protect state water resources from erosion and runoff pollution;
         (b)   Stabilize soils, shores and banks; and
         (c)   Protect or provide riparian corridors;
      (2)   Coordinate the implementation and enforcement of the water
resources riparian protection requirements of M.S. § 103F.48 with the shoreland
management rules and ordinances adopted under the authority of M.S. §§ 103F.201
to 103F.227 and the management of public drainage systems established under
M.S. Ch. 103E where applicable; and
      (3)   Provide efficient and effective direction to landowners and
protection of surface water quality and related land resources.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this chapter shall be interpreted to give them the same meaning they have in
common usage and to give this chapter it's most reasonable application. For the
purpose of this chapter, the words MUST and SHALL are mandatory and not
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, are measured
horizontally.
      (1)   APO. The administrative penalty order issued pursuant to M.S. §
103F.48, subd. 7 and M.S. § 103B.101, subd. 12a.
      (2)   BUFFER. Has the meaning provided in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 1(c).
      (3)   BUFFER PROTECTION MAP. Has the meaning provided in M.S. § 103F.48,
subd. 1(d) and which are available on the Department of Natural Resources
website.
      (4)   BWSR. The Board of Water and Soil Resources.
      (5)   CULTIVATION FARMING. Farming practices that disturb root or soil
structure or that impair the viability of perennial vegetation due to cutting
or harvesting near the soil surface.
      (6)   DRAINAGE AUTHORITY. Has the meaning provided in M.S. § 103E.005,
subd. 9.
      (7)   LANDOWNER. The holder of the fee title, the holder's agents or
assigns, any lessee, licensee, or operator of the real property and includes
all land occupiers as defined by M.S. § 103F.401, subd. 7 or any other party
conducting farming activities on or exercising control over the real property.
      (8)   LOCAL WATER MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY. Has the meaning provided in M.S.
§ 103F.48, subd. 1(g).
      (9)   NORMAL WATER LEVEL. The level evidenced by the long-term presence
of surface water as indicated directly by hvdrophytic plants or hvdric soils or
indirectly determined via hydrologjcal models or analysis.
      (10)   PARCEL. A unit of real property that has been given a tax
identification number maintained by the county.
      (11)   PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Has the meaning given to DRAINAGE SYSTEM
in M.S. § 103E.005, subd. 12.
      (12)   SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (B)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   Data sharing/management.
      (1)   The county may enter into arrangements with an SWCD, a watershed
district if applicable, BWSR and other parties with respect to the creation and
maintenance of, and access to, data concerning buffers and alternative
practices under this chapter.
      (2)   The county will manage all such data in accordance with the
Minnesota Data Practices Act and any other applicable laws.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 96.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to all waters, shown on the buffer
protection map, excluding public drainage systems for which the county is not
the drainage authority under M.S. Chapter 103E.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 96.04 BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Buffer width. Except as provided in divisions (D) and (E), a landowner
owning property adjacent to a water body identified on the buffer protection
map must establish and maintain a buffer area as follows:
      (1)   For waters shown on the buffer protection map requiring a 50 foot
width buffer, the buffer width will be 50 foot average and 30 foot minimum
width as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 3 and as measured according to
division (B); and
      (2)   For waters shown on the buffer protection map requiring a 16.5 foot
minimum width buffer, the buffer width will be 16.5 feet as provided in M.S. §
103F.48, subd. 3 and as measured according to division (B). This section
applies only if the county is the drainage authority.
   (B)   Measurement.
      (1)   The width of any required buffer on land adjacent to a water
requiring a 50 foot average width and a 30 foot minimum width buffer shall be
measured from the top or crown of the bank. Where there is no defined bank,
measurement must be from the edge of the normal water level as provided in M.S.
§ 103F.48, subd. 3(c).
      (2)   The width of any required buffer on land adjacent to a water
requiring a 16.5 foot minimum width buffer shall be measured in the same manner
as for measuring the vegetated grass strip under M.S.§ 103E.021, subd. 1 as
provided in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 3(c).
   (C)   Use of buffer area. Except as provided in divisions (D) and (E) a
buffer as defined in this ordinance may not be put to any use, included but not
limited to cultivation farming, which would remove or prevent the permanent
growth of perennial vegetation.
   (D)   Exemptions. The requirement of division (A) does not apply to land
that is exempted from the water resources riparian protection requirements
under M.S. §103F.48, subd. 5.
   (E)   Non-conformity. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance
or regulation imposes greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of
such shall be controlling. The continuation of non-conformities provided for by
M.S. §§ 394 and 462 shall not apply to compliance with this chapter and M.S. §
103F.48.
   (F)   Alternative practices. As provided in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 3(b) an
owner of land that is used for cultivation farming may demonstrate compliance
with §
96.04(A) by establishing and maintaining an alternative riparian water quality
practice(s), or combination of structural, vegetative, and management practice
(s) which provide water quality protection comparable to the water quality
protection provided by a required buffer as defined in §
96.04(A) to (C). The adequacy of any alternative practice allowed under this
section shall be based on:
      (1)   The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Field Office
Technical Guide (FOTG):
      (2)   Common alternative practices adopted and published by BWSR;
      (3)   Practices based on local conditions approved by the SWCD that are
consistent with the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Field Office
Technical Guide (FOTG); or
      (4)   Other practices adopted by BWSR.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 96.05 COMPLIANCE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance determinations. Compliance with the buffer requirements set
forth in §
96.04 will be determined by the SWCD on a parcel by parcel basis. The
compliance status of each bank, or edge of a waterbody on an individual parcel
will be determined independently.
   (B)   Investigation and notification of non-compliance. When the county
identifies a potential noncompliance with the buffer requirements or receives a
third party complaint from a private individual or entity, or from another
public agency, it may consult with the SWCD to determine the appropriate course
of action to document compliance status. This may include communication with
the landowner, inspection or other appropriate steps necessary to verify the
compliance status of the parcel. On the basis of the evidence gathered in this
process, the SWCD may issue a notification of noncompliance to the county. If
the SWCD does not issue such a notification, the county will not pursue a
compliance or enforcement action under M.S. § 103F.48 and §
96.99(B).
      (1)   At any time during the process set forth in division (B) and (C),
the landowner may provide documentation of compliance to the SWCD.
      (2)   Compliance determination. The SWCD may evaluate the available
documentation, and/or evaluate and/or inspect the buffer and/or alternative
practices to determine if the parcel is in compliance. Upon completion of the
evaluation and/or inspection the SWCD shall issue a written compliance
determination to the landowner, the county and BWSR. The SWCD may also issue a
validation of compliance if applicable and requested by the landowner.
   (C)   Corrective action notice. 
      (1)   On receipt of an SWCD notification of noncompliance, the county
will issue the landowner a corrective action notice that will:
         (a)   Include a list of corrective actions needed to come into
compliance with the requirements of M.S. § 103F.48;
         (b)   Provide a timeline for complying with the corrective action
notice;
         (c)   Provide a compliance standard against which the county will
judge the corrective action; and
         (d)   Include a statement that failure to respond to this notice may
result in the assessment of criminal, civil or administrative penalties.
      (2)   The county may send the landowner a combined corrective action
notice and APO as provided in §
96.99(B) so long as the combined notice/APQ includes all the required elements
of both.
      (3)   The county shall transmit the corrective action notice by either
personal service to the landowner or by depositing the same in the U.S. Mail.
If service is made by U.S. mail, the document is deemed received three business
days after the notice was placed in the U.S. mail. Failure of actual receipt of
a corrective action notice that has either been personally served or served by
depositing the same in the U.S. Mail shall not be deemed a defense in an
enforcement proceeding under §
96.99. The county shall also send a copy of the notice to the SWCD and BWSR.
      (4)   Counties may modify the corrective actions and timeline for
compliance, in accordance with division (B), to extend the compliance timeline
for a modification that imposes a substantial new action or significantly
accelerates the completion date for an action.
   (D)   At any time after receipt of a corrective action notice, the landowner
may provide documentation of compliance to the county. In addition, the
landowner may supply information to the county or the SWCD in support of a
request to modify a corrective action or the timeline for compliance. On the
basis of any such submittal or at its own discretion, the county may make a
written modification to the corrective action notice or timeline for
compliance. The county should also make a written determination documenting
whether the non-compliance has been fully corrected. Any such modification of a
compliance determination will be served on the landowner in the manner provided
for in §
96.05(C). The county shall provide the SWCD and BWSR a written copy of any
modification made pursuant to this provision.
   (E)   The SWCD may, after an evaluation of the evidence documenting
compliance submitted by the landowner, issue a written validation of compliance
if requested by the landowner. Upon receipt by the County of a written
compliance determination issued by the SWCD. the corrective action notice will
be deemed withdrawn for the purpose of §
96.99, and the subject property will not be subject to enforcement under that
section.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 96.99 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Failure to comply with a corrective action notice issued under §
96.05. The county may, at its own discretion, elect to pursue the failure to
comply with a corrective action notice either criminally or through an
administrative penalty order as set forth herein.
      (1)   Failure to comply with a corrective action notice issued under §
96.05 constitutes a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
      (2)   The county may issue an APO as provided for in M.S. §§ 103F.48,
subd. 7(b) and (c) and 103B.101, subd. 12a to a landowner who has failed to
take the corrective action set forth in the corrective action notice. For the
APO to be effective it must be served on the landowner together with a copy of
the corrective action notice or alternatively the county may serve the
landowner with a combined corrective action notice and APO so long as the
combined notice/APO includes all the elements of both. Service is effective
either by personal service or by depositing the documents set forth herein in
the U.S. Mail. Any penalty assessed in the APO shall continue to accrue until
the violation is corrected as provided in the corrective action notice and APO.
   (B)   Administrative penalty order (APO).
      (1)   Initial violation. The penalty for a landowner on a single parcel
that has not previously been the subject of an APO issued by the county shall
be:
         (a)   $0 for 11 months after issuance of the corrective action notice:
         (b)   $50 per parcel per month for the first six months (180 days)
following the time period in division (a); and
         (c)   $200 per parcel per month after six months (180 days) following
the time period in division (b).
      (2)   Repeat violation. The penalty for a landowner on a single parcel
that has previously been the subject of an APO issued by the county shall be:
         (a)   $50 per parcel per day for 180 days after issuance of the
corrective action notice; and
         (b)   $200 per parcel per dav for after 180 days following the time
period in division (a).
      (3)   Ongoing penalty assessment. Any penalty assessed under this section
shall continue until the corrective action notice has been satisfied.
      (4)   APO. To be valid the APO shall include, at a minimum:
         (a)   The facts constituting the violation of the riparian protection
and water quality practices requirements set forth in this division (4) of this
section or M.S. §103F.48:
         (b)   The specific statute and/or ordinance section(s) that has/have
been violated;
         (c)   A written description of prior efforts to work with the
landowner to resolve the violation;
         (d)   The amount of the penalty to be imposed;
         (e)   The date the penalty will begin to accrue;
         (f)   The date that payment of the penalty is due;
         (g)   The date by which all or part of the penalty may be forgiven if
the landowner has/have complied with the corrective action notice; and
         (h)   A statement of the landowner's right to appeal the APO.
      (5)   All or part of the penalty may be forgiven based on the correction
of the noncompliance by the date specified in the APO by the landowner as
provided in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 7(d).
      (6)   A copy of the APO must be sent to the SWCD and BWSR.
      (7)   An APO issued under this section may be appealed to the BWSR within
30 days of receipt by the landowner in accordance with the requirements set for
the in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 9. Any APO that is not appealed within the 30 day
period shall be deemed final.
   (C)   Administrative penalty order procedures.
      (1)   Statute of limitations. According to M.S. § 541.07, the county has
two years in which to commence an APO action after the date the violation is
discovered. The goal is to complete the action as soon as reasonably practical,
recognizing that situations for which data must be gathered, field
investigations must be completed and/or modeling must be performed will require
adequate time to complete the work and communicate with the landowner involved.
      (2)   Compliance verification. 
         (a)   Once a landowner has submitted written evidence of correction of
the violation set forth in the notice of compliance, compliance must be
verified. The county will:
            1.   Review and evaluate all information related to the APO to
determine if the violation has been corrected;
            2.   Verify compliance bv site visit, re-inspection, examination of
documentation, or other means as may be reasonable under the facts of the case;
and
            3.   Document compliance verification.
         (b)   The county may consult with the SWCD when conducting a
compliance verification.
      (3)   Right to appeal. Within 30 days after receipt of the APO, a
landowner mav appeal the terms and conditions of an APO issued by a county to
BWSR as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, subd. 9. The appeal must be in writing and
must include a copy of the APO that is being appealed, the basis for the appeal
and any supporting evidence. The appeal may be submitted personally, bv U.S.
mail, or electronically, to the Executive Director of BWSR.
      (4)   Penalty due. 
         (a)   Unless the landowner appeals the APO as provided in division (C)
(3) the penalty specified in the APO becomes immediately due and payable to the
county as set forth in the APO. If. however, the landowner submits written
documentation that the violations has been corrected prior to the time the
penalty becomes due and payable the county shall verify compliance and adjust
the penalty to an amount the landowner would have owed had the penalty been
paid on the date the landowner submitted written documentation of compliance.
Written documentation of compliance may include a written validation of
compliance issued by the SWCD.
         (b)   However, if the County determines the violation was not fullv
corrected, the County shall notify the landowner bv issuing a written letter of
determination and depositing it in the U.S. Mail. Any determination sent bv
U.S. Mail shall be deemed received three business days after the letter of
determination has been deposited in the U.S. Mail. The landowner shall have an
additional 20 days after receipt of the letter of determination to pay the
penalty or the time period specified in the APO as issued, whichever is later.
The penalty will continue to accrue until the violation is corrected as
provided in the corrective action notice and APO.
      (5)   Referral for collection of penalty. All penalties and interest
assessed under an APO must be paid by the landowner within the time specified
in this section. All payments shall be made payable to the county. Any penalty
or interest not received in the specified time may be collected by the county
using any lawful means.
      (6)   Reporting and documentation. The county shall maintain the
following records for any potential violation of the riparian protection and
water quality practices requirements. Said records shall include but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   The cause of the violation;
         (b)   The magnitude and duration of the violation;
         (c)   Documentation showing whether the violation presents an actual
or imminent risk to public health and safety;
         (d)   Documentation showing whether the violation has the potential to
harm to the natural resources of the state;
         (e)   A record of past violations;
         (f)   Efforts by the SWCD, County, Watershed District or BWSR to
assist the responsible party or parties to become compliant, including written
and oral communications with the responsible party or parties ; and
         (g)   Past and present corrective action efforts by the responsible
party or parties.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 6-5-2018)
CHAPTER 97: CANNABIS REGULATION
Section
   
97.01   Purpose, intent, and statutory authority
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Jurisdiction
   
97.04   Prohibited acts
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE, INTENT, AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose and intent.
      (1)   This chapter is adopted by the Wright County Commissioners for the
purpose of protecting public health and safety by regulating the use of
cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within Wright County.
      (2)   By enacting 2023 Session Law, Chapter 63, H. F. No. 100
[hereinafter referred to "state legislation"], the Minnesota Legislature passed
the Adult-Use Cannabis Bill. Under that bill, the adult use, possession and
personal growing of cannabis became legal on August 1, 2023.
      (3)   State legislation authorizes adoption of a local ordinance
establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for public use of cannabis.
      (4)   Wright County (hereinafter "the county") recognizes the risks that
unintended access and use of cannabis products and exposure to cannabis and its
effects present to the health, welfare, and safety of youth and the general
public in Wright County.
      (5)   State legislation authorizes adoption of ordinances to regulate
actual or potential threats to the public health. The county wishes to be
proactive in protecting public health and safety by enacting regulations that
will mitigate threats presented to the public and public health by the public
use of cannabis.
   (B)   Statutory authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to 2023 Session
Law, Chapter 63, H. F. No. 100 [hereinafter referred to "state legislation"];
M.S. § 342.01; M.S. § 342.09 subd. l(b) or successor statute; M.S. § 342.09,
subd. 1(b)(9) or successor statute; M.S. § 342.09 subd. l(a)(7) or successor
statute; and M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, or successor statute; and M.S. §
145A.05, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 8-15-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Petty misdemeanor, see M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as it may be amended from
time to time
   Public health, see M.S. § 145A.05, subds. 1 and 7, as it may be amended from
time to time
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office. ADULT-
USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts,
or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing
or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration
of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
      (2)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
      (3)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS does not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid;
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, theaters, restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common
areas in buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places
of public accommodation.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, refreshment, entertainment,
recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
      EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC PLACE or PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. "A public
place" or "a place of public accommodation" does not include the following:
         (1)   A private residence, including the individual's curtilage or
yard.
         (2)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public,
unless the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
         (3)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit
on-site consumption.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-
derived consumer products. SMOKING includes carrying or using an activated
electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol
or vapor from the product.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 97.03 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of Wright
County.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 97.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult
use cannabis products.
   (B)   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products in any
location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 8-15-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Use in public, see M.S. § 152.0263, M.S. § 342.09, subd. 1(b)(9), as it may
be amended from time to time.
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor having a fine
payable up to $300. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the county from seeking
prosecution for an alleged violation.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 8-15-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
111.   AGGREGATE REMOVAL TAX
      
112.   CANNABIS REGULATION AND REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 110: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Authority
   
110.002   Purpose
   
110.003   Definitions and interpretations
   
110.004   Prohibited sales
   
110.005   Vending machines
   
110.006   Self-service display
   
110.007   Responsibility
   
110.008   Compliance checks and inspections
   
110.009   Applicability
   
110.010   Conformity with other laws
   
110.011   Effective date
Licensing Provisions
   
110.025   License required
   
110.026   Application
   
110.027   Action
   
110.028   Term
   
110.029   Revocation or suspension
   
110.030   Transfers
   
110.031   Moveable place of business
   
110.032   Display
   
110.033   Renewals
   
110.034   Fees
   
110.035   Basis for denial of license
Illegal Acts
   
110.050   Generally
   
110.051   Illegal sales
   
110.052   Illegal possession
   
110.053   Illegal use
   
110.054   Illegal procurement
   
110.055   False identification
   
110.056   Exceptions and defenses
   
110.057   Tobacco product shops
Violations
   
110.070   Notice
   
110.071   Reserved
   
110.072   Hearing panel
   
110.073   Decision
   
110.074   Appeals
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority and pursuant to the mandate of
M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, pertaining to municipal
tobacco licenses.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings of fact and purpose. Because the county recognizes that the
sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery
devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products to persons under the age of
21 violates both state and federal law; and because studies, which the county
accepts and adopts, have shown that high school use of any commercial tobacco
product has increased to 27.6% in Minnesota; and because nearly 90% of people
who smoke begin smoking before they have reached the age of 18 years, and that
almost no one starts smoking after age 25; and because marketing analysis,
public health research, and commercial tobacco industry documents reveal that
tobacco companies have used menthol, mint, fruit, candy, and alcohol flavors as
a way to target youth and young adults and that the presence of such flavors
can make it more difficult to quit; and because studies show that youth and
young adults are especially susceptible to commercial tobacco product
availability, advertising, and price promotions at tobacco retail environments;
and because commercial tobacco use has been shown to be the cause of many
serious health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all
levels of government, this chapter is intended to regulate the sale of
commercial tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and
nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of enforcing and
furthering existing laws, to protect youth and young adults against the serious
health effects associated with use and initiation, and to further the official
public policy of the state to prevent young people from starting to smoke, as
stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   (1)   In making these findings, the County Board accepts the
conclusions and recommendations of:
         (a)   The U.S. Surgeon General reports, E-cigarette Use Among Youth
and Young Adults (2016), The Health Consequences of Smoking - 50 Years of
Progress (2014) and Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth and Young Adults (2012);
         (b)   The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in their studies,
Tobacco Use Among Middle and High School Students - United States, 2011-2015
(2016), and Selected Cigarette Smoking Initiation and Quitting Behaviors Among
High School Students, United States, 1997(1998); and
         (c)   The following scholars in these scientific journals:
            1.   Chen, J., & Millar, W. J. (1998). Age of smoking initiation:
implications for quitting. Health Reports, 9(4), 39-46;
            2.   D'Avanzo, B., La Vecchia, C., & Negri, E. (1994). Age at
starting smoking and number of cigarettes smoked. Annals of Epidemiology, 4(6),
455-459;
            3.   Everett, S. A., Warren, C. W., Sharp, D., Kann, L., Husten, C.
G., & Crossett, L. S. (1999). Initiation of cigarette smoking and subsequent
smoking behavior among U.S. high school students. Preventive Medicine, 29(5),
327-333;
            4.   Giovino, G. A. (2002). Epidemiology of tobacco use in the
United States. Oncogene, 21(48), 7326-7340;
            5.   Khuder, S. A., Dayal, H. H., & Mutgi, A. B. (1999). Age at
smoking onset and its effect on smoking cessation. Addictive Behaviors, 24(5),
673-077;
            6.   Luke, D. A., Hammond, R. A., Combs, T., Sorg, A., Kasman, M.,
Mack-Crane, A., Henriksen, L. (2017). Tobacco Town: Computational Modeling of
Policy Options to Reduce Tobacco Retailer Density. American Journal of Public
Health, 107(5), 740-746;
            7.   Minnesota Department of Health. (2020). Data Highlights from
the 2019 Minnesota Youth Tobacco Survey. Saint Paul, MN;
            8.   Tobacco Control Legal Consortium. (2006). The Verdict Is In:
Findings from United States v. Philip Morris, The Hazards of Smoking.
University of California San Francisco. Truth Tobacco Industry Documents,
https://www.industrydocumentslibrary.ucsf.edu/tobacco; and
            9.   Xu, X., Bishop, E. E., Kennedy, S. M., Simpson, S. A., &
Pechacek, T. F. (2015) Annual healthcare spending attributable to cigarette
smoking: an update. American Journal of Preventive Medicine. 48(3), 326-333.
      (2)   Copies of which are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.003 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term SHALL means mandatory
and the term MAY means permissive. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   (A)   BUSINESS. A limited liability company, whether domestic or foreign; a
registered limited liability partnership, whether domestic or foreign; a
partnership; a limited partnership; a corporation, including a foreign,
domestic, or nonprofit corporation; a trust; occupation, employment or
enterprise, any other business organization, wherein merchandise is exhibited,
stored, sold or where services are offered for compensation.
   (B)   CANNABINOID. Any of the chemical constituents of hemp plants or
cannabis plants that are naturally occurring, biologically active, and act on
the cannabinoid receptors of the brain. CANNABINOID includes but is not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol.
   (C)   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A cannabis product, a hemp-derived consumer
product, or a lower-potency hemp edible.
   (D)   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a
cannabis plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical
cannabis flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant
parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   (E)   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any
kind that are knowingly or intentionally used primarily in:
      (1)   Manufacturing cannabis products;
      (2)   Ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis flower or
cannabis products into the human body; and
      (3)   Testing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   (F)   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that are
growing or have not been harvested and have a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   (G)   CANNABIS PRODUCT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      (2)   CANNABIS PRODUCT includes adult-use cannabis products, including
but not limited to edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products.
CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include cannabis flower, artificially derived
cannabinoid, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp- derived consumer products, or
hemp-derived topical products.
   (H)   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set
forth in 16 C.F.R. § 1700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was
tested in accordance with the method described in 16 C.F.R. § 1700.20, as in
effect on January 1, 2015.
   (I)   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the county uses to investigate and
ensure that those authorized to sell licensed products are following and
complying with the requirements of state law through this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by the county or other units of governments for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by state and federal
laws, or for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws
and regulations relating to licensed products.
   (J)   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail business that provides the public with a
convenient location to quickly purchase a wide variety of non-tobacco
consumable products and services, generally food and gasoline. Convenience
stores have the following characteristics:
      (1)   Derive less than 25% of gross revenue from the sale of cannabinoid
products, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories;
      (2)   Off-street parking or convenient pedestrian access on or adjacent
to a public transit route;
      (3)   Extended hours of operation in excess of 16 hours per day, seven
days a week;
      (4)   Offer at least 500 non-tobacco stock keeping units; and
      (5)   The non-tobacco product mix includes grocery items and also
includes items from the following groups: beverages, preheated edible products,
snacks and confectionery.
   (K)   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering a
cannabinoid, nicotine, lobelia or any other substance, whether natural or
synthetic, intended for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or
vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited
to, devices manufactured, marketed, or sold as electronic cigarettes,
electronic cigars, electronic pipes, vape pens, modes, tank systems, or under
any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes any
component part of a product, whether or not sold separately. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE excludes drugs, devices, or combination products, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, that are
authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration and also
excludes electronic delivery devices that are sold exclusively by a holder of a
cannabis retailer license or a medical cannabis retailer.
   (L)   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
      (1)   The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco product wrapped
individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED tobacco and tobacco products shall
include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single bags or cans of
loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging or snuff or
chewing tobacco.
      (2)   Cartons or other packaging containing more than a single pack or
other container as described herein shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY
PACKAGED.
   (M)   LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to any tobacco product,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product.
   (N)   LICENSING OFFICIAL. The individual appointed or designated by the
county to administer and enforce licensing requirements as outlined in this
chapter. The licensing official, their department and designees, are
responsible for processing applications, issuing licenses, ensuring compliance
with applicable regulations, and have the authority to impose penalties or
sanctions for violations.
   (O)   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to single or individually
packaged cigars or cigarettes, or any other licensed product that has been
removed from its intended retail packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES does
not include individual cigars with a retail sales price, after any coupons,
multipack or buy-one-get-one promotions, or any other discounts are applied and
prior to applicable sales taxes being imposed, of at least $2.75 per cigar.
   (P)   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid,
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   (Q)   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized
for over-the-counter sales transactions.
   (R)   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or
delivering nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, whether natural
or synthetic, or any part of such a product, that is not tobacco or an
electronic delivery device as defined in this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA
DELIVERY PRODUCT does not include any nicotine cessation product that has been
authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for sale
as "drugs," "devices," or "combination products," as defined in the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   (S)   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a limited liability company,
whether domestic or foreign; a registered limited liability partnership,
whether domestic or foreign; a partnership; a limited partnership; a
corporation, including a foreign, domestic, or nonprofit corporation; a trust;
or any other business organization.
   (T)   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any licensed products are available for sale to
the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to,
grocery stores, convenience stores and restaurants.
   (U)   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other
consideration.
   (V)   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. Any open displays of licensed products in any
manner where any person shall have access to the licensed products, without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
licensed products between the customer and the licensee or employee. SELF-
SERVICE DISPLAY merchandising shall not include vending machines.
   (W)   TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or
nicotine, whether natural or synthetic, that is intended for human consumption,
whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or
ingested by any other means, or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco
product, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, blunts; cigars; cheroots;
stogies; perigue; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine
cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco. TOBACCO excludes
any drugs, devices, or combination products, as those terms are defined in the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration.
   (X)   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic
delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery products as those terms are
defined in this section.
   (Y)   TOBACCO PRODUCTS SHOP. A retail establishment with an entrance door
opening directly to the outside, or into a common building area, that derives
at least 25% of its gross revenue from the sale of tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes,
and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and related smoking accessories.
TOBACCO
PRODUCTS SHOP does not include a tobacco department or section of any
individual business establishment with any type of food, restaurant, or on-sale
liquor license, provided the sale of tobacco or tobacco products does not
exceed 25% of gross revenue.
   (Z)   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as pipe,
electronic delivery device, rolling papers or other device intentionally
designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables the chewing,
sniffing, smoking, or inhalation of aerosol or vapor of tobacco or tobacco
product. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES includes components of tobacco-related devices
that may be marketed or sold separately.
   (AA)   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other
type of device which dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money,
tokens or other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking
to purchase the licensed products.
   (BB)   YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY. Any facility with residents, customers,
visitors, or inhabitants of which 25% or more are regularly under the age of 21
or that primarily sells, rents, or offers services or products that are
consumed or used primarily by persons under the age of 21. YOUTH-ORIENTED
FACILITY includes, but is not limited to, childcare providers and facilities,
schools, playgrounds, recreation centers, and parks.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed
11-30-2021; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.004 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices and electronic
delivery devices:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods unless allowed under §
110.006(B) of this chapter;
   (D)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation; or
   (E)   By means of loosies as defined.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.005 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless persons under the age of 21 are at all times prohibited
from entering the licensed establishment.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.006 SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY.
   The open display of licensed products in a retail establishment in any
manner where any person has access to the licensed products without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee and where
a physical exchange of the licensed product from the licensee or the licensee's
employee to the customer is not required in order to access the licensed
products.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 24-3, passed
11-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.007 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions
of their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices and electronic delivery devices on the licensed premises, and
the sale of such an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the
license holder.
   (B)   All licensees are responsible for ensuring proper training of
employees. Upon request, the local public health authority may provide training
resources.
   (C)   All licensees are responsible for paying any administrative penalties
imposed upon them through the action of any employee, and are prohibited from
making any employee reimburse or pay any administrative penalty imposed,
whether directly or through payroll deduction.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the county
from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this
chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 21-4, passed 11-30-2021)
§ 110.008 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by an authorized
county official during regular business hours. From time to time, but at least
once per year, the county shall conduct compliance checks to ensure compliance
with all provisions of this chapter. In accordance with state law, the county
will conduct an annual compliance check that involves the participation of
persons over the age of 17 years but less than 21 years. The county may conduct
educational compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their
parents or guardians for any person under the age of 18 to participate in a
compliance check. No persons used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a
false identification misrepresenting the person's age, and all persons lawfully
engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the person's age
asked by the licensee or their employee and shall produce any identification,
if any exists, for which they are asked.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed
11-30-2021; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.009 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all locations in the county where licensed
products are sold.
   (B)   It is further provided, however, that in any city or township which
elects to license and regulate the retail sale of tobacco, pursuant to M.S. §
461.12, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time, those locations within
such city or township shall be exempt from the coverage of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.010 CONFORMITY WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   The remedies and administrative penalties listed in this chapter are
not exclusive and are in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (B)   This chapter specifically does not preclude criminal prosecution under
the laws of the state relating to the use, possession or sale of tobacco.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.011 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter took effect on 6-1-1998.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.025 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly or by means of any device, offer or
expose for sale, sell, exchange, barter, dispose of or give away, or cause to
be offered or exposed for sale, exchanged, bartered, disposed of or given away,
any licensed products, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices at any place
in the county without being licensed under this chapter. The sale of licensed
products by vending machine shall require a license under this chapter. In the
case of a vending machine, the license shall be held by the person or
organization which has control and supervision of the premises. Licenses shall
be obtained from the county unless located within a town or a home rule charter
or statutory city that has retained licensing authority under M.S. § 461.12,
subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.026 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a license to sell licensed products shall be made
on a form provided by the county, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The full name of the applicant, the applicant’s business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, whether the license is for a tobacco products shop, and the premises
for which the license is sought; and
      (2)   The applicant on a new license shall state the percentage of
estimated gross revenue to be derived from the sale of tobacco and tobacco-
related products on their application; and
      (3)   The applicant for a renewal license shall state the actual
percentage of gross revenue from the sale of tobacco and tobacco-related
products on their application; and
      (4)   As part of any application, the county may require an original
signed letter from a certified public accountant, stating the percentage of
gross revenue derived from the sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products,
prior to issuing a license to a person or business located within the setback
requirement outlined in §
110.035(B)(7), or from any applicant suspected of being a tobacco products
shop. Any letter from a certified public accountant must be based upon an
actual review of the financial records for the licensee from the 12 months
prior to making application, and shall state the dates and sources of the
financial records reviewed; and
      (5)   Retail sales of tobacco at more than one premises, even upon the
same real property or under common ownership, shall require multiple licenses;
and
      (6)   Any retail establishment located within the setback requirement
outlined in §
110.035(B)(7) must provide financial records documenting its annual sales, upon
request by the county or as required in §
110.035; and
      (7)   Any additional information the county deems necessary.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of a fee pursuant
to §
110.034 of this chapter, the county shall forward the application to the County
Board of Commissioners for action at its next regularly scheduled Board
meeting. If the county shall determine that an application is incomplete, the
application shall be returned with notice of the information necessary to make
the application complete.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed
11-30-2021; Ord. 22-5, passed 2-7-2023; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.027 ACTION.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners may either approve or deny the
license, or it may delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary
to complete any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems
necessary.
   (B)   (1)   If the County Board of Commissioners shall approve the license,
the Finance Director shall issue the license to the applicant.
      (2)   If the County Board of Commissioners denies the license, the notice
of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the
applicant’s right to appeal the decision.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 21-4, passed 11-30-2021)
§ 110.028 TERM.
   Licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one calendar year
effective on January 1 of every year or in the event an application for the
current calendar year is received or issued after January 1, from the date of
issuance. Licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of
each year.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 24-3, passed
11-5-2024)
§ 110.029 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended as
provided in §§
110.070 through
110.074 and
110.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.030 TRANSFERS.
   All licenses under this chapter shall be valid only at the premises for
which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was
issued. No transfer of any license to another premises or person shall be
valid.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.031 MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No license shall be issued to a moveable place of business. Only fixed
retail establishments shall be eligible to be licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.032 DISPLAY.
   (A)   Licenses. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (B)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age, age verification requirement,
and possible penalties for underage sales must be posted prominently and in
plain view at all times at each location where licensed products are offered
for sale. The required signage, which may be provided to the licensee by the
County Health and Human Services upon request, must be posted in a manner that
is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 21-4, passed 11-30-2021)
§ 110.033 RENEWALS.
   The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be handled in the
same manner as the original application. The issuance of a license issued under
this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 110.034 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. License fees
shall be prorated for those licenses issued for less than a full calendar year.
License fees shall be doubled in instances where there is a failure to obtain a
license prior to commencing retail sales of tobacco.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 110.035 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
county must deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a
person, it may be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for
the license under this section.
   (B)   Grounds for denial are:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been penalized within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to licensed products;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products revoked
within the preceding 12 months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information;
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding such a license;
      (6)   The applicant has a license at the same premises for the sale of
any cannabinoid, cannabinoid product, or cannabis product except that an
applicant may have a license at the same premises for the sale of lower-potency
hemp edibles;
      (7)   The applicant has a license at the same premises for cannabis
retailer, cannabis delivery license, cannabis microbusiness, or a cannabis
mezzobusiness;
      (8)   The applicant or licensee has a license history that does not
warrant the confidence of the licensing official that the applicant or licensee
will operate lawfully based on prior violations or failures to comply with any
applicable regulatory or administrative provisions of state or local laws
regulating tobacco or cannabis or rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto;
      (9)   The applicant or licensee's criminal character or criminal record
poses a threat to the regulation or control of tobacco. In doing so, the
licensing official may incorporate any findings as to residency, moral
character, and criminal character or history, including tobacco or cannabis
convictions, previously made by the any licensing authority.
      (10)   The applicant has failed to pay on a timely basis any
administrative fine levied by the county under §
110.999 of this chapter; or
      (11)   Youth-oriented facilities.
         (a)   No tobacco retail license shall be issued to a tobacco products
shop that is located within 1,000 feet of a youth-oriented facility unless the
youth-oriented facility is located on the opposite side of a county state aid
highway, state highway, or federal highway in which case the setback distance
shall be reduced to 750 feet.
         (b)   No tobacco retail license shall be issued to a business within
1,000 feet of a youth-oriented facility unless:
            1.   the youth-oriented facility is located on the opposite side of
a county state aid highway, state highway, or federal highway in which case the
setback distance shall be reduced to 750 feet; or
            2.   the business has been in operation for at least two years and
provides financial reports for the prior two years that describe the nature of
its business and itemize the products it sells. A business seeking a renewal
under this provision shall provide the most recent financial records for the
business from the prior year.
         (c)   No license shall be issued in the event an applicant fails to
provide the county with a letter from a certified public accountant as provided
in §
110.026.
         (d)   The restriction contained in division (B)(7)(a) and (b) of this
section do not apply to a convenience store or an individual business
establishment with any type of food, restaurant, fuels distributor, or on-sale
or off-sale liquor license that has a tobacco section or department, provided
the sales of licensed products do not exceed 25% of gross revenue, or any
businesses with an existing license holder who has been licensed to sell
licensed products in the same premises since October 1, 2018.
         (e)   Calculating the distance from a youth-oriented facility, as
provided in this section, shall be measured by the shortest line from the
property lot line of the space to be occupied by the proposed licensee to the
nearest property lot line of the parcel occupied by a youth-oriented facility.
         (f)   The definition of a business for purposes of §
110.035(B)(11)(b) does not include a licensed tobacco products shop.
         (g)   The restrictions outlined in this division shall not apply to
the renewal of a tobacco retail license that became nonconforming solely due to
the subsequent establishment of a youth-oriented facility within the distance
restrictions after the original license was issued. However, the holder of a
nonconforming license may not expand or alter the business in a way that would
increase its nonconforming status or otherwise violate the distance
requirements.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed
11-30-2021; Ord. 22-5, passed 2-7-2023; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
ILLEGAL ACTS
§ 110.050 GENERALLY.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts in this subchapter shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.051 ILLEGAL SALES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell,
offer, barter or otherwise provide, either directly or indirectly, any tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco-related device and electronic delivery device to any
person under the age of 21.
      (2)   Licensees must verify by means of government-issued photographic
identification containing the bearer's date of birth that the purchaser is at
least 21 years of age. Verification is not required for a person over the age
of 30. That the person appeared to be 30 years of age or older does not
constitute a defense to a violation of this division.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a licensee to sell, offer,
barter or otherwise provide a cannabis product, either directly or indirectly,
to another person.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a licensee to have in
stock or inventory at the licensed premises any cannabis product.
   (D)   For purposes of this section only, a cannabis product does not include
a lower-potency hemp edible provided the establishment is legally registered to
sell lower-potency hemp edible products.
   (E)   Sale of tobacco without instructional program. All licensees,
employees, and persons who directly or indirectly or by means of any device,
offer or expose for sale, sell, exchange, barter, dispose of or give away, or
cause to be offered or exposed for sale, exchanged, bartered, disposed of or
given away, any tobacco products or tobacco-regulated devices at any place in
the county must have first completed a training program on the legal
requirements relating to the sale of tobacco, tobacco- related devices,
electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery products and the
possible consequences for violations. A training portal will be available on
the Wright County Public Health web page that will contain the required
training program. Licensees must maintain and provide to the county
documentation demonstrating compliance at the time of renewal, or whenever
requested during the license term. Records will be randomly audited by Wright
County Public Health Staff. If after inspection, it is found that employees
have not completed the required training, the licensee will be required to come
into compliance within a time frame specified by Wright County Public Health.
Failure to come into compliance may result in an administrative fine,
suspension or revocation pursuant to §
110.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed
11-30-2021; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.052 ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of 21
to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related
devices and electronic delivery devices. This section shall not apply to
persons under the age of 21 lawfully involved in a compliance check.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 21-4, passed 11-30-2021) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.053 ILLEGAL USE.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of 21
to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related device and electronic delivery device.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 21-4, passed 11-30-2021) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.054 ILLEGAL PROCUREMENT.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of 21
to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related device and electronic delivery device, and it shall
be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain
such items on behalf of a person under the age of 21. It shall further be a
violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under the age
of 21 to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain for use any tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related device and electronic delivery device. This section
shall not apply to persons under the age of 21 lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed
11-30-2021) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.055 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age of 21
to attempt to disguise their true age by the use of a false form of
identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one on
which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 19-5, passed 9-24-2019) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.056 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this chapter for a person to
have reasonable relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
§ 110.057 TOBACCO PRODUCT SHOPS.
   The following additional regulations apply to any person or business that is
licensed as a tobacco products shop or derive 25% or more of their gross
revenue from the sale of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco or tobacco products:
   (A)   No licensee, operator or employee of a tobacco products shop shall
allow, permit, or suffer any person younger than 21 years of age, to enter or
be present upon the licensed premises. It shall be the duty of the licensee,
operator and licensee's employees to identify and ascertain the age of any such
person and to refuse admittance to any person under the age of 21.
   (B)   No person younger than 21 years of age shall be permitted to work in
or be present upon the licensed premises of a tobacco products shop.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, offer,
barter or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related
device or electronic delivery device to any person under the age of 21.
   (D)   Prior to accepting an order for any product, the licensee must
physically inspect the identification for each customer making a purchase. The
licensee must verify that each identification is valid using an electronic ID
scanner and that each customer is over the age of 21.
   (E)   It is a violation of this chapter for a licensee to operate where
tobacco, tobacco products, or electronic delivery devices are visible to
members of the public from any park, parking lot, right-of- way, street,
sidewalk, walkway, or other public space.
   (F)   It is a violation of this chapter for a licensee to display a
commercial sign in violation of any applicable municipal or county zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
VIOLATIONS
§ 110.070 NOTICE.
   Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator shall be
issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the alleged
violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her right to be
heard on the accusation.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.071 RESERVED.
§ 110.072 HEARING PANEL.
   The County of Commissioners may appoint a hearing officer to handle any
requested hearings under this subchapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.073 DECISION.
   If the County Board of Commissioners determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the Board’s reasons for finding a
violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
110.999 of this chapter, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be
provided to the accused violator. Likewise, if the County Board of
Commissioners finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, such findings shall be recorded in writing a copy of
which shall be provided to the accused violator.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.074 APPEALS.
   Appeals of any decision of the County Board of Commissioners under this
chapter shall be filed in the District Court for the county.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employees shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fine of not less than $500 for a first violation of this chapter; not less
than$1,000 for a second offense at the same licensed premises within a 36-month
period; and not less than $1,500 for a third or subsequent offense at the same
premises within a 36-month period. In addition, with a third offense within a
36-month period, the county shall suspend the license for not less than seven
days. A fourth offense within a 36-month period shall result in revocation. Any
violation of federal, state or local tobacco control laws, cigarette sales tax,
tobacco sales tax, or regulations are a violation of this chapter and shall
also subject the licensee to the administrative penalties stated herein as well
as suspension or revocation of their tobacco license.
   (B)   Other persons and unlicensed businesses. Other persons, other than
minors regulated by division (C) below, found to have violated this chapter,
shall be charged an administrative fine of not less than $50 for any violation
of this chapter. A person or business who directly or indirectly or by means of
any device, offer or expose for sale, sell, exchange, barter, dispose of or
give away, or cause to be offered or exposed for sale, exchanged, bartered,
disposed of or given away, any tobacco products, tobacco-regulated devices, or
licensed products at any place in the county without being licensed under this
chapter shall be charged a $2,000 administrative penalty for each violation.
Any violation of federal, state or local tobacco control laws, cigarette tax,
or regulations shall also subject the person or business to the administrative
penalties articulated herein.
   (C)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related
devices or electronic delivery devices may be charged an administrative fine of
at least $65 or shall be required to attend a tobacco-related education class,
diversion program, community service, or another penalty that the county
determines to be appropriate. The cost of such program shall be the
responsibility of the minor attending the program.
   (D)   Payment of fines. Any administrative fines levied by the county
pursuant to this section shall be paid within 30 days of the date of mailing
for the citation or the hearing findings issued under §§
110.070 through
110.074 of this chapter.
   (E)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who use false
identification to purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products may only be
subject to non-criminal, non-monetary civil penalties such as tobacco-related
education classes, diversion programs, community services, or another penalty
that the county determines to be appropriate.
   (F)   Continuing violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Statutory penalties. If the penalties authorized to be imposed by M.S.
§ 461.12 as it may be amended from time to time, differ from that established
in this section, then the higher penalty will prevail.
    (H)   Unlawful administrative penalty reimbursement. It shall be unlawful
for any licensee to make an employee reimburse or pay any administrative fine
imposed under division (A) herein, whether directly or through payroll
deduction. Any licensee found to have violated this provision shall be subject
to misdemeanor prosecution and an administrative fine. Nothing in this section
shall prevent an employee from seeking reimbursement or a civil action for the
unlawful withholding of wages or compensation under the state law.
   (I)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the county that sets forth the alleged
violation and administrative penalties and that informs the alleged violator of
their right to a hearing on the matter and how and where a hearing may be
requested, including a contact address and phone number.
   (J)   Hearings.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the County Administrator or other designated county officer. Failure to
properly request a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the
citation will terminate the person's right to a hearing.
      (2)   The County Administrator or other designated county officer will
set the time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and
place will be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business
days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The County Administrator will designate a hearing
officer. The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the county or an
impartial person retained by the county to conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within
ten business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer's reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the county and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the county and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in division (A)(6) of this section.
      (5)   Costs. If the citation or penalty is upheld by the hearing officer,
the county's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000
must be paid by the person requesting the hearing.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must
be filed in District Court within ten business days of the date of the
decision.
   (K)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the county from
seeking prosecution of any violation of this chapter as a misdemeanor.
   (L)   Cannabis law violations. In accordance with M.S. § 461.12, subd. 2a, a
tobacco retail license shall be suspended for no less than seven days and may
be revoked for certain cannabis-related violations on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 19-5, passed
9-24-2019; Ord. 21-4, passed 11-30-2021; Ord. 24-3, passed 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 111: AGGREGATE REMOVAL TAX
Section
   
111.01   Intent and purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Imposition of tax
   
111.04   Reporting requirements
   
111.05   Distribution of revenues
   
111.06   Provisions are accumulative
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to impose a production tax on the
removal of aggregate from pits, quarries, or deposits located within the
county; establishing reports requirements; providing penalties for failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter; and providing for the distribution
of revenues collected under this chapter, pursuant to M.S. § 298.75 (2020), as
it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any pit, deposit or quarry that is located on public or tax
forfeited property that has not been reclaimed to the applicable standards of
the jurisdiction where it is located.
   AGGREGATE MATERIAL. Non-metallic natural mineral aggregate including, but
not limited to, sand, silica sand, gravel, crushed rock, limestone, granite and
borrow, but only if the borrow is transported on a public road, street, or
highway. Aggregate material shall not include dimension stone and dimension
granite. Aggregate material must be measured or weighed after it has been
extracted from the pit, quarry, or deposit.
   BORROW. Granular borrow, consisting of durable particles of gravel and sand,
crushed quarry or mine rock, crushed gravel or stone, or any combination
thereof, the ratio of the portion passing the (#200) sieve divided by the
portion passing the (1-inch) sieve may not exceed 20% by mass.
   COUNTY. A county imposing the tax under this section on July 1, 2002, or any
other county whose board has voted after a public hearing to impose the tax
under this section and has notified the commissioner of revenue of the
imposition of the tax.
   EXTRACTION SITE. A pit, quarry, or deposit containing aggregate and any
contiguous property to the pit, quarry or deposit which is used by the operator
for stockpiling the aggregate.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, organization,
trustee, association, or other entity.
      IMPORTER. Any person who buys aggregate material produced from a county
not listed in this section under COUNTY or another state and causes the
aggregate material to be imported into Wright County.
      OPERATOR. Any person engaged in the business of removing aggregate from
the surface or subsurface of the soil, for the purpose of sale, either directly
or indirectly, through the use of the aggregate in a marketable product or
service.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 111.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The County of Wright hereby imposes an aggregate production tax shall
upon every operator a production tax of 21.5 cents per cubic yard or 15 cents
per ton of aggregate material excavated in the County of Wright. The tax shall
not be imposed on aggregate material excavated in the county until the
aggregate material is transported from the extraction site or sold, whichever
occurs first. When aggregate material is stored in a stockpile within the State
of Minnesota and a public highway, road or street is not used for transporting
the aggregate material, the tax shall not be imposed until the aggregate
material is sold, or it is transported from the stockpile site, or it is used
from the stockpile, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   Any operator who removes for sale aggregate from a pit, quarry, or
natural deposit located within the County of Wright shall pay a production tax
thereon. The tax shall be imposed when the aggregate is transported from the
extraction site, provided however, that when in the case of storage, the
stockpile is within the State of Minnesota and the highways are not used for
transporting the aggregate, the tax shall be imposed when the aggregate is
sold.
   (C)   (1)   Any importer who buys aggregate material produced from a county
other than those included in §
111.02 shall pay the production tax on the material so imported. This tax is
due when the aggregate material is imported into Wright County.
      (2)   In the event that the aggregate is transported directly from the
extraction site to a waterway, railway, or another mode of transportation other
than highway, road, or street, the tax imposed by this section shall be
apportioned equally between the county where the aggregate is extracted and the
county to which the aggregate is originally transported. If that destination is
not located in Minnesota, then the county where the aggregate was extracted
shall receive all of the proceeds of the tax.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 111.04 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   By the fourteenth day following the last day of each calendar quarter,
every operator selling aggregate removed from operator's extraction site during
said quarter, must file using the aggregate tax reporting form with the County
Finance Director a report under oath stating the quantity of aggregate so
removed. The report shall be accompanied by a remittance of the amount of tax
due. If any of the proceeds of the tax are to be apportioned as provided in §
111.03(C)(2), the operator shall also include on the report any relevant
information concerning the amount of aggregate transported, the tax, and the
county destination. The County Finance Director shall remit the tax to the
appropriate county within 30 days of the receipt of the tax by Wright County.
   (B)   If the County Finance Director has not received the report by the
fifteenth day after the last day of each calendar quarter from the operator or
importer as required by division (A) or has received an erroneous report, the
County Finance Director shall estimate the amount of tax due and notify the
operator or importer by registered mail of the amount of tax so estimated
within the next 14 days. An operator or importer may, within 30 days from the
date of mailing the notice, and upon payment of the amount of tax determined to
be due, file in the office of the County Finance Director a written statement
of objections to the amount of taxes determined to be due. The statement of
objections shall be deemed to be a petition within the meaning of M.S. Ch. 278,
as it may be amended from time to time, and shall be governed by M.S. §§ 278.02
to 278.13, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 111.05 DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES.
   All moneys collected as taxes under this ordinance shall be deposited in the
County Treasury and credited as follows, for expenditure by the County Board:
   (A)   The department of Finance and Taxpayer Services shall retain an annual
administrative fee of up to 5% of the total taxes collected in any year.
   (B)   The remaining funds shall be allocated in the following manner:
      (1)   Forty-two and one-half percent to the county road and bridge fund
for expenditure for the maintenance, construction and reconstruction of roads,
highways and bridges;
      (2)   Forty-two and one-half percent to the general fund of the city or
town in which the mine is located, or to the county, if the mine is located in
an unorganized town, to be expended for maintenance, construction and
reconstruction of roads, highways and bridges; and
      (3)   Fifteen percent to a special reserve fund which is hereby
established, for expenditure for the restoration of abandoned pits, quarries,
or deposits located within the county. If there are no abandoned pits, quarries
or deposits located within the county, this portion of the tax shall be used
for any other unmet reclamation need or for conservation or other environmental
needs.
   (C)   The County Finance Director or its duly authorized agent may examine
records, including computer records, maintained by an importer or operator and
pit owners. The term "record" includes, but is not limited to, all accounts of
an importer or operator. The County Finance Director must have access at all
reasonable times to inspect and copy all business records related to an
importer or operator's collection, transportation, and disposal of aggregate to
the extent necessary to ensure that all aggregate material production taxes
required to be paid have been remitted to the county. The records must be
maintained by the importer or operator for no less than six years.
   (D)   The Wright County Aggregate Tax Committee consists of representatives
from two townships and a city as appointed by the Wright County Board of
Commissioners, along with two Wright County Commissioners, one Wright County
Planning and Zoning Department designee, and the Wright County Finance Director
or their designee: This committee will meet annually as directed by the County
Administrator to review restoration applications as provided by the Wright
County Finance Director and make recommendations to the Wright County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 111.06 PROVISIONS ARE ACCUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative to all other laws, ordinances,
and regulations hereto passed, or which may be passed hereafter, covering any
subject matter in this chapter.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to file the report and submit payment shall result in a
penalty of $5 for each of the first 30 days, beginning on the fifteenth day
after the last day of each calendar quarter, for which the report and payment
is due and no statement of objection has been filed as provided in §
111.04, and a penalty of $10 for each subsequent day shall be assessed against
the operator or importer who is required to file the report. The penalties
imposed by this division shall be collected as part of the tax and credited to
the county revenue fund. If neither the report nor a statement of objection has
been filed after more than 60 days have elapsed from the date when the notice
was sent, the operator or importer who is required to file the report is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any operator to remove aggregate from a pit,
quarry, or deposit unless all taxes due under this chapter for the previous
reporting period have been paid or objections thereto have been filed pursuant
to §
111.04(B).
   (C)   It is a misdemeanor under this chapter for the operator or importer
who is required to file a report to file a false report with intent to evade
the tax. This provision does not alter the consequences of a violation of state
law.
(Ord. 22-3, passed 11-1-2022)
CHAPTER 112: CANNABIS REGULATION AND REGISTRATION
Section
   
112.01   Findings of fact
   
112.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Registration and operations of registered retailers
   
112.05   Fees
   
112.06   Basis for denial of registration
   
112.07   Prohibited sales and other restrictions
   
112.08   Cannabis storage requirement
   
112.09   Temporary cannabis events
   
112.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.11   Responsibility
   
112.12   Defenses
   
112.13   Violations, penalties, and administrative hearings
   
112.14   Effective date
§ 112.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   It is the intent of the County Board, in enacting this chapter, to regulate
the establishment, operations, and sales of cannabis retailers and lower-
potency hemp edible retailers located in the county.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Authority. The County Board of Commissioners is authorized to adopt
this chapter by M.S. §§ 144.417, subd. 4(a), 145A.04, 145A.05, and 152.0263,
subd. 5, and Chapters 342 and 375, and any other applicable state law, as may
be adopted or amended from time to time.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The registration requirements of this chapter govern the
regulation of cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible retailers in the county
and in any city or town located in the county that has consented to county
jurisdiction. The sections specifically enacted pursuant to the county's public
health authority apply throughout the county unless otherwise specified.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent cities and townships within the
county from adopting stricter regulations to protect people from public health
and public safety harms of the retail sale of cannabis and lower-potency hemp
edibles.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided or clearly implied by context, all terms are
given their commonly accepted definitions. For this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADVERTISEMENT. Any written or oral statement, illustration, or depiction
that is intended to promote sales of approved products or sales at a specific
cannabis business or hemp business and includes any newspaper, radio, internet
and electronic media, or television promotion; the distribution of fliers and
circulars; and the display of window and interior signs in a cannabis business.
ADVERTISEMENT does not include a fixed outdoor sign that meets the requirements
in M.S. § 342.64, subd. 2(b), as amended from time to time.
   APPROVED PRODUCTS. Any cannabis plants, cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, and lower-potency hemp edibles that are a
product category approved by the Office of Cannabis Management and that comply
with M.S. Ch. 342 and rules adopted pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342 regarding the
testing, packaging, and labeling of cannabis plants, cannabis flower, cannabis
products, artificially derived cannabinoids, and lower-potency hemp edibles.
APPROVED PRODUCTS does not include medical cannabinoid products, as defined in
M.S. Ch. 342, as amended from time to time.
   ATTRACTIVE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS. Products that are attractive to individuals
under age 21 as described in M.S. § 342.62, subd. 3, and products prohibited
under M.S. § 342.06, subd. (d), as may be amended from time to time.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, subd. 12, as amended from
time to time.
   CHILD-RESISTANT. Packaging that meets the poison prevention packaging
standards in 16 C.F.R. § 1700.15.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the county uses to investigate and ensure that
those retail establishments authorized to sell approved products and medical
cannabinoid products are following and complying with age verification
requirements and the requirements of this chapter. Compliance checks may also
be conducted by the county or other units of government for educational,
research, and training purposes or for investigating or enforcing state or
local laws and regulations relating to approved products.
   DELIVERY SALE. The sale of any approved products and medical cannabinoid
products to any person for personal consumption and not for resale when the
sale is conducted by any means other than an in-person, over-the-counter sales
transaction in a registered retail establishment. DELIVERY SALE includes but is
not limited to the sale of any approved product when the sale is conducted by
telephone, other voice transmission, mail, the internet, or app-based service.
DELIVERY SALE includes delivery by registered retail establishments or third
parties by any means, including curbside pickup.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for sale as “drugs,” “devices," or
"combination products," as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   FLAVORED PRODUCT. Any cannabis flower, cannabinoid product, hemp-derived
consumer product, or medical cannabinoid product intended to be inhaled as
smoke, aerosol, or vapor from the product that:
      (1)   Contains any added artificial, synthetic, or natural flavoring,
either in the product itself or in its components or parts;
      (2)   Presents any descriptor or depiction of flavor that would imply to
an ordinary person that the product contains flavors other than the natural
taste or smell of cannabis;
      (3)   Imparts a taste or smell, other than the taste or smell of
cannabis, that is distinguishable by an ordinary consumer prior to or during
the consumption of the product; or
      (4)   Imparts a cooling, a burning, a numbing, or another sensation
distinguishable by an ordinary consumer to impart a flavor other than cannabis
either prior to or during the consumption of the product.
   LIMITED ACCESS AREA. A building, room, or other contiguous area upon the
registered cannabis retail business premises where retail cannabis is stored,
weighed, packaged, or processed for sale, where customers are not permitted and
is under control of the registered cannabis retail business.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50, as amended
from time to time.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER. Any place of business with a license or
endorsement to sell lower-potency hemp edible products to the public from the
Office of Cannabis Management and that has a lower-potency hemp edible retail
registration from the county.
   MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, subd. 52, as
amended from time to time.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS COMBINATION BUSINESS. As described in M.S. § 342.515, as
amended from time to time.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business that is operated out of a
kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter
and that is not a fixed address or other permanent type of structure licensed
for over-the-counter sales transactions.
   PHARMACY. A place of business at which prescription drugs are prepared,
compounded, or dispensed by or under the supervision of a pharmacist and from
which related clinical pharmacy services are delivered.
   REGISTERED CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. Any cannabis business with a license or
endorsement from the Office of Cannabis Management for retail sales of approved
products or medical cannabinoid products and that has a cannabis retail
registration from a local unit of government.
   REGISTERED RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Registered cannabis retail businesses,
medical cannabis combination businesses with retail sales, and lower-potency
hemp edible retailers.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where products are available for
sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT includes, but is not limited
to, grocery stores, tobacco product shops, convenience stores, liquor stores,
gasoline service stations, bars, and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SAMPLE. Any approved products or medical cannabinoid products that are
offered free of charge or for sale at a nominal cost.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. The open display of approved products or medical
cannabinoid products in a retail establishment in any manner where any person
has access to the products without the assistance or intervention of the
registered retail establishment or its employee and where a physical exchange
of the products from the registered retail establishment or its employee is not
required to access the products.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, cannabis, or other substance, whether
natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device. SMOKING does not
include the use of traditional, or sacred, tobacco used by any American Indian,
Indigenous, and Alaska Native communities for spiritual and medicinal purposes.
   TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENT. Events described in M.S. §§ 342.39 and 342.40, as
amended from time to time, held by an individual or business with a cannabis
event organizer license granted by the Office of Cannabis Management, with
approval from the city.
   TRUE PARTY OF INTEREST. Any party with ownership or control over the
business, as defined in M.S. § 342.185, subd. 1(g), as amended from time to
time.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses products upon payment by any form by the person seeking
to purchase the product.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.04 REGISTRATION AND OPERATIONS OF REGISTERED RETAILERS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any approved
product or medical cannabinoid product without first having obtained a license
or retail endorsement to do so from the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (B)   Registration required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any
approved product or medical cannabinoid product without first being granted a
registration by the county. Operating a retail establishment without a valid
retail registration is a violation of this chapter and of M.S. § 342.22, subd.
5(e), as amended from time to time, and is subject to a civil penalty of up to
$2,000 per violation.
   (C)   Application. An application for a registration to sell approved
products and medical cannabinoid products must be made on a form provided by
the county. The application must contain the full name of the applicant and any
true parties of interest, the applicant's and true parties' residential and
business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which
the registration is sought, and any additional information the county deems
necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the county will timely
review the application. If an application is incomplete, it will be returned to
the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (D)   Action. The county shall review the application for conformance with
this chapter and all applicable state and local laws and rules, including but
not limited to compliance with local zoning code, building code, and fire code.
The county may approve or deny the application for a registration, or it may
delay action for a reasonable period of time to complete any investigation of
the application or the applicant deemed necessary. If the county approves the
application, the county will issue the registration to the applicant. If the
county denies the application, notice of the denial will be given to the
applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to appeal the decision.
   (E)   Term. All registrations issued are valid for one calendar year from
the date of issue.
   (F)   Revocation or suspension. Any registration issued may be suspended or
revoked following the procedure set forth in § 112.13(B).
   (G)   Transfers. All registrations issued are valid only on the premises for
which the registration was issued and only for the person to whom the
registration was issued. The transfer of any registration to another location
or person is prohibited.
   (H)   Display. All registrations must be posted and displayed at all times
at the registered retail establishment or medical cannabis combination business
in plain view of the general public.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a registration issued under this chapter will
be handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current registration.
   (J)   Issuance is privilege and not a right. The issuance of a registration
is a privilege and does not entitle the registration holder to an automatic
renewal of the registration.
   (K)   Maximum number of cannabis retailer registrations. No registrations
will be granted after the county or cities within the county have granted at
least one registration for every 12,500 residents in the county.
   (L)   Pharmacies ineligible for registration. No new or renewed registration
for any cannabinoid product will be granted to a pharmacy or any retail
establishment that operates an on-site pharmacy.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.05 FEES.
   No registration will be issued under this chapter until the appropriate
registration fees are paid in full. The fees will be established pursuant to
M.S. § 342.22, subd. 2, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.06 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An initial application for registration or a renewal of registration
with the county will be denied if:
      (1)   The applicant is under 21 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant does not have a valid retail license, preapproved
license, or retail endorsement from the Office of Cannabis Management;
      (3)   The applicant fails to provide any of the information required on
the licensing application or provides false or misleading information;
      (4)   The applicant is prohibited by state, or local law, ordinance,
zoning regulation, or other regulation from holding a registration;
      (5)   The applicant fails a pre-application inspection by the county as
provided under M.S. § 342.22, subd. 3(b), as amended from time to time.
   (B)   If a registration is mistakenly issued or renewed to any person, it
will be revoked upon the discovery of ineligibility for registration under this
chapter or state or other local law, ordinance, zoning regulation or other
regulation. Any revocation will comply with the requirements of M.S. § 342.22,
subd. 5, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED SALES AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions in this section apply to all jurisdictions that have
consented to county jurisdiction and registered retail establishments
throughout the county under the county's public health authority pursuant to
M.S. Ch. 145A, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   In general. In addition to the prohibitions set forth under M.S. §§
342.46, subd. 7 and 342.27, subd. 12, as may be amended from time to time, no
registered retail establishment shall sell or offer to sell any approved
product or medical cannabinoid product:
      (1)   By means of any type of vending machine.
      (2)   By means of self-service display. All approved cannabinoid products
and medical cannabinoid products, except for lower-potency hemp beverages, must
be stored in a locked case behind the sales counter, in a storage unit, or in
another area not freely accessible by the general public. This does not
prohibit registered cannabis retailers from displaying single product samples
pursuant to M.S. § 342.27, subd. 5, as may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   At a moveable place of business. Only fixed-location businesses may
sell approved products and medical cannabinoid products.
      (4)   That does not comply with the packaging and labeling required under
M.S. §§ 342.62 and 342.63, as may be amended from time to time, except that:
         (a)   No lower-potency hemp edible beverage may be sold outside of its
original packaging; and
         (b)   No lower-potency hemp edible product may be sold that does not
indicate a single serving by scoring or use of another indicator that appears
on the product. If it is not possible to indicate a single serving by scoring
or use of another indicator that appears on the product, the lower- potency
hemp edible may not be packaged in a manner that includes more than a single
serving in each container.
      (5)   By means of delivery sales. All sales of approved products and
medical cannabinoid products must be conducted in person, in a registered
retail establishment, in over-the- counter sales transactions. This does not
prohibit sale of medical cannabinoid products by medical cannabis combination
businesses by curbside pick-up as allowed in M.S. § 342.51, subd. 5, as may be
amended from time to time.
      (6)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by state or other local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation.
         (a)   Legal age. No person shall sell any approved product to any
person under the age of 21. Businesses licensed or endorsed to sell medical
cannabinoid products may sell medical cannabinoid products to persons under age
21 who are enrolled in the medical registry program pursuant to M.S. § 342.24,
subd. 1, as may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   Age verification. Before any sale of approved products, the
registered retail establishment must verify by means of government-issued
photographic identification containing the bearer's date of birth that the
purchaser is at least 21 years of age.
         (c)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age, age verification
requirement, and possible penalties for underage sales must be posted
prominently and in plain view at all times at each location where approved
products are offered for sale. The required signage, which will be provided to
the retail
establishment by the county, must be posted in a manner that is clearly visible
to anyone who is, or is considering, making a purchase.
         (d)   No admittance of any person under age 21. No person shall sell
or offer for sale any approved products or medical cannabinoid products, except
in registered retail establishments that prohibit persons under the age of 21
from entering at all times. This division does not apply to establishments only
registered for the sale of lower-potency hemp edibles.
         (e)   Cannabis retailer hours of operation. A registered cannabis
retail business with a license or endorsement authorizing the retail sale of
cannabis flower or cannabis products may not sell cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp- derived consumer products
between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday nor
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
         (f)   Instructional program. Registered retail establishments must
ensure that all sales clerks complete a training program on the legal
requirements related to the sale of approved products or medical cannabinoid
products, and the possible consequences of registration or license violations.
Registered retail establishments must maintain documentation demonstrating
their compliance and must provide this documentation to the county at the time
of renewal, or whenever requested to do so during
the registration term.
         (g)   Minimum clerk age. Individuals employed by a registered retail
establishment and medical cannabis combination business, including any
establishment selling lower-potency hemp edibles, must be at least 21 years of
age to sell approved cannabinoid products and medical cannabinoid products.
         (h)   Samples prohibited. No samples of any approved products or
medical cannabinoid products may be distributed free of charge or at a nominal
cost. The distribution of approved products or medical cannabinoid products as
a free donation is prohibited.
         (i)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking is prohibited within the indoor area
of any registered retail establishment.
         (j)   Sale of other products. Registered cannabis retail businesses
and medical cannabis combination businesses with retail sales are limited to
selling only the products allowed under M.S. § 342.27, subd. 3, as amended from
time to time. The sale of any products other than approved products by
registered retailers must comport with all requirements of state law.
         (k)   Child-resistant packaging. All sales of any approved products
and medical cannabinoid products must be packaged in child-resistant packaging.
Upon request by the county, a registered retail establishment must provide a
copy of the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
         (l)   Advertising restrictions. Registered retail establishments must
follow all advertisement restrictions pursuant to M.S. § 342.64, as amended
from time to time.
         (m)   Products that are attractive to underage persons. No person
shall sell or offer for sale any approved products and medical cannabinoid
products that are attractive to underage persons.
         (n)   Coupon and price promotion. No registered retail establishment
may accept or redeem any coupon, price promotion, or other instrument or
mechanism, whether in paper, digital, electronic, mobile, or any other form,
that provides any approved products to a consumer at no cost or at a price that
is less than the non-discounted, standard price listed by a retailer on the
item or on any shelving, posting, advertising, or display at the location where
the item is sold or offered for sale, including all applicable taxes.
         (o)   Flavored product. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
flavored products intended to be inhaled as smoke, aerosol, or vapor.
         (p)   Visitor log and identification.
            1.   A registered cannabis retail business shall maintain a log of
all visitor and customer activity, for any purpose, within the business area
where cannabinoid products are displayed, processed, sold, or stored and shall
make such logs available for inspection by the county. The log at a minimum
shall include the full name, date of birth, address and the date and time of
entry for all visitors and customers.
            2.   All visitors and customers prior to being admitted into a
registered cannabis retail business must provide acceptable proof of age and
must be at least 21 years of age.
            3.   The registered cannabis retail business prior to completing a
sale or transaction shall check the identification for all visitors and
customers to verify that the name on the identification matches the name in the
visitor log.
         (q)   No admittance of any person under age 21. Registered cannabis
retail businesses and medical cannabis combination business establishments must
verify by means of government-issued photographic identification containing the
bearer's date of birth that the purchaser is at least 21 years of age.
         (r)   Potency and amount per sale transaction.
            1.   Registered cannabis retail businesses may sell or offer for
sale approved products that comply with potency limits in accordance with M.S.
§ 342.27, subd. 2(c), 2(d), and 2(e), as amended from time to time.
            2.   Lower-potency hemp edible retailers and cannabis retailers may
sell or offer for sale lower-potency hemp edible products that comply with
potency limits in accordance with M.S. § 342.46, subd. 6, as amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.08 CANNABIS STORAGE REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions in this section apply to all jurisdictions that have
consented to county cannabis registration and registered retail establishments
throughout the county under the county's public health authority pursuant to
M.S. Ch. 145A, as amended from time to time.
   (A)   Registered cannabis retail businesses and medical cannabis combination
businesses with retail sales shall utilize one of the following methods for
storage of processed cannabis and cash during non-business hours:
      (1)   One or more safes, which shall be incorporated into the building
structure or securely attached thereto, located in a limited access area on the
registered cannabis retail business premises to store all processed cannabis
and cash. Cannabinoid products that must be kept refrigerated or frozen may be
locked in a refrigerated container or freezer on the sales area or limited
access area on the registered cannabis retail business premises, so long as the
appliance is affixed to the building structure.
      (2)   (a)   A vault with a steel security door, a steel frame, and a
multi-point, single motion locking system located in a limited access area on
the registered cannabis retail business premises to store all processed
cannabis and cash, with the walls and ceiling of the vault reinforced with one
of the following:
            1.   At least one layer of three-fourths inch plywood;
            2.   At least two layers of one-half inch plywood;
            3.   Steel mesh; or
            4.   Reinforced concrete.
         (b)   Cannabinoid products that must be kept refrigerated or frozen
may be locked in a refrigerated container or freezer on the sales area or
limited access area on the registered cannabis retail business premises, so
long as the appliance is affixed to the building structure.
   (B)   Registered cannabis retail businesses and medical cannabis combination
businesses that comply with all of the following requirements may be found to
have functionally equivalent security features and may be exempted from the
requirements identified in division (A):
      (1)   All cannabis concentrates and cash shall be stored during non-
business hours in a safe or vault satisfying the requirements set forth in
division (A);
      (2)   Cannabinoid products that must be kept refrigerated or frozen may
be locked in a refrigerated container or freezer on the sales area or limited
access area on the registered cannabis retail business premises, so long as the
appliance is affixed to the building structure;
      (3)   All other processed cannabinoid products shall be stored during
non-business hours in either:
         (a)   An opaque, locked, non-glass cabinet(s) that is securely affixed
to the building and located within a restricted access area or limited access
area on the registered cannabis retail business premises; or
         (b)   A locked inventory storage room(s) located within the sales area
or limited access area on the registered cannabis retail business premises.
      (4)   All areas that are vulnerable to vehicle impact, including but not
limited to all doors and floor-level windows, shall be protected with guard
posts or other physical barriers designed to resist, deflect, or deter
vehicular impact; and
      (5)   Pry shields shall be affixed to all exterior doors of the
registered cannabis retail business premises.
   (C)   Should the requirements identified in division (B) of this section
fail to mitigate burglary and theft at a registered cannabis retail businesses
or medical cannabis combination businesses with retail sales the county may
require that the registered cannabis retail businesses or medical cannabis
combination businesses with retail sales comply with division (A) of this
section.
   (D)   The premises of registered cannabis retail businesses or medical
cannabis combination businesses with retail sales shall be monitored in either
of the following manners:
      (1)   Live remote monitoring of video surveillance at all points of
ingress and egress shall be conducted 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with
loudspeakers allowing the monitoring entity to speak to persons at the
registered cannabis retail business premises; or
      (2)   On-site security guard(s) who patrol the premises at all times
during non- business hours.
   (E)   Prior to making physical changes to a registered cannabis retail
business premises any registered premises, registered cannabis retail
businesses or medical cannabis combination businesses with retail sales shall
obtain any required approvals from the appropriate county agencies verifying
compliance with this section and any other applicable laws, rules, regulations,
or codes.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.09 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   No sales of approved products, except for lower-potency hemp edibles,
are allowed at temporary cannabis events.
   (B)   No use of approved products, except for lower-potency hemp edibles,
are allowed at temporary cannabis events.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All registered retail establishments must be open to inspection by
authorized county officials or their designees during regular business hours.
   (B)   In accordance with M.S. § 342.22, subd. 4, as amended from time to
time, the county will conduct compliance checks of every retail establishment
with a retail registration issued by the county. The checks will assess
compliance with age verification requirements and all provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   From time to time, but at least twice per year, the county must
conduct compliance checks to ensure compliance with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   In accordance with state law, the county will conduct at least two
annual compliance checks that involves participation of a person at least 17
years of age, but under the age of 21 to enter the registered retail
establishment to attempt to purchase approved products under the supervision of
a law enforcement officer or an employee of the county. Prior written consent
from a parent or guardian is required for any person under the age of 18 to
participate in a compliance check.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.11 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All registered retailer establishments are responsible for the actions of
their employees regarding the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing of approved
products or medical cannabinoid products on the licensed and registered
premises. The sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of any approved product or
medical cannabinoid product by an employee will be considered an act of the
registrant.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.12 DEFENSES.
   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this chapter for a person to
have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.13 VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, an administrative citation from the county that sets
forth the alleged violation and that informs the alleged violator of their
right to a hearing on the matter and how and where a hearing may be requested,
including a contact address and phone number.
      (2)   Hearings.
         (a)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the County Administrator or other designated county officer. Failure to
properly request a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the
citation will terminate the person's right to a hearing.
         (b)   The County Administrator or other designated county officer will
set the time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and
place will be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business
days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The County Board will designate a hearing officer.
The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the county or an impartial
person retained by the county to conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within
ten business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer's reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the county and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the county and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in division (A)(6) of this section.
      (5)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the
county's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 must
be paid by the person requesting the hearing.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must
be filed in Wright County District Court within ten business days of the date
of the decision.
      (7)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, will constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Registrants. Any registrant or other retail establishment cited for
violating this chapter, or whose employee has violated this chapter, will be
charged an administrative fine of $300 for a first violation; $600 for a second
offense at the same registered premises within a 36-month period; and $1,000
for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 36-month period
from the first violation. The registration will be suspended for a period of
not less than 30 consecutive days for any violation of this chapter and may be
revoked. Upon a fourth violation within a 36-month period from the first
violation, the registration will be revoked.
      (2)   Registration suspension. In accordance with M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5,
as amended from time to time, the county will suspend the retail registration
of any registered retail establishment for 30 days for violations of this
chapter or if the operation of the business poses an immediate threat to the
health or safety of the public.
      (3)   Retail establishment operating without a registration. Pursuant to
M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), as amended from time to time, any retail
establishment found to be making or attempting to make any sales to a customer
or patient without a valid retail registration will be charged a civil penalty
of $2,000 for each violation.
   (C)   Tobacco retail licensees. In accordance with M.S. § 461.12, subd. 2a,
as amended from time to time, a tobacco retail license will be suspended for no
less than seven days and may be revoked for certain cannabis-related violations
by the licensed tobacco retailer on the licensed premises.
   (D)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties for violations of
this chapter authorized to be imposed by M.S. Ch. 342, as amended from time to
time, differ from those established in this chapter, then the higher penalty
will prevail.
   (E)   Complaints submitted to the Office of Cannabis Management. In
accordance with M.S. § 342.13(h), as amended from time to time, any violations
of this chapter will be submitted as complaints to the Office of Cannabis
Management.
   (F)   Payment of fines. Any administrative fines levied by the county
pursuant to this section shall be paid within 30 days of the date of mailing
for the citation or the hearing findings issued under division (A)(4).
   (G)   Unlawful administrative penalty reimbursement. It shall be unlawful
for any registered retail establishment to make an employee reimburse or pay
any administrative fine imposed under this chapter, whether directly or through
payroll deduction. Any registered retail establishment found to have violated
this provision shall be subject to misdemeanor prosecution and an
administrative fine. Nothing in this section shall prevent an employee from
seeking reimbursement or a civil action for the unlawful withholding of wages
or compensation under the state law.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 112.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective on the date of its publication, or upon the
publication of a summary of the ordinance as provided by M.S. § 375.51, subd.
3, as amended from time to time, which meets the requirements of M.S. §
331A.01, subd. 10, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 24-8, passed 12-18-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   SOCIAL HOSTS; RESPONSIBILITIES
      
131.   WATER SURFACE USE
CHAPTER 130: SOCIAL HOSTS; RESPONSIBILITIES
Section
   
130.01   Title and authority
   
130.02   Purpose and findings
   
130.03   Definitions
   
130.04   Jurisdiction
   
130.05   Prohibited acts
   
130.06   Exceptions
   
130.07   Enforcement
   
130.08   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   The County Board of Commissioners desires to protect the health, safety and
welfare of all persons living in and visiting the county. The use of alcohol by
persons under the age of 21 is prohibited by state statute. This chapter
prohibits and establishes penalties for any person hosting an event or
gathering where alcohol is present and being possessed or consumed by persons
under 21 years of age. This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05,
subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.02 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners intends to discourage underage possession
and consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events
or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the
alcohol.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners finds that:
      (1)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement;
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons,
as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption,
such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions;
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user;
      (4)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and condone the activity and, in some
circumstances, provide the alcohol;
      (5)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption; and
      (6)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs and the host knows or reasonably should know that such
conduct is taking place.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   (B)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine or beer, and which
contains 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
   (C)   EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have
assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   (D)   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control
or permit a gathering or event, whether that host is present or not.
   (E)   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (1)   As natural, adoptive parent or step-parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian; or
      (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   (F)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation or
any association of one or more individuals.
   (G)   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or for any social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented or used with or without permission or compensation.
   (H)   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable in all incorporated and unincorporated
municipalities (city or township) within the boundaries of the county under the
jurisdiction of the County Human Services Board. This chapter does not preempt
any ordinance adopted by a city (or township), as long as said ordinance is no
less restrictive than this chapter.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to host or knowingly allow an event
or gathering to take place at any residence, premises or on any other private
or public property in the county under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present;
      (2)   The person knows or reasonably should know that an underage person
will or does:
         (a)   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; and/or
         (b)   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it.
      (3)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or
consumption by the underage person(s).
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating this section if the
person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels or conspires with or
otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (C)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to legally protected religious
observations.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt
liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders who
are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1), as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (D)   This chapter does not apply to situations where underage persons are
lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and
scope of employment.
   (E)   This chapter does not apply to situations where landlords, farmers and
other property owners did not know, nor was it reasonable under the
circumstances for them to know, that underage possession and/or underage
consumption was taking place on their property.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter can be enforced by any police officer, Sheriff’s deputy or
certified peace officer in the county.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days following its final passage and
adoption.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
130.05 of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-28-2012)
CHAPTER 131 : WATER SURFACE USE
Section
   
131.01   Title
   
131.02   Intent and purpose
   
131.03   Definitions
   
131.04   Speed restrictions
   
131.05   Water safety regulations
   
131.06   Enforcement
   
131.07   Notification
   
131.08   Effective date
   
131.09   Exemptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Wright County
Water Surface Use Ordinance”.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 131.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted under the general powers delegated to counties
by the state, and pursuant to M.S. §§ 86B.205 and 375.51, as they may be
amended from time to time, and all enabling state rules based thereon.
   (B)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to:
      (1)   To promote the full use and enjoyment by all of the people, now and
in the future, and to promote safety for all persons and property in connection
with the use of the waters of the county;
      (2)   To conserve the quality of the natural environment; and
      (3)   To promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the county.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 131.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the terms related to boating are defined
in M.S. § 86B.005, as it may be amended from time to time. The following are
added in addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 86B.005, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CHANNEL. Any area on a public body of water in which the distance
between the shoreline on opposing sides of the public body of water is less
than 300 feet.
      (2)   CONGESTED AREA. A crowded condition on the surface of a public body
of water that occurs when there are three or more motorboats, swimmers, buoys
or flags concentrated in a small or narrow space.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 131.04 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Bertram Chain of Lakes. The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Bertram, Long, Mud and First Lakes also known as the Bertram Chain of
Lakes and other waters which are located within the boundary of the Bertram
Chain of Lakes County Park. The following restrictions apply 24 hours a day,
year round.
      (1)   No person shall operate a gas powered motor on a watercraft.
      (2)   No person shall operate a sea plane or motor vehicle including off-
road vehicles and snowmobiles.
      (3)   Electric motors are allowed with a maximum thrust of 100 pounds or
two horsepower.
      (4)   The lower unit of a gas powered motor on a watercraft must be
propped up out of the water.
   (B)   Cedar Lake (86022700). The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Cedar Lake. When lake level reaches or exceeds an elevation of 999.17
feet above sea level, motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed
within 300 feet from all shoreline unless launching or landing skiers directly
to or from open water. When high water levels have subsided and have remained
below an elevation of 999.17 feet above sea level for three consecutive days,
said restriction shall be promptly removed.
   (C)   East and West Lake Sylvia (86028900, 86027900). The following surface
water restrictions shall apply to East and West Lake Sylvia.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorboat, including seaplane, in excess
of slow-no wake speed within the channel between East and West Lake Sylvia.
      (2)   When lake level reaches or exceeds an elevation of 1,050.58 feet
above sea level, motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within
300 feet from all shoreline unless launching or landing skiers directly to or
from open water. When high water levels have subsided and have remained below
an elevation of 1,050.58 feet above sea level for three consecutive days, said
restriction shall be promptly removed.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motorboat, including seaplanes, in excess
of slow-no wake speed within 150 feet of the shoreline, 24 hours a day, between
Memorial Day weekend and Labor Day unless launching or landing skiers directly
to or from open water.
   (D)   Howard Lake (86019900). The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Howard Lake.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorboat, including seaplanes, in excess
of slow-no wake speed within 150 feet of the shoreline, 24 hours a day, between
Memorial Day weekend and Labor Day unless launching or landing skiers directly
to or from open water.
      (2)   When lake level reaches or exceeds an elevation of 998.58 feet
above sea level, motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within
300 feet from all shoreline unless launching or landing skiers directly to or
from open water. When high water levels have subsided and have remained below
an elevation of 998.58 feet above sea level for three consecutive days, said
restriction shall be promptly removed.
   (E)   Lake Ann (86019000). The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Lake Ann.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorboat, including seaplanes, in excess
of slow-no wake speed within 150 feet of the shoreline, 24 hours a day, between
Memorial Day weekend and Labor Day unless launching or landing skiers directly
to or from open water.
      (2)   When lake level reaches or exceeds an elevation of 987.50 feet
above sea level, motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within
300 feet from all shoreline unless launching or landing skiers directly to or
from open water. When high water levels have subsided and have remained below
an elevation of 987.50 feet above sea level for three consecutive days, said
restriction shall be promptly removed.
   (F)   Pleasant Lake (86025100). The following surface water restrictions
shall apply to Pleasant Lake. When the water level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam
(860243TW) reaches or exceeds an elevation of 992.1 feet above sea level,
motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet
from all shoreline on Pleasant Lake (86025100) unless launching or landing
skiers directly to or from open water. When high water levels have subsided and
have remained below an elevation of 992.1 feet above sea level at the Grass
Lake Outlet Dam (860243TW) for three consecutive days, said restriction on
Pleasant Lake shall be promptly removed.
   (G)   Lake Charlotte (86001100). The following surface water restrictions
shall apply to Lake Charlotte. No person shall operate a motorboat, including
seaplanes, in excess of slow-no-wake speed within 150 feet of the shoreline 24
hours a day, between Memorial Day weekend and Labor Day unless launching or
landing skiers directly to or from open water.
   (H)   Lake Augusta (86028400). The following surface water restrictions
shall apply to Lake Augusta.
      (1)   When the water level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam (860243TW)
reaches or exceeds an elevation of 992.1 feet above sea level, motorboats shall
be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet from all shoreline unless
launching or landing skiers directly to or from open water. When high water
levels have subsided and have remained below an elevation of 992.1 feet above
sea level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam (860243TW) for three consecutive days,
said restriction shall be promptly removed.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorboat, including seaplane, in excess
of slow-no wake speed within the channel between Augusta Lake and Clearwater
Lake.
   (I)   Lake Caroline (86028100). The following surface water restrictions
shall apply to Lake Caroline. When the water level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam
(860243TW) reaches or exceeds an elevation of 992.1 feet above sea level,
motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet from all
shoreline unless launching or landing skiers directly to or from open water.
When high water levels have subsided and have remained below an elevation of
992.1 feet above sea level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam (860243TW) for three
consecutive days, said restriction shall be promptly removed.
   (J)   Clearwater Lake (86025200). The following surface water restrictions
shall apply to Clearwater Lake.
      (1)   When the water level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam (860243TW)
reaches or exceeds an elevation of 992.1 feet above sea level, motorboats shall
be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet from all shoreline unless
launching or landing skiers directly to or from open water. When high water
levels have subsided and have remained below an elevation of 992.1 feet above
sea level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam (860243TW) for three consecutive days,
said restriction shall be promptly removed.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorboat, including seaplane, in excess
of slow-no wake speed within the channel between Augusta Lake and Clearwater
Lake.
   (K)   Grass Lake (86024300). The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Grass Lake. When the water level at the Grass Lake Outlet Dam
(860243TW) reaches or exceeds an elevation of 992.1 feet above sea level,
motorboats shall be restricted to a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet from all
shoreline unless launching or landing skiers directly to or from open water.
When high water levels have subsided and have remained below an elevation of
990.9 feet above sea level for three consecutive days, said restriction shall
be promptly removed.
   (L)   Lake Louisa (86028200). The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Lake Louisa. When lake level at the Fairhaven Dam reaches or exceeds
an elevation of 1006.73 feet above sea level, motorboats shall be restricted to
a slow-no wake speed within 300 feet from all shoreline unless launching or
landing skiers directly to or from open water. When high water levels have
subsided and have remained below an elevation of 1006.73 feet above sea level
for three consecutive days, said restriction shall be promptly removed.
   (M)   Lake Marie (73001400). The following surface water restrictions shall
apply to Lake Marie. When lake level at the Fairhaven Dam reaches or exceeds an
elevation of 1006.73 feet above sea level, motorboats shall be restricted to a
slow-no wake speed within 300 feet from all shoreline unless launching or
landing skiers directly to or from open water. When high water levels have
subsided and have remained below an elevation of 1006.73 feet above sea level
for three consecutive days, said restriction shall be promptly removed.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. passed 8-15-2015; Ord. 16-3, passed 6-14-
2016; Ord. 16-3a, passed 6-14-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 WATER SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a watercraft on the public waters of the
county while towing any person on water skis, water tube, aqua plane,
surfboard, saucer or similar device on a federal holiday, on Saturday or Sunday
or in a congested area at any time unless another person is on the watercraft
and in a position to continually observe the person being towed.
   (B)   No person shall operate a watercraft on the public waters of the
county while towing a person on water skis, water tube, aqua plane, surfboard,
saucer or similar device, while going into or through a channel.
   (C)   No person shall operate a watercraft or seaplane on the public waters
of the county so as to overtake, pass, or meet any watercraft or seaplane in a
channel or narrow passageway so as to endanger other watercraft, seaplane or
property or at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions.
   (D)   No person shall operate any watercraft or seaplane on the public
waters of the county in a manner so as to obstruct, or tend to obstruct, or
interfere with the passage of a watercraft or seaplane through a channel or
narrow passageway.
   (E)   No person shall swim in a channel or jump or dive from a channel
bridge in the public waters of the county.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The primary responsibility for enforcement of this chapter shall rest with
the County Sheriff. This, however, does not preclude enforcement by other
licensed peace officers.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 131.07 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the County Sheriff to provide for
adequate notification of the public, which shall include placement of a sign at
each public watercraft access outlining essential elements of this chapter, as
well as the placement of necessary buoys and signs.
   (B)   The County Sheriff, at his or her discretion, may delegate these
duties to a local lake association.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 131.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter amends and replaces, in its entirety, the amended ordinance
relating to public waters located in the county adopted on 3-2-1976. This
chapter has been in effect from and after the date of its passage and
publication.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 131.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All authorized resource management, emergency and enforcement
personnel and all employees of the County Parks Department, while acting in the
performance of their assigned duties, are exempt from the foregoing
restrictions.
   (B)   Persons with a permit as provided by the County Parks ordinance are
exempt from the restrictions in §
131.04(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 6-27-2017)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity that violates, or assists in
violating, any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 5-13-2014)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE AND ZONING
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING CODE AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
152.   FEEDLOTS
      
153.   (RESERVED)
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   SOLID WASTE
      
157.   POINT OF SALE SEPTIC CERTIFICATION
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Official map; land for future public use
   
150.02   Registered land surveyors; surveys
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 OFFICIAL MAP; LAND FOR FUTURE PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Land that is needed for future street and highway purposes and as
sites for other necessary public facilities, including parks, trails and public
buildings, is frequently diverted to non-public uses which could have been
located on other lands without hardship or inconvenience to the owners.
      (2)   When this happens, public uses of land may be denied or may be
obtained only at prohibitive costs or at the expense of dislocating the owners
and occupants of the land.
      (3)   Identification on an official map of land needed for future public
uses, permits both the public and private property owners to adjust their
building plans equitably and conveniently before investments are made which
will make such adjustments difficult to accomplish. It is the purpose of this
section to establish a uniform procedure for the proper use of official maps as
authorized by M.S. § 394.361, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   “Official map” defined.
      (1)   OFFICIAL MAP, as used in this section, means a map adopted in
accordance with this section showing existing county and state trunk highways,
proposed future county and state trunk highways and the areas needed for
widening of existing county and state trunk highways.
      (2)   An OFFICIAL MAP may also show other land needed for future public
purposes, including parks, trails and public buildings.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this section shall apply to all the
areas of the county outside the incorporated limits of municipalities.
   (D)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for adoption, amendment or
repeal of an official map or any part thereof may be initiated by a
recommendation of the Planning Commission or action by the County Board of
Commissioners on its own initiative, or based on recommendations of an advisory
commission or based on the request of another governmental entity.
   (E)   Sketch maps and reports. Every proposal or request for an official map
or its amendment or repeal, however initiated, shall be accompanied by a sketch
map or plat showing the lands proposed to be included and the public purpose to
be served. The County Board of Commissioners may request a report of the
Planning Commission as to any proposed official map.
   (F)   Notice; hearings.
      (1)   Notice. The County Board shall call a public hearing on the
proposed official map. A notice of time, place and purpose of the hearing and a
description of the property to be included in the official map shall be
published in the official newspaper once, at least ten days prior to the date
of the hearing. At least ten days prior to the hearing, a copy of the notice
shall be sent to the governing bodies of all towns and municipalities located
within the county and the owners of record of affected properties and the
owners of records of property within one-half mile of the affected property.
For purposes of this notice, the owner shall be determined by the records of
the County Auditor/Treasurer and the notice shall be addressed to the last
known address as shown by the Auditor/Treasurer’s records. Failure to serve any
such notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      (2)   Public hearing. At the time and place specified in the notice, the
County Board shall hear evidence and arguments concerning the proposal. The
hearing may be continued from time to time, with notice of the date and time of
the continued hearing to be stated on the record.
   (G)   Preparation and filing of maps.
      (1)   The official map or maps shall be prepared in sufficient detail to
permit the establishment of future acquisition lines on the ground. The
accuracy of the future acquisition lines shown on the official map shall be
attested to by the County Surveyor. An official map shall be of standard plat
size, as approved by the County Surveyor. Electronic mapping files (CAD or GIS)
shall also be provided. The scale of an official map shall be such so that the
map and features thereon are sufficiently legible. The format and content of
all official maps shall be subject to approval by the county. In unplatted
areas, a centerline survey shall be made, if applicable, prior to the
preparation of the final draft of the official map.
      (2)   After enactment of any ordinance adopting an official map or
amending or repealing a previous official map ordinance, a certified copy of
the official map or section to which the ordinance relates together with an
attached copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Auditor/Treasurer
who shall file a certified copy thereof with the County Recorder for record.
      (3)   In addition, one copy of the official map or section to which the
ordinance relates, together with an attached copy of the ordinance shall be
furnished to the town clerk of each affected town.
   (H)   Effect.
      (1)   After an official map has been adopted and filed, the issuance of
all land use or zoning approvals or building permits shall be subject to the
provisions of this section. The County Zoning Administrator shall deny every
application for a permit to construct a new building or structure or expand an
existing building or structure within any area designated on the official map.
In addition, the County Zoning Administrator may deny any application for any
use which is deemed to be in conflict with the public purposes shown on the
official map. Any preliminary and final subdivision plats filed pursuant to the
County Subdivision Ordinance shall reflect the areas covered by any official
map which has been adopted and filed. When any building or structure is
proposed on lands adjoining any area covered by an official map for county or
state trunk highway purposes, any front yard setback, as contained in §§
155.045 through
155.059 of this code of ordinances, shall be measured from the proposed
centerline as shown on the official map, or from the centerline of the existing
county or state trunk highway, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The adoption of an official map does not give the county a right,
title or interest in areas identified for public purposes thereon, but the
adoption of the map does authorize the county to acquire such interest without
paying compensation for buildings or structures erected in such area without a
permit or in violations of the conditions of a permit.
   (I)   Appeals.
      (1)   Whenever a building permit or land use or zoning approval is denied
pursuant to this section, the owner of the land may appeal to the County Board
of Adjustment pursuant to §
155.026 of this code of ordinances. In the event of such an appeal, the County
Zoning Administrator shall notify any governmental entity which has an interest
in the official map or the land in question. Upon appeal, the Board of
Adjustment may issue the permit or approval only if it finds that:
         (a)   The entire property belonging to the owner cannot be put to a
reasonable use unless such a permit or approval is granted; and
         (b)   Balancing the interest of the county in preserving the integrity
of the official map and the interest of the owner in the use of the property,
issuance of such permit or approval is required by considerations of justice
and equity.
      (2)   In that event, issuance of the permit or approval is stayed for a
period of six months to allow the appropriate governmental entity to take steps
to acquire the land in question, either through voluntary purchase or by
commencing eminent domain proceedings.
   (J)   Effective date. This section shall be and is hereby declared to be in
full force and effect from and after its passage and publication according to
law.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 2-27-2007; Ord. 23-4, passed 12-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYORS; SURVEYS.
   The County Board of Commissioners does, by ordinance, adopt Minn. Session
Law No. 112-1975 and require that any registered land surveyor who shall
perform a survey of land for an individual or corporation shall file a true and
correct copy of the survey in the office of the County Surveyor within 30 days
after completion of the survey. The manner of filing, and all incidents
thereof, shall be determined by the County Surveyor. All surveys filed shall be
public records and shall be available at all reasonable times for inspection by
any person. Furthermore, the County Board requests that a copy of said surveys
be available to the County Auditor/Treasurer to keep or to photostat when a
deed to this property is presented for recording.
(Res. 75-28, passed 7-1-1975)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.01 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or a term not to exceed 90
days or both, plus, in either case, the costs of prosecution. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 2-27-2007)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Building Code adopted
   
151.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
151.03   Permits and fees
   
151.04   Building Code optional chapters
   
151.05   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, hereinafter referred to as “the Code”, as
adopted by the state’s Department of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. §
326B, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established,
adopted and published from time to time by the state’s Department of Labor and
Industry, through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby adopted
by reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this subchapter. The Code is hereby incorporated in this subchapter
as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-10-2008; Ord. 16-2, passed ---)
§ 151.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the Code shall be
in accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code.
   (B)   The Code enforcement agency of the county is called the “Wright County
Office of Planning and Zoning”.
   (C)   The Code shall be enforced by a state-certified Building Official
designated by the county to administer the Code.
   (D)   The Code, as adopted by this subchapter, shall apply and be enforced
in all areas of the county outside the limits of the incorporated cities.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-10-2008)
§ 151.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time. Permit fees shall be
set by resolution adopted by the County Board of Commissioners, as provided in
§ 157.030 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-10-2008)
§ 151.04 BUILDING CODE OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   (A)   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§
326B.101 to 326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, allows the
municipality to adopt by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the
most current edition of the Minnesota State Building Code.
   (B)   The following optional provisions identified in the most current
edition of the Minnesota State Building Code are hereby adopted and
incorporated as part of the Code for the county.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-10-2008)
§ 151.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter, as amended, was effective upon publication.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-10-2008)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who shall violate
any of the provisions of the Code, adopted in §
151.01 of this chapter, or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions
of the Code or who shall make any false statement in any document required to
be submitted under the
provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to M.S. §
326B.082, as it may be amended from time to time, and subject to penalties as
set forth in M.S. § 609.03, as it may be amended from time to time. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the criminal remedy set out above, the Building
Official, in the event of a violation or threatened violation of the Code, may
request that the County Attorney commence appropriate civil legal action to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violation or threatened violation.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-10-2008)
CHAPTER 152: FEEDLOTS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Statutory authorization
   
152.003   Intent and purpose
   
152.004   Jurisdiction
   
152.005   Scope
   
152.006   Application
   
152.007   Measurements
   
152.008   Compliance
   
152.009   Definitions
   
152.010   Effective date
Minimum Standards; Regulations
   
152.025   Minimum area and animal density
   
152.026   Additional land
   
152.027   Building, holding basin, lagoon and manure storage area; setbacks
   
152.028   Wetland setbacks
   
152.029   Well setbacks
   
152.030   Wellhead protection areas
   
152.031   Shoreland
   
152.032   Municipality setbacks
   
152.033   Disposal of animal carcasses
   
152.034   Coordination with County Zoning Ordinance
   
152.035   Prohibited locations
   
152.036   Land application of manure
   
152.037   Manure storage and transportation
Land Application Sites; Restrictions
   
152.050   Soil loss in shoreland areas
   
152.051   Right-of-way
   
152.052   Frozen or snow-covered soils
   
152.053   Lakes and perennial streams
   
152.054   Other special protection areas
   
152.055   Floodplains
   
152.056   Drainage ditches
   
152.057   Private wells
   
152.058   Public wells
   
152.059   Residences
   
152.060   Treatment or disposal
   
152.061   Irrigation of liquid manure
Administration
   
152.075   Administrator; duties and powers
   
152.076   Administered by the county
   
152.077   Administered by the state
   
152.078   Conditional use permit
   
152.079   Variances
Registration and Permits
   
152.090   Registration
   
152.091   Permit required
   
152.092   Shoreland review required
   
152.093   Permit application
   
152.094   Notice of application
   
152.095   Duration of construction short-form and interim permits
Violations and Enforcement
   
152.110   Violations
   
152.111   Stop work orders
   
152.112   Revocation or suspension
   
152.113   Interference prohibited
   
152.114   Access to premises
   
152.115   Injunctive relief and other remedies
   
152.116   Reporting of spills and accidental discharges
   
152.117   Abandonment and accidental discharges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Wright County
Feedlot Ordinance”.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.002 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies contained
in: M.S. §§ 103B.301 through 103B.335, as they may be amended from time to
time; M.S. § 116.07, subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time; and the
state’s Pollution Control Agency Rules, parts 7020.0100 through 7020.2225; and
the county planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 394, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.003 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The production of farm animals and other agricultural products is an
important part of the history, environment and economy of the county.
Livestock, poultry, dairy products and other agricultural commodities are
produced within the county for consumption in the state, the United States and
foreign countries. The continued health of the agricultural community and the
production of these products is essential to the economic well being of the
county and its residents.
   (B)   The county also contains a wealth of natural resources including an
abundance of surface and ground water. These resources must be protected from
pollution to ensure the health of the public and to maintain safe, high quality
water for recreational, residential, agricultural and commercial use. The
following regulations have been established to protect natural resources and
the quality of life in the county while recognizing the importance of animal
agriculture and the beneficial uses of animal manure in the production of
agricultural crops.
   (C)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to allow for the
continued production of agricultural commodities and to maintain a healthy
agricultural community within the county while ensuring that animal feedlots
and animal wastes are properly managed to protect the health of the public and
the county’s natural resources.
   (D)   Therefore, this chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
      (1)   Being a delegated county pursuant to M.S. § 116.07, subd. 7, as it
may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7020;
      (2)   Establishing a procedure for the permitting of feedlots;
      (3)   Regulating the location, development, operation and expansion of
feedlots;
      (4)   Promoting best farm management practices;
      (5)   Protecting ground and surface water resources; and
      (6)   Minimizing environmental problems.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.004 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall apply to all the areas of the county
outside the incorporated limits of municipalities.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.005 SCOPE.
   (A)   (1)   From and after the effective dates of this chapter and
subsequent amendments, the use of all land and every building or portion of a
building used for a feedlot or as part of a feedlot in the county shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Pre-existing structures which are not in conformity with the
setback and area provisions of this chapter, but were in conformity with the
standards established by
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances, shall be allowed if a potential pollution
hazard does not exist and the registration procedures in §
152.090 of this chapter are complied with.
   (B)   (1)   A feedlot that is non-conforming because of excessive animal
unit numbers, which exists at the time of adoption of this chapter, may be
continued; provided that, the number of animal units does not increase.
      (2)   Whenever a non-conforming feedlot has reduced its animal unit
numbers over a period of more than one year to a lesser number of animal units,
such animal unit numbers shall not thereafter be increased.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.006 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other applicable law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall prevail.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.007 MEASUREMENTS.
   All stated and measured distance shall be taken to the nearest integral
foot. If a fraction is one-half foot or less, the integral foot next below
shall be taken.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.008 COMPLIANCE.
   The use of any land for the establishment, expansion or management of an
animal feedlot shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, Ch. 155 of
this code of ordinances and the provisions of the state’s Pollution Control
Agency rules, Ch. 7020.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.009 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   The word “shall” is mandatory, and not discretionary; the word
“may” is permissive; the word “person” shall include individuals, businesses
and corporations.
      (2)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular.
      (3)   Words shall be given their common usage if not defined.
      (4)   The words “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
      (5)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
      (6)   The word “Board” includes the “County Commissioners”, the “Board of
County Commissioners” or any other word or words meaning the “Wright County
Board of Commissioners”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AGENCY. The state’s Pollution Control Agency as established in M.S.
Ch. 116, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   ANIMAL MANURE. Poultry, livestock or other animal excreta or a
mixture of excreta with feed, bedding or other materials.
      (3)   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal manures which has as a standard the amount of manure
produced on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer. For purposes of
this chapter, the definition and units of measure contained in Minn. Rules part
7020.0300, subpart 5, shall apply.
      (4)   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment
having the following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less
than 18% over a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of a
BLUFF):
         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the water body;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope drains toward the water body.
      (5)   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the
top of a bluff.
      (6)   BOARD. The Wright County Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattel or property of any kind and when said
structures are divided by party walls without openings, each portion of such
building so separated shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.
      (8)   BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL. All buildings, other than dwellings, which
are incidental to a farming operation.
      (9)   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the state’s Pollution Agency
whose duties are defined in M.S. § 116.03, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (10)   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit specifically and individually
granted with provisions by the Planning Commission after recommendations
thereon pursuant to the provisions of Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
      (11)   CONSTRUCTION SHORT-FORM PERMIT. A permit giving permission for
construction or expansion of a feedlot or manure storage area when there is not
a pollution hazard.
      (12)   DOMESTIC FERTILIZER. An animal manure that is put on or injected
into the soil to improve the quality or quantity of plant growth; or animal
manure that is used as compost, soil conditioners or specialized plant beds.
      (13)   DRAINAGE WAY. Any natural or artificial water course, including,
but not limited to, streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, channels, canals,
conduits, culverts, waterways, gullies, ravines or washes, in which waters flow
in a definite direction or course, either continually or intermittently; and
including any area adjacent thereto which is subject to inundation by reason of
overflow or flood water.
      (14)   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit.
      (15)   FAMILY, IMMEDIATE. Persons related by blood, marriage or certified
legal instrument.
      (16)   FEEDLOT ADMINISTRATOR. A county employee appointed by the Board of
Commissioners to administer the provisions of this chapter. This employee shall
have the same duties and powers as a Feedlot Officer, as defined by Minn. State
Rules Ch. 7020.
      (17)   FEEDLOT, ANIMAL. A lot or building or combination of lots and
buildings intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of
animals and specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may
accumulate, or where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative
cover cannot be maintained within the enclosure. Pastures shall not be
considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS under these rules. Fish farms (aquaculture) shall be
considered FEEDLOTS for the purposes of this chapter.
      (18)   FEEDLOT, (NEW) ANIMAL. An animal feedlot constructed and operated
at a site where no animal feedlot existed previously or where a pre-existing
animal feedlot has been abandoned or unused for a period of five years or more.
      (19)   FEEDLOT, OPERATOR. An individual, a corporation, a group of
individuals, a partnership, joint venture, owner or any other business entity
having charge or control of one or more animal feedlots, poultry lots or other
animal lots.
      (20)   FEEDLOT PERMIT. A document issued by the agency or county which
contains requirements, conditions and compliance schedules relating to the
discharge of animal manure pollutants.
      (21)   FEEDLOT, RUNOFF. The movement of water from a feedlot, either in
the form of rainfall, snow melt, or as water from a waterway, ditch, drainage
way and the like passing over a feedlot, carrying particles of manure into a
body of water or to a channelized flow environment and thereby constituting a
potential pollution hazard.
      (22)   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in
the stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
      (23)   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      (24)   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the
floodway.
      (25)   FLOODPLAIN. Any area contained within the Floodplain Overlay
District, as defined by § 157.056 of this code of ordinances.
      (26)   HOLDING POND.
         (a)   A storage facility, usually earthen, where feedlot runoff and
other diluted wastes are stored before final disposal.
         (b)   It is not designed for treatment of waste.
      (27)   IMMEDIATELY INCORPORATED. Manure or process wastewaters tilled
into the soil within 24 hours of application and prior to rainfall.
      (28)   INTERIM PERMIT. A permit expiring no later than two years from the
date of issuance, identifying the necessary corrective measures to abate
potential pollution hazards.
      (29)   LAGOON, ANIMAL. An impoundment made by excavation of earth fill
and/or construction of an earthen berm for the biological treatment of animal
or other agricultural waste.
      (30)   MANURE STORAGE AREA. An area where animal manure or runoff
containing animal manure is stored or placed until it can be utilized as
domestic fertilizer or removed to a permitted animal manure disposal site.
      (31)   NRCS. The Natural Resource Conservation Service of the USDA, a
federal agency.
      (32)   OWNER. Any person having possession, control or title to an animal
feedlot.
      (33)   PARCEL. The same as a LOT OF RECORD, as defined by
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
      (34)   PASTURES. Areas where grass or other growing plants are used for
grazing and where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative ground
cover is maintained during the growing season except in the immediate vicinity
of temporary supplemental feeding or watering devices.
      (35)   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
      (36)   POTENTIAL POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition which indicates a
potential for pollution of land and/or waters including, but not limited to:
         (a)   An animal feedlot or manure storage area whose construction or
operation will allow a discharge of pollutants to surface water or ground water
of the state in excess of applicable standards, including, but not limited to,
Minn. Rules Ch. 7050, during a rainstorm event of less magnitude than the 25-
year, 24-hour event or will violate any state or county rules or ordinances; or
         (b)   An animal feedlot or manure storage area located within
shoreland area or floodplain.
      (37)   PROCESS WASTEWATERS. Waters and/or precipitation, including rain
or snow, which comes into contact with manure, litter, bedding, or other raw
material or intermediate or final material or product used in or resulting from
the production of animals, poultry, or direct products, such as milk or eggs.
      (38)   SHORELAND. Any area contained within the Shoreland District under
§
155.057 of this code of ordinances.
      (39)   SPECIAL PROTECTION AREA. Land within 300 feet of all:
         (a)   Protected waters and protected wetlands as identified on the
Department of Natural Resources Protected Waters and Wetlands map for the
county; and
         (b)   Intermittent streams and ditches identified on United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps, excluding drainage ditches with berms and
segments of intermittent streams which are grassed waterways.
      (40)   SWCD. The Wright Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (41)   TRANSITION AREAS. Areas adjacent to cities where a combination of
uses in an urban or near-urban environment is likely to develop over the long
term, as designated in the county’s land use plan.
      (42)   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      (43)   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portions thereof.
      (44)   WETLANDS. A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition).
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was originally adopted on 5-15-1998 and was in full force and
effect upon publication.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
MINIMUM STANDARDS; REGULATIONS
§ 152.025 MINIMUM AREA AND ANIMAL DENSITY.
   (A)   Minimum of four acres. Except as provided in division (B) of this
section, a minimum area of four acres or such greater area required to meet all
setbacks set forth by this chapter and
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances shall be required for animal feedlot
operations. On lots larger than four acres in the A/R, R-1, R-2, R-2a, R-3, S-
1, S-2, S-3 and W Zoning Districts, animals shall be allowed at a maximum
density of one-half animal unit per acre. In the AG Zoning District, animals
shall be allowed at a maximum density of one-half animal unit per acre on
parcels of four to ten acres. These restrictions shall not apply to normal farm
operations existing prior to the adoption of this chapter or to farms in the AG
Zoning District on parcels over ten acres in size. Parcels in the A/R Zoning
District are limited to less than ten animal units regardless of parcel size.
Parcel size in all districts is determined using all adjoining parcels under
common ownership. New feedlots in shoreland, as allowed by §
152.031(C), are limited to less than ten animal units, regardless of parcel
size. Livestock shall include those animals listed in §
155.003(B) of this chapter, except for dogs, cats and rabbits as domestic pets.
   (B)   Fowl and chickens. Every parcel of property, except for parcels in the
R-1 and W Zoning Districts under 2.5 acres, and notwithstanding any provision
to the contrary in §§
152.027-
152.031 and
Ch. 155, shall be allowed to have up to five domesticated fowl and 30 chickens,
except roosters, provided the following setbacks are met:
      (1)   Poultry buildings will be setback a minimum of 50 feet from side
and rear property lines and 300 feet from the ordinary high water mark of any
public body of water.
      (2)   Road setbacks are as required under
Ch. 155; and
      (3)   Poultry on less than four acres must be contained in a fenced
enclosure. The fence must be setback at least 15 feet from all side and rear
property lines, and must meet all road setback requirements. The fence must be
setback at least 50 feet from the ordinary high water level of a public body of
water, provided there is a buffer, as defined under M.S. § 103F.48, between the
fence and the public body of water.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 152.026 ADDITIONAL LAND.
   The animal feedlot owner shall own or have sufficient additional land under
contract to meet the manure utilization requirement for spreading of manure
produced in their feedlot. The county shall retain copies of all written
agreements between the feedlot operators and lessors or any person who permits
land application of manure. No land area may be subject to more than one such
agreement.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.027 BUILDING, HOLDING BASIN, LAGOON AND MANURE STORAGE AREA; SETBACKS.
   (A)   General. No permits shall be issued for the construction of an open-
air clay, earthen or flexible membrane lined swine waste lagoon or holding
pond. This prohibition does not apply to repair or modification related to an
environmental improvement of an existing lagoon or holding pond, nor does it
apply to containment basins constructed to handle runoff only from existing
animal feedlots, as necessary to correct a potential pollution hazard.
Livestock buildings, manure holding basins, lagoons and manure storage areas
shall be constructed, operated and maintained so as to minimize the aesthetic,
health, odor and pollution concerns associated with neighboring properties and
land uses. The following setbacks shall apply.
      (1)   Property lines.
         (a)   All buildings housing livestock, open feedlots and solid manure
storage areas, including short-term stockpiling sites: 100 feet; and
         (b)   Liquid manure storage areas in compliance with Minn. Rules part
7020.2100: 200 feet.
      (2)   Neighboring properties.
         (a)   Pre-ordinance feedlots.
            1.   The modifications and/or expansion of existing animal feedlots
and/or permanent manure storage areas that are located within 500 feet of an
existing dwelling unit may be allowed, if they do not further encroach on the
established setback. Existing feedlots that are within 1,000 feet of an
existing dwelling may not expand to more than 499 animal units, unless a
conditional use permit is obtained.
            2.   When an expansion requires a CUP, the Planning Commission
shall consider the impact on pre-existing dwelling units within 1,000 feet and
may require that the expansion meet the standards of a new feedlot.
         (b)   Post-ordinance feedlots.
            1.   No permits for a new dwelling unit shall be issued within 500
feet of an existing registered and/or permitted animal feedlot or permanent
manure storage area of ten to 499 animal units, nor within 1,000 feet of an
existing registered and/or permitted animal feedlot or permanent manure storage
area of 500 or more animal units unless a variance is obtained under §
152.079 of this chapter.
            2.   No permits shall be issued for the construction and/or
creation of a new animal feedlot or permanent manure storage area requiring
registration and/or a permit of ten to 499 animal units that is located within
500 feet of an existing dwelling, nor for the construction and/or creation of a
new animal feedlot or permanent manure storage area of 500 or more animal units
within 1,000 feet of an existing dwelling unless a variance is obtained under §
152.079 of this chapter.
            3.   An animal feedlot that currently does not need to register and
is located within 500 feet of a dwelling owned by a person other than an
immediate family member may not expand to such a number of animal units that
would require registration and/or a permit.
         (c)   Commercial or industrial activity. Five hundred feet from any
area zoned B-1, B-2 or I-1 under
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
         (d)   Exemption. Owners and/or operators of an existing feedlot, a
proposed feedlot or a feedlot modification or expansion, and their immediate
family, shall be exempt from the setback requirements set forth in this
section, with respect to any dwellings or feedlot improvements owned by them.
Division (A)(1) above regarding property line setbacks shall still be valid.
   (B)   Minimum standards. The standards set above are minimum standards that
may be increased by the Planning Commission during the conditional use permit
issuance process due to concerns or circumstances unique to a specific feedlot
permit application.
   (C)   Existing operations. Animal feedlots in active operation prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall comply with the standards of this section
whenever possible when a change in operation, animal numbers or new livestock
facility is proposed.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.028 WETLAND SETBACKS.
   The provisions of this section apply only to those areas which are not
designated as Shoreland District under §
155.057 of this code of ordinances.
   (A)   No new animal feedlots or manure storage areas shall be located within
300 feet of any protected waters or wetlands identified on the Department of
Natural Resources Protected Water and Wetlands Map for the county.
   (B)   Modifications or expansions to existing animal feedlots or manure
storage areas that are located within 300 feet of any protected waters or
wetlands identified on the Department of Natural Resources Protected Water and
Wetlands Map for the county are allowed as long as the expansion does not
further encroach into the wetland or pose a potential pollution hazard.
   (C)   No new animal feedlot or manure storage areas shall be allowed within
100 feet of a wetland of Types 3, 4 or 5 that does not appear on the Department
of Natural Resources Protected Water and Wetlands Map for the county.
   (D)   Modifications or expansions to existing animal feedlots or manure
storage areas that are located within 100 feet of a wetland of Types 3, 4 or 5
that does not appear on the Department of Natural Resources Protected Water and
Wetlands Map for the county are allowed as long as the expansion does not
further encroach into the wetland or pose a potential pollution hazard.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.029 WELL SETBACKS.
   (A)   New animal feedlots or manure storage areas shall not be located
within 100 feet of a private well.
   (B)   Modifications or expansions to existing animal feedlots or manure
storage areas that are located within 100 feet of a private well are allowed if
the expansion does not further encroach into the well setback.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.030 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS.
   Feedlot and manure management practices may be further regulated within well
head protection zones established by local units of government.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.031 SHORELAND.
   (A)   New animal feedlots or manure storage areas shall not be located
within any area classified as the County Shoreland Zoning District under §
155.057 of this code of ordinances, nor in the bluff impact zones except as
allowed in (C).
   (B)   Modifications or expansions to animal feedlots that existed as of 10-
16-2000, and that are located within any area classified as the County
Shoreland District under §
155.057 of this code of ordinances or within a bluff impact zone are allowed,
if they do not further encroach into the shoreland setback, do not further
encroach on bluff impact zones, if all identified pollution hazards are
corrected, and if they obtain a feedlot permit. No feedlot is allowed to expand
to a capacity of 1,000 animal units or more or the manure produced by 1,000
animal units or more within the shoreland district.
   (C)   For parcels meeting the density requirement of §
152.025(A), livestock, except for cattle, poultry, and hogs, shall be allowed
at a maximum density of one-half animal unit per acre provided the following
setbacks and requirements are met:
      (1)   All animal structures and feedlots must be 300 feet from the
ordinary high water level of all public bodies of water.
      (2)   Animals may be located in a pasture that is within 300 feet of the
ordinary high water level of a public body of water provided the pasture is
fenced so as to prevent animals from coming within 50 feet of the ordinary high
water level and there is a buffer, as defined under M.S. § 103F.48, between the
fence and the public body of water.
      (3)   The facility must have an animal unit capacity less than ten animal
units at all times. The owner may not establish a feedlot less than ten animal
units and subsequently expand to a feedlot of ten animal units or more as an
existing facility as would otherwise be allowed.
      (4)   The owner must complete the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
Notice of Construction or Expansion Form and submit a copy to the County
Feedlot Program Administrator and all local zoning authorities.
      (5)   The county may request that the owner submit plans and
specifications for review.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 152.032 MUNICIPALITY SETBACKS.
   (A)   Any new animal feedlot or expansion of a post ordinance animal feedlot
in excess of 50 animal units within one-half mile of a municipal border,
excluding the Cities of Otsego and St. Michael, in a General Agriculture (AG)
Zoned District will require a conditional use permit with a maximum 300 animal
unit limit.
   (B)   Pre-ordinance animal feedlots within one-half mile of a municipal
border, excluding the cities of Otsego and St. Michael, in a General
Agriculture (AG) Zoned District may be allowed to expand up to 500 animal units
if they do not further encroach on existing setbacks.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.033 DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   The animal feedlot owner shall provide a plan indicating the method to be
used for the disposal of animal carcasses.
   (A)   The plan for dead animal disposal shall be consistent with the state’s
Board of Animal Health regulations, Minn. Rules Ch. 1719.
   (B)   The disposal plan shall include the name and location of any rendering
service to be used and methods for protecting carcasses from scavengers.
   (C)   Animal carcasses, either whole, partial or ground-up, shall not be
disposed of in the manure storage structure.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.034 COORDINATION WITH COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE.
   All provisions of this chapter shall be coordinated with and referenced to
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances to ensure the compatibility and
comprehensive coverage of the requirements of both ordinances.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.035 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   No new animal feedlots shall be constructed within any 100-year floodplain.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.036 LAND APPLICATION OF MANURE.
   All land application of manure or process wastewater shall comply with Minn.
Rules part 7020.2225.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.037 MANURE STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Compliance with state and local standards. All animal manure shall be
stored and transported in conformance with the state’s Pollution Control Agency
Rules 7020 and this chapter.
   (B)   Potential pollution hazard prohibited. No manure storage area shall be
constructed, located or operated so as to create or maintain a potential
pollution hazard unless a certificate of compliance or a permit has been issued
by the MPCA.
   (C)   Vehicles, spreaders. All vehicles used to transport animal manure on
public roads shall be leak-proof. Manure spreaders with end gates shall be in
compliance with this provision; provided, the end gate works effectively to
restrict leakage and the manure spreader is leak-proof.
   (D)   Utilization as domestic fertilizer. Animal manure, where utilized as
domestic fertilizer, shall not be stored for longer than one year.
   (E)   Runoff control structures. All manure storage areas shall have runoff
control structures to contain the liquid if the storage area is located where a
potential pollution hazard exists.
   (F)   Storage capacity. A manure utilization plan specifying storage
capacity adequate for the type and quantity of manure generated by the animal
feedlot shall be developed as part of the permit process.
   (G)   Liquid manure storage areas. All liquid manure storage areas must
comply with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7020.2100.
   (H)   Steel tanks. No steel tanks shall be used for underground manure
storage.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
LAND APPLICATION SITES; RESTRICTIONS
§ 152.050 SOIL LOSS IN SHORELAND AREAS.
   Land application of manure or process wastewater shall not be allowed on
soils within shoreland that exceed allowable soil loss as set by the NRCS, with
assistance from the SWCD, unless a conservation plan that will reduce soil loss
to the allowable level is developed and is showing progress towards
implementation within one year of issuance of a feedlot permit or interim
permit.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.051 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Manure or process wastewater shall not be applied to the right-of-way of
public roads.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.052 FROZEN OR SNOW-COVERED SOILS.
   Manure or process wastewater shall not be applied to frozen or snow-covered
soils in special protection areas.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.053 LAKES AND PERENNIAL STREAMS.
   (A)   A minimum distance of 300 feet shall be maintained between surface
applications of manure or process wastewaters and all lakes and perennial
streams on unfrozen soils.
   (B)   In cases when manure is injected or immediately incorporated, or if
there is at least a 100-foot perennial buffer, the separation distance may be
reduced to 100 feet on unfrozen soils.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.054 OTHER SPECIAL PROTECTION AREAS.
   (A)   A minimum distance of 300 feet shall be maintained between surface
applications of manure or process wastewaters and all other special protection
areas on unfrozen soils.
   (B)   In cases where manure is injected or immediately incorporated, or if
there is at least a 50-foot perennial buffer, the separation distance may be
reduced to 75 feet on unfrozen soils.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.055 FLOODPLAINS.
   Manure or process wastewater applications in the Floodplain Overlay District
as defined by § 157.056 of this code of ordinances shall maintain the following
setbacks.
   (A)   No application to frozen or snow-covered soils in the floodplain.
   (B)   Any application to unfrozen soils in the floodplain shall be
immediately incorporated.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.056 DRAINAGE DITCHES.
   If no potential pollution hazard exists, a minimum distance of one rod or
16.5 feet shall be maintained between surface applications of manure or process
wastewater and drainage ditches or grassed waterways unless classified as a
wetland or protected water.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.057 PRIVATE WELLS.
   If no potential pollution hazard exists, a minimum distance of 100 feet
shall be maintained between all applications of manure or process wastewater
and any private water supply well.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.058 PUBLIC WELLS.
   If no potential pollution hazard exists, a minimum distance of 300 feet
shall be maintained between all application of manure or process wastewater and
any public water supply well.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.059 RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Manure or process wastewater shall not be applied within 100 feet of a
residence without injecting or immediate incorporation into the soil unless
permission in the form of a written agreement is granted to spread closer by
the resident.
   (B)   When determining the distance between a residence and manure
application, the distance shall be measured from the residence, not property
lines, to manure application.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.060 TREATMENT OR DISPOSAL.
   Any manure or process wastewater not utilized as domestic fertilizer shall
be treated or disposed of in accordance with applicable state rules.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.061 IRRIGATION OF LIQUID MANURE.
   (A)   The application of liquid manure or process wastewater by irrigation
is prohibited unless a liquid manure irrigation plan for the feedlot has been
submitted to and approved by the County Feedlot Administrator.
   (B)   The liquid manure irrigation plan must contain a description of the
specific irrigation process proposed, amounts and frequency of application,
analysis of the nutrient content of the manure or a proposed sampling schedule
for the manure, a description of the land to be used and a description of the
methods to be used to limit aesthetic and odor problems with neighbors.
   (C)   The County Feedlot Administrator shall provide the SWCD and Planning
and Zoning Department with copies of liquid manure irrigation plans for review
and comment before approval is given.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.075 ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter shall be administered by the County Planning and
Zoning Office with the assistance of the Wright Soil and Water Conservation
District.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint the County Feedlot
Administrator to discharge the duties of this Department under this chapter.
   (B)   The County Feedlot Administrator shall have the following duties and
powers:
      (1)   Administer and enforce this chapter;
      (2)   Issue construction short-form permits and interim permits;
      (3)   Receive and forward applications for state-administered permits
together with county recommendations to the state’s Pollution Control Agency;
      (4)   Supervise the keeping of all necessary records including those
related to feedlot and manure management and construction of manure storage and
runoff control structures and/or practices;
      (5)   Consult with SWCD, NRCS, MPCA and private consultants as necessary
to ensure construction standards are followed on manure handling and runoff
control structures;
      (6)   Maintain a record of all permits and registration material;
      (7)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to this
chapter;
      (8)   Educate the public and feedlot operators to issues of this chapter
such as potential feedlot pollution problems;
      (9)   Oversee the inspection of feedlot operations to ensure compliance
with this chapter;
      (10)   Consult with other county departments, state and federal agencies
and private consultants as needed to discharge these duties.
      (11)   Fulfill the requirements of a county feedlot pollution control
officer as set out in Minn. Rules part 7020.1600, subpart 2.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.076 ADMINISTERED BY THE COUNTY.
   The County Feedlot Administrator shall review applications and process as
follows.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be processed in accordance with Minn.
Rules part 7020.1600, subpart 4a.
   (B)   Applications for state-administered feedlots shall be first submitted
to the County Feedlot Administrator. After review, the application and comments
shall be forwarded to the Agency.
   (C)   No building permits directly related to the confined feeding,
breeding, raising or holding of animals or the handling or storage of manure
shall be issued until a construction short-form permit or interim permit, if
required, has been issued by the Agency or the county.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.077 ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE.
   The County Feedlot Administrator shall forward to the Commissioner, with
recommendations and comments, all animal feedlot permit applications which fall
within one or more of the following categories:
   (A)   Animal feedlots that are required to obtain a permit under Minn. Rules
part 7020.0405, subparts 1A and B. This includes all feedlots of 1,000 animal
units or more;
   (B)   Animal feedlots where manure is not used as a domestic fertilizer; or
   (C)   Animal feedlots for which further technical review is desired by the
County Feedlot Administrator.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.078 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The requirement for a conditional use permit for any new animal
feedlot or animal feedlot expansion shall be as follows.
      (1)   Zoning districts.
         (a)   Any new animal feedlot or animal feedlot expansion which is
required to register under this chapter, proposed in a General Agricultural
District shall require a conditional use permit if the proposal causes the
facility to meet or exceed 500 animal units.
         (b)   No new animal feedlots or animal feedlot expansion which is
required to register under this chapter will be allowed on land zoned
Agricultural/Residential (A/R), Urban/Rural Transition (R-1), Suburban
Residential (R-2 and R-2a) or Multiple-Family Urban (R-3) Districts.
      (2)   Land use plan districts.
         (a)   Any new animal feedlot or animal feedlot expansion which is
required to register under this chapter proposed in a designated Agricultural
District shall require a conditional use permit if the proposal causes the
facility to meet or exceed 500 animal units.
         (b)   Any new animal feedlot or animal feedlot expansion which is
required to register under this chapter proposed in a designated Rural
Residential District shall require a conditional use permit with a maximum
allowable 300 animal units for a new animal feedlot and 500 animal units for an
expansion of an existing animal feedlot.
         (c)   Any animal feedlot expansion which is required to register under
this chapter proposed in a designated Residential, Residential Large Lot,
Commercial or Industrial District shall require a conditional use permit with a
maximum allowable 200 animal units. No new animal feedlots which are required
to register under this chapter are allowed in these districts.
         (d)   No new animal feedlots or animal feedlot expansions which are
required to register under this chapter shall be allowed in transition areas.
   (B)   All conditional use permit determinations must be reviewed against the
district requirements of both the county’s zoning district maps and the
county’s land use plan district maps. The more restrictive of the two shall
apply for the determination.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.079 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance from the setback and area requirements of this chapter and
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances may be granted when granting the variance
would not result in adverse environmental effects and if the criteria for
granting variances under §
155.026(C) of this code of ordinances can be met.
   (B)   Any person seeking a variance shall complete a variance application
form and submit it to the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The matter shall be referred to the County Board of Adjustment for a
public hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper of the county at least ten days prior to the hearing. Notice of the
hearing shall also be submitted to the governing bodies of all towns and
municipalities within two miles of the affected property. In unincorporated
areas of the county, property owners of record within one-quarter mile of the
affected property or the ten properties nearest to the affected property,
whichever is the greatest number of property owners, shall be notified in
writing of the public hearing on the request for a variance. In incorporated
areas of the county, property owners of record within 500 feet of the property
in question shall be notified in writing of the public hearing on the request
for a variance.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall take action on the application within
the time limits set out in M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time. If the variance is granted, the Board may impose conditions it considers
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare and such conditions
may include a time limit for the use to exist or operate.
   (E)   A variance may not be granted that would allow any use that is
prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
   (F)   No application for a variance shall be resubmitted for a period of one
year from the date that the request is denied, except the Board of Adjustment
may allow a new application, if new evidence or a change in circumstances
warrant it.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
REGISTRATION AND PERMITS
§ 152.090 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration shall be required for all animal feedlots of ten animal
units or more on a four-year cycle following the guidelines contained in Minn.
Rules part 7020.0350, subpart 4. Failure to register is not a violation
pursuant to §
152.110 of this chapter. Registration shall also be required for all animal
feedlots of less than ten animal units if they are located in shoreland and if
modification or expansion of said animal feedlot is proposed.
   (B)   A registration form shall be made available by the Feedlot
Administrator and will include the information required under Minn. Rules part
7020.0350, subpart 1.
   (C)   Any person owning or operating an existing animal feedlot without a
current registration or feedlot permit from the county or the Agency shall
register the feedlot operation with the Feedlot Administrator.
   (D)   A registered animal feedlot shall secure the county and/or state
permits when required under this chapter.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.091 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person owning or operating a proposed or existing animal feedlot having
ten animal units or more in a shoreland area, or 50 animal units or more
anywhere else, shall make application to the Feedlot Administrator for a
feedlot permit if any of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   A new animal feedlot is proposed;
   (B)   A change in operation of an existing animal feedlot is proposed; a
CHANGE IN OPERATION includes:
      (1)   A change in the construction or operation of an animal feedlot that
would significantly or adversely affect the storage, handling, utilization or
disposal of animal manure;
      (2)   An increase beyond the registered number of animal units;
      (3)   Any construction of a building or the expansion of a dirt or
concrete lot that contains livestock; and/or
      (4)   An increase in the number of animal units to ten or more which are
confined at an unregistered animal feedlot.
   (C)   A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
application is required under state or federal rules and regulations; and
   (D)   An inspection by Agency staff or the County Feedlot Administrator
determines that the animal feedlot creates or maintains a potential pollution
hazard.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.092 SHORELAND REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Any animal feedlot of ten animal units or less which is located within the
Shoreland Zoning District as designated under §
155.057 of this code of ordinances may be reviewed by the County Feedlot
Administrator to determine if a potential pollution hazard exists. The Feedlot
Administrator may place conditions upon the operations of such animal feedlots
to limit their impact on surface water quality.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.093 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A permit application shall include the following:
   (A)   Owner’s and operator’s name and address;
   (B)   Location, or proposed location, of the animal feedlot including
quarter, section, range and township;
   (C)   Animal types and maximum number of animals of each type which will be
confined at the feedlot;
   (D)   A scale drawing clearly indicating the dimensions of the feedlot and
showing all existing homes, buildings, existing manure storage areas and/or
structures, lakes, ponds, watercourses, wetlands, dry-runs, rock outcroppings,
roads and wells within 1,000 feet of the proposed feedlot;
   (E)   Descriptions of the soil types, ground water elevations, topography
and drainage pattern of the site and surrounding area;
   (F)   Plans for buildings and structures as required by this chapter and/or
other county and state ordinances and regulations;
   (G)   A manure and waste management plan including:
      (1)   Manure handling and application techniques;
      (2)   Acreage available for manure application;
      (3)   Runoff potential;
      (4)   Plans for proposed manure storage or pollution abatement
structures; and
      (5)   Plans for the proper disposal of dead livestock.
   (H)   Leases or agreements allowing the applicant to dispose of manure on
land other than his or her own;
   (I)   Application fees, permit fees and such other fees as established by
resolution of the County Board; and
   (J)   Any provision in this chapter which requires a conditional use permit
shall be administered as required by §
155.029 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.094 NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   Persons applying for a new animal feedlot or animal feedlot expansion with a
capacity of 500 animal units or more shall provide evidence of complying with
the notice requirements contained in M.S. § 116.07, subd. 7a, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.095 DURATION OF CONSTRUCTION SHORT-FORM AND INTERIM PERMITS.
   All construction short-form permits and interim permits expire within 24
months of the date of issuance, and may be extended only under the provisions
contained in Minn. Rules part 7020.0535, subpart 5.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.110 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof
or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be submitted
under the provisions hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.111 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever any construction or animal feedlot activities are being done
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the County Feedlot Administrator,
Environmental Health Officer or Planning and Zoning Administrator may order the
work stopped by written notice personally served upon the owner or operator of
the feedlot.
   (B)   Such construction or animal feedlot activities shall cease and desist
until subsequent authorization to proceed is received from the County Feedlot
Administrator, Environmental Health Officer or Planning and Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.112 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Whenever any animal feedlot is operated in violation of the conditions set
forth on the permit, interim permit or certificate of compliance, said permit
may be subject to revocation or suspension upon written notice personally
served upon the owner or operator of the feedlot.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.113 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hinder or otherwise interfere with the County Feedlot
Administrator or his or her assistants in the performance of duties and
responsibilities required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.114 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Upon the request of the County Feedlot Administrator, the applicant,
permittee or any other person shall allow access at any reasonable time to the
affected premises for the purposes of administering and enforcing this chapter.
Refusal to allow reasonable access to the County Feedlot Administrator shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter, whether or not any other specific
violations are cited.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.115 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, the County Feedlot
Administrator or the Planning and Zoning Administrator may request that the
County Attorney institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including the
seeking of injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such
violations. All costs incurred for such enforcement action may be recovered by
the county in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   These remedies may be imposed upon the owner, operator, applicant,
permittee, installer or other responsible person either in addition to or
separate from other enforcement actions.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.116 REPORTING OF SPILLS AND ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Owners and operators of animal feedlots shall immediately report to the
County Feedlot Administrator any accidental discharge of animal manure from a
lagoon or holding pond.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 152.117 ABANDONMENT AND ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Owners and operators of animal feedlots shall have joint and several
liability for clean-up, closure or remediation of abandoned animal feedlot
sites as well as for the clean up or remediation of the effects of spills and
accidental discharges. At the discretion of the county, such costs may be
certified to the County Auditor/Treasurer as a special tax against the real
property involved.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 4-4-2006)
CHAPTER 153: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Preamble
   
154.02   Title
   
154.03   Purpose and intent
   
154.04   Jurisdiction
   
154.05   Application
   
154.06   Approval necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats; review
   
154.07   Submittal of plats and metes and bounds divisions; approval
   
154.08   Compliance
   
154.09   Building permits
   
154.10   Rules
   
154.11   Definitions
   
154.12   Exceptions
   
154.13   Registered land surveys
   
154.14   Conveyance by metes and bounds for building development purposes; less
than five acres
   
154.15   Effective date
Design Standards
   
154.30   Blocks
   
154.31   Lots
   
154.32   Roads, highways, streets and alleys
   
154.33   Easements
   
154.34   Public sites and open spaces
   
154.35   Preliminary plat content
   
154.36   Data required on final plats
Basic Improvements
   
154.50   General
   
154.51   Road and highway improvements
   
154.52   Sanitary sewer and water distribution improvements
   
154.53   Public utilities
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PREAMBLE.
   This chapter establishes regulations for the subdivision and platting of
land within the county and without boundaries of municipalities, defining
certain terms used herein, providing for the preparation of plats, providing
for the installation of streets, road and other improvements; establishing
procedures for the approval and recording of plats; and providing penalties for
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of Wright County”,
and will be referred to herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.03 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To safeguard the best interests of the county;
      (2)   To assist the subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with
those of the county at large, as well as with those of the local municipalities
located within the county;
      (3)   To prevent piecemeal planning of subdivisions, undesirable,
disconnected patchwork of pattern and poor circulation of traffic;
      (4)   To correlate land subdivisions with the County Comprehensive Plan;
to secure the rights of the public, with respect to public lands and waters; to
improve land records by establishing standards for surveys and plats;
      (5)   To discourage inferior development which might adversely affect
property values; and
      (6)   To establish subdivision development of standards compatible with
affected municipalities and townships within the county.
   (B)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to make certain
regulations and requirements for the platting of land in the county pursuant to
“An Act Authorizing County Planning and Zoning Activities; Establishing a Board
of Adjustment, Authorizing the Enactment of Official Controls, and Providing
Penalties for Violation Thereof”, passed by the Legislature of the state, Ch.
559, Laws of 1959 as amended, which regulations the Board of County
Commissioners deems necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the
county.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.04 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and the subdivision of land shall
apply to all the areas of the county lying outside the incorporated limits of
municipalities.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or each part thereof
lying within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared, presented for
approval and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein
shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots, tracts or other division of land for the purpose of sale or of
building development, whether immediate or future, including the re-subdivision
or replatting of land or lots.
   (B)   Division of land in tracts larger than 40 acres in area and 300 feet
in width where the remainder is not less than 40 acres shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.06 APPROVAL NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS; REVIEW.
   (A)   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be
reviewed by the County Planning Commission and approved by the Board of County
Commissioners as having fulfilled the requirements of this chapter, except the
Planning Commission shall review and approve all subdivisions of land, less
than 40 acres made by metes and bounds description.
   (B)   Any proposed plat lying within two miles of any municipality within
the county shall also be submitted to and reviewed by said municipality. Any
proposed plat lying within any county township, or townships, shall also be
submitted to, reviewed and commented on by said township or townships.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.07 SUBMITTAL OF PLATS AND METES AND BOUNDS DIVISIONS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Proposed plan.
      (1)   Prior to the filing of an application for conditional approval of
the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit for review with the Zoning
Administrator, subdivision proposed plans which shall contain the following
information: tract boundaries, north point, description of nature and purpose
of tract, proposed land uses for tract, existing land uses of adjacent tracts,
streets on and adjacent to the tract, proposed general street layout, proposed
general lot layout and significant topographical and physical features as are
determined necessary by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Such proposed plans will be considered as submitted for informal
and confidential discussion between the subdivider and the Zoning
Administrator. Submission of a subdivision proposed plan shall not constitute
formal filing of a plat with the Commission.
      (3)   As far as may be practical on the basis of a proposed plan, the
Zoning Administrator will informally advise the subdivider as promptly as
possible of the extent to which the proposed subdivision conforms to the design
standards of this chapter and will discuss possible plan modifications
necessary to ensure conformance.
   (B)   Preliminary plat; procedure.
      (1)   Approval of the County Planning Commission:
         (a)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
County Planning Commission at least 21 days prior to the Planning Commission
meeting at which consideration is requested. The County Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing on said preliminary plat. The notice of the public
hearing shall be sent to the property owners within 500 feet. It shall not be
necessary to notify property owners in cities. Notice shall also be sent to the
township board or boards and municipalities within two miles at least ten days
prior to the hearing date. Public notice shall consist of a general description
of the proposal, the time, date and place of hearing. The applicant must
provide the tax parcel number or numbers.
            1.   For the purpose of notification, ownership of property within
the previously described required distance shall be provided by the applicant
and shall be certified as being correct. The owner, as herein defined, shall be
the fee owner or contract purchaser. The Planning Commission shall act on each
plat thereof submitted within 90 days of date of submission, or such time as
mutually agreed by the applicant; failure to act shall be deemed as approval.
In case the plat is disapproved within 45 days, the subdivider shall be
notified of the reason for such action and what requirements will be necessary
to meet the approval of the Planning Commission.
            2.   Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat shall be
conveyed to the subdivider in writing within 45 days after the meeting of the
Planning Commission at which such plat was considered.
         (b)   In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be
notified of the reason for such action. The approval of the preliminary plat
does not constitute an acceptance of the subdivision, but is deemed to be an
authorization to proceed with the final plat. This approval of the preliminary
plat shall be effective for a period of six months, unless an extension is
granted by the Planning Commission. The subdivider may file a final plat
limited to such portion of the preliminary plat which he or she proposed to
record and develop at the time; provided that, such portion must conform to all
requirements of this chapter. If some portion of the final plat has not been
submitted for approval within this period, a preliminary plat must again be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the County Commissioner,
or Commissioner of the district or districts in which the subdivision is
located and the township board, or boards, in which the subdivision is located,
for review at least ten days prior to the public hearing.
      (3)   The preliminary plat shall be submitted to any municipality within
two miles of the plat, for review at least ten days prior to the public
hearing.
      (4)   The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the utility or power
company for review of utility easements, at least ten days prior to the public
hearing.
      (5)   The County Surveyor and Highway Engineer shall submit a report to
the County Planning Commission concerning the feasibility of the proposed plat
and its conformance. In the case where the County Surveyor is submitting the
preliminary plat, the report shall be submitted either by the County Highway
Engineer or other qualified person selected by the County Planning Commission.
      (6)   The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Park Board
Chairperson and to the Park Board representative.
      (7)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a fee to be submitted
to the Zoning Administrator as established by the County Board. Such fee is to
be used for the expense of the county in connection with the review,
inspection, approval or disapproval of said plat.
      (8)   The land survey shall certify conformance to design standards for
both preliminary and final plats.
      (9)   Percolation tests are required on each soil type of building site
groups three through eight within the proposed platted area. The soil types
will be determined from the Wright County Soils Survey Atlas done by the Soils
Conservation Service. The location and number of percolation tests may be
reduced only at the direction of the County Sanitarian.
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   Procedure. After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final
plat may be submitted for approval as follows.
         (a)   Examination and approval by the County Surveyor.
            1.   A copy of the final plat, in preliminary form, shall be
submitted to the County Surveyor for examination and approval. The County
Surveyor shall examine the plat for conformance to county requirements and
state statutes.
            2.   The owner of the plat shall be charged a fee for such service,
in accordance with a schedule established by the County Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Approval of the County Planning Commission. The final plat shall
be submitted to the County Planning Commission at least ten days prior to a
Planning Commission meeting at which consideration is requested. The Planning
Commission shall act on each plat submitted within 60 days of submission;
failure to act shall be deemed as approval. In case the plat is disapproved,
the subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and what
requirements shall be necessary to meet the approval of the Planning
Commission.
         (c)   Approval of the County Board.
            1.   After review and approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission, such final plat, with the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, shall be submitted to the County Board for action. The County Board
shall act on each plat, recommended by the Planning Commission, within 60 days
after submission to the County Board.
            2.   If accepted, the final plat shall be approved by resolution,
which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all streets, roads,
alleys, easements or other public ways, and parks, or other open spaces
dedicated to public purposes. If disapproved, the grounds for refusal to
approve a plat shall be set forth in the proceedings of the Board and reported
to the subdivider applying for such approval.
      (2)   Fees. The final plat shall be accompanied by all fees established
by these regulations, all fees to be submitted to the County Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   Plat approval.
      (1)   Each subdivision plat or registered land survey plat or condominium
plat must be approved by the County Surveyor before recording.
      (2)   The proprietor of the subdivision plat or registered land survey
plat or condominium plat shall be charged a fee for the review and approval in
accordance with a schedule established by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979; Ord. 89-1, passed 12-5-1989)
§ 154.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County
Recorder’s office, or have any validity until the plat thereof has been
prepared, approved and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.09 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued by the county for the construction of any
building, structure or improvement to the land or to any lot in a subdivision,
as defined herein, until all requirements of this chapter have been complied
with.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.10 RULES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the
plural the singular; and the word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
   (B)   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded
by streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river, stream or lake.
   (C)   COUNTY. The County of Wright.
   (D)   COUNTY BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Wright County.
   (E)   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Wright County Planning Commission.
   (F)   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The group of maps, charts and texts that make up
the comprehensive long-range plan for the county.
   (G)   DEDICATION. The contribution of property or of money to the governing
body. Said property is forever vacated by the dedicators or their successors.
   (H)   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdividers for
the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, is indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-
ways, blocks, easements and lots.
   (I)   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land
for the purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not
limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
private right-of-way, storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   (J)   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the
requirements of the county and the state statutes regarding the platting of
land and in such form as required for the purposes of recording.
   (K)   HIGHWAY. Any public road, thoroughfare or vehicular right-of-way with
a federal or state numerical route designation; any public thoroughfare or
vehicular right-of-way with a county numerical route designation.
   (L)   HIGHWAY, MAJOR INTERCITY AND REGIONAL. State and federal highway
routes within the county.
   (M)   HIGHWAY, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. The principal county highways; such
arterial highways inter-connect communities within the county and adjoining
counties, and carry traffic between principal land use districts within the
county.
   (N)   HIGHWAY, MINOR ARTERIAL. The secondary county highways; such highways
carry traffic between land use districts, but also provide ready access to
private properties.
   (O)   LOT OF RECORD. A deed which has been recorded with the County
Recorder.
   (P)   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public lands and open spaces in the county
dedicated or reserved for recreation purposes.
   (Q)   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. On street center line, means the distance
vertically (up or down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for
each 100 feet of horizontal distance.
   (R)   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or
within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   (S)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated.
   (T)   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view of protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   (U)   ROAD. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians
and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, place or however otherwise
designated.
   (V)   ROAD, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street or road with only one outlet and
having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
   (W)   ROAD WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating
the road right-of-way.
   (X)   SUBDIVIDER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-
partnership, corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   (Y)   SUBDIVISION. The dividing of any parcel of land into two or more
parcels.
      (1)   PLATTED SUBDIVISION. Any resultant parcel is less than five acres
in area and less than 300 feet in width and the subdividing was done for the
purpose of transfer of ownership to effectuate building development or if a new
street or road is involved, regardless of the size of the parcel and/or its
width, such parcels must be platted in accordance with the terms and procedures
of this chapter.
      (2)   UNPLATTED SUBDIVISION. A division of any parcel of land into two or
more parts wherein all parts are at least five acres and have at least 300 feet
in width and frontage on an existing public road. Ingress and egress easements
of any type shall not be construed as public roads. These do not require
platting, but shall be zoned for the appropriate use.
   (Z)   TANGENT. A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a
curve where a tangent meets a curve.
   (AA)   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a road or highway center
line located between lines of different percentage of grade.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend an exception to the provisions
of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. In granting an exception, the Commission shall prescribe any
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the protection of the
public interest. In making its findings, as required herein below, the Planning
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons who reside or
work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   No exception shall be granted unless the Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land. Metes and Bounds
divisions of scattered sites is permitted at the discretion of the Planning
Commission and must be consistent with other property divisions in the area;
      (2)   The exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner; and
      (3)   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which the property
is situated.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.13 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   It is the intention of this chapter that all registered land surveys in the
county shall be presented to the Planning Commission in the form of a
preliminary plat in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter for
preliminary plats and that the Planning Commission shall first approve the
arrangements, sizes and relationship of proposed tracts in such registered land
surveys, and that tracts to be used as easements or roads should be so
designated. Unless such approvals have been obtained from the Planning
Commission, the County Board and the County Surveyor in accordance with the
standards set forth is this chapter, building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys
and the county may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads, or to
improve, repair or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.14 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS FOR BUILDING DEVELOPMENT PURPOSES; LESS
THAN FIVE ACRES.
   (A)   The regulations established by this section are for the purpose of
providing for the reasonable regulation of conveyance by metes and bounds
descriptions, thereby promoting greater efficiency in the county offices having
responsibilities relating to the conveyance of land and to promote the purpose
set forth in M.S. § 272.19, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No conveyance of land to which the regulations are applicable shall be
filed or recorded if the land is described in the conveyance by metes and
bounds or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after 6-4-
1971, or to an unapproved plan made after such regulations have become
effective. The foregoing provision does not apply to a conveyance if the land
described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record on the date of adoption of
subdivision regulations under M.S. §§ 394.21 to 394.37, as they may be amended
from time to time;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to such time; or
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres and having a
width of not less than 300 feet; and
      (4)   Has been zoned for a residential use and approved by the County
Board and a conditional use permit approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Building permits shall be withheld for buildings on tracts which have
been subdivided and conveyed by the metes and bounds method, except as set out
in division (B) above.
   (D)   The county and townships may refuse to take over tracts as streets or
roads or to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in full force and effect from and after its passage
according to law.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.30 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length.
      (1)   In general, intersecting streets and roads, determining block
length, shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets and roads. Where no existing plats
control, the blocks in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed 1,320
feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure
from this maximum. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways and/or
easements through the block may be required near the center of the block.
      (2)   Blocks for business or industrial use should normally not exceed
600 feet in length.
   (B)   Block width. The width of the block shall be sufficient to allow two
tiers of lots. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be of such
width as to be considered most suitable for their respective use, including
adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.31 LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area, lot width and lot depth shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning district in which the plat is situated as required
by
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to permit
appropriate building setback from both roads as required by
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to road or
street lines or radial to curved road or street lines.
   (D)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided, except where lots back on a
highway or other arterial road, or where topographic or other conditions render
subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such double frontage lots shall have an
additional depth of at least ten feet in order to allow space for screen
planting along the back lot line.
   (E)   Every lot must have the minimum required frontage on a public
dedicated road or street other than an alley, except in planned unit
developments. On curvilinear streets, the required frontage may be measured at
the building setback line.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.32 ROADS, HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The arrangement of highways shall conform as nearly as possible to the
County Comprehensive Plan. Except for cul-de-sacs, roads and streets normally
shall connect with roads and streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent
subdivisions, or provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided
tracts, or shall be a reasonable projection of roads in the nearest subdivided
tracts. The arrangement of highways shall be considered in their relation to
the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff
storm water, to public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation
in the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (B)   Local roads and streets should be so planned as to discourage their
use by non-local traffic. Dead-end streets and roads shall be prohibited, but
cul-de-sacs or approved “Tee” will be permitted where topography or other
conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet,
including a terminal turn-around which shall be provided at the closed end,
with an outside curb radius of at least 60 feet and a right-of-way radius of
not less than 66 feet or an approved “Tee”.
   (C)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street and road system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared
and submitted by the subdivider.
   (D)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
openings of future roads and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for
adequate utility connections for such resubdivision.
   (E)   Under normal conditions, roads shall be designed so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or other conditions
justify variations. Under normal conditions, the minimum angle of intersection
of roads shall be 80 degrees. Road intersection jogs with an offset of less
than 200 feet shall be avoided.
   (F)   Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to the
right-of-way of a county, state or federal highway, provision shall be made for
a marginal access street or road approximately parallel and adjacent to the
boundary of such right-of-way, or for a road at a distance suitable for the
appropriate use of land between such road and right-of-way. Such distance shall
be determined with due consideration for the minimum distance required for
approach connections to future grade separations, or for lot depths. In platted
subdivisions, individual lots will have no direct access to any county, state
or federal highway.
   (G)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts;
except that, this requirement may be waived where other definite and assured
provisions are made for service access, such as on-site loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where
justified by special conditions, such as the continuation of an existing alley
in the same block, alleys will not be approved in residential districts.
Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than 20 feet wide. Dead-end alleys
shall be avoided wherever possible, but, if unavoidable, such dead-end alleys
may be approved if adequate turn-around facilities are provided at the closed
end.
   (H)   Dedication of half streets or roads will not be approved, except where
it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in
conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, where it is found
that it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided, or where it becomes necessary to acquire the
remaining half by condemnation so that it may be improved in the public
interest.
   (I)   (1)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths for streets, roads and highways shall be as shown
in the County Comprehensive Plan, and where not shown therein, the minimum
right-of-way width for streets, roads, highways, alleys or pedestrian ways
included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for
each classification as follows:
Arterial highways
   Alley                      20 feet
   Local streets and roads    66 feet
   Marginal service access roa50 feet
   Minor arterial highway     100 feet
   Pedestrian way             10 feet
   Principal arterial highway 130 feet
Major intercity and regional highways
   Major intercity highway    150 feet
 
      (2)   Where the existing or anticipated traffic on major and minor
arterial highways warrants greater widths of right-of-way, these shall be
required. Right-of-way widths for major intercity highways shall also meet
standards established by the state’s Highway Department. Where any platted
subdivision abuts a public road including a township road, right-of-way
dedication from centerline of public road shall be provided in compliance with
above schedule but in no case shall said dedication be less than 50 feet.
      (3)   No exclusion of roads wholly within subdivision.
   (J)   Minor street access to existing highways shall not be permitted at
intervals of less than 600 feet.
   (K)   (1)   The grades in all streets, roads, highways and alleys in any
subdivision shall not be greater than the maximum grades for each
classification as follows:
 
Arterial highways
   Alley                8%
   Local streets and roa8%
 
      (2)   In addition, there shall be a minimum grade on all roads and
highways of not less than 0.5%.
   (L)   The horizontal and vertical alignment standards on all roads, highways
and streets shall be as follows.
      (1)   Horizontal, radii of centerline.
Arterial highways
Local streets and roads     100 feet
Minor arterial highways     As required by the state’s Transportation
                            Department
Principal arterial highways As required by the state’s Transportation
                            Department
Major intercity highways
Major intercity expressway  As required by the state’s Transportation
                            Department
Major intercity highways    As required by the state’s Transportation
                            Department
NOTES TO TABLE:
There shall be a tangent between all reversed curves of a length in relation
to the radii of the curves so as to provide for a smooth flow of traffic.
 
      (2)   Vertical, all changes in street grades shall be connected by
vertical parabolic curves of such length as follows.
 
Arterial highways        30 times the algebraic difference in the percent of
                         grade of the 2 adjacent slopes
Local streets and roads  20 times the algebraic difference in the percent of
                         grade of the 2 adjacent slopes
Major intercity highways As required by the state’s Transportation Department
 
      (M)   Subdivision road cross-section requirements.
      (1)   Width.
         (a)   All roads shall be subgraded to 32 feet minimum.
         (b)   Five ton aggregate base shall be consist of either:
            1.   Four inches of Class 5 on top of four inches of Class 3 or 4;
or
            2.   Seven inches of Class 5.
         (c)   Bituminous surface two inches thick and 22 feet wide shall be
completed at such time as 65% of the individual lots in the subdivision are
sold.
         (d)   Road base shall be at standard immediately before blacktopping
and approved by the County Engineer.
      (2)   Structure of roads.
         (a)   Five-ton aggregate base shall be applied first.
         (b)   A seven-ton roadway shall have a minimum two inches of
bituminous.
      (3)   Ditches.
         (a)   Side slope shall be a minimum three to one.
         (b)   Ditch bottom shall have a width minimum of four feet.
         (c)   Ditch depth shall be two feet from shoulder at minimum.
   (N)   All proposed public streets or roads shall be offered for dedication
as public right-of-way. Private street or roads shall not be permitted, except
upon approval as part of a planned unit development or in other instances when
specifically recommended by the County Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.33 EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall not be used for road purposes. Ingress and egress easements
of any type shall not be construed as public roads.
   (A)   An easement for utilities at least ten feet wide along the side line
and/or rear line of lots where necessary shall be provided for a continuous
right-of-way at least 20 feet in width. If necessary for the extension of main
water and sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of greater width may be
required along lot lines or across lots.
   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be
changed without the approval of the County Board, by ordinance, upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the outside
of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the exterior
angle so that pole guys will fall alongside lot lines.
   (D)   (1)   Where a subdivision contains or is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel, lake, stream or drainage field tile, one of the
following shall be provided at the discretion of the Planning Commission:
         (a)   A storm water easement;
         (b)   Drainage right-of-way; or
         (c)   Park dedication.
      (2)   These should conform to the lines of such water course along with
such further width as will be adequate to provide for property storm drainage
of the area. The width of such easement shall be recommended by the County
Engineer.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.34 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   In subdividing land or re-subdividing an existing plat, due
consideration shall be given to the subdivider and by the Planning Commission
upon review, to the dedication or reservation of suitable sites for schools,
parks, playgrounds, conservation areas or other public or semi-public
recreational areas or open spaces. Areas so dedicated or reserved shall conform
as nearly as possible to the Comprehensive Plan. Whenever the Comprehensive
Plan shows the proposed public area partially or completely within a proposed
subdivision, the area of said park or recreational area exceeds 7% of the total
area of the subdivision, the preliminary plat of said subdivision shall show
the proposed site as reserved and the county shall have one year from the date
of approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission in which to
purchase said land which exceeds the said 7% of the said total area, or to
initiate condemnation proceedings with respect thereto.
   (B)   In all subdivisions either 7% of the gross area of the subdivision or
10% of the raw land value shall be dedicated or paid to the county for public
recreation and parks. The County Planning Commission and the County Board shall
determine whether 7% of the gross area shall be dedicated or 10% of the raw
land value paid. Said 7% of the total gross area of the subdivision shall be in
addition to any dedication of streets, alleys and easements. The location of
said dedications within the area of the subdivision shall be subject to the
approval of the County Planning Commission and the County Board. The raw land
market value shall be determined by the County Assessor’s office.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.35 PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS.
   (A)   Contents. The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Proposed name and type of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or
too closely resemble names of existing subdivisions;
      (2)   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section, quarter
section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description of the
property;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the subdivider and the designer making the
plat, and names and addresses of adjoining property owners within 500 feet;
      (4)   Graphic scale of plat, not less than one inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   Date and north point;
      (6)   Existing conditions:
         (a)   Location, width and name of each existing or platted street,
road or other public open spaces, and permanent buildings, within or 200 feet
adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts, power or
communication cables, drainage tiles or other underground installations within
the proposed subdivision or 200 feet adjacent thereto; and
         (c)   Waterways, ditches, ponds, marshes and floodable low lands in a
plan which describe the existing conditions.
      (7)   Proposed development:
         (a)   The location and width of proposed streets, roads, alleys,
pedestrian ways and easements. Typical road cross-section shall be provided
showing grading within the right-of-way, traveled way width, type and thickness
of surfacing proposed, base course thickness and type;
         (b)   The location and character of all proposed public utility lines,
including sewers (storm and sanitary), water, gas and power lines;
         (c)   Layout, numbers or letters and approximate dimensions of lots
and the number of each block;
         (d)   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches,
school sites or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use, or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of all property
owners in the subdivision and any conditions of such dedication or reservation;
         (e)   Building setback lines with dimensions;
         (f)   Indication of any lots on which a use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider; and
         (g)   The zoning district, if any, on and adjacent to the tract.
      (8)   Vicinity sketch, at a legible scale, to show the relation of the
plat to its surroundings and an air photo at an approximate scale of one inch
equals 1,000 feet of the area to be platted and one mile in each direction from
the plat;
      (9)   Where lots to be platted are larger in area than 20,000 square feet
or greater than 150 feet in width at the building setback line, public sewer
and water facilities are unavailable and the plat is within one mile of a
municipality in the county, a preliminary re-subdivision plan shall be prepared
and submitted, showing a feasible method by which large lots may be re-
subdivided in the future for higher density development in the event that
public sewer and water facilities become available. The location of the
principal structure on each lot shall be shown and building permits will only
be issued for those structures which allow for economically feasible re-
subdivision;
      (10)   Existing topography, as determined necessary by the County Zoning
Administrator, including date of survey, with contour intervals of not less
than two feet, related to United States Geological Survey datum; also the
location of water courses, ravines, bridges, lakes, marshes, wooded areas, rock
outcroppings, approximate acreage, and other such features as may be pertinent
to the subdivision;
      (11)   (a)   Two copies of profiles for each proposed street and road,
showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients on the
centerline.
         (b)   Bridges shall be shown.
         (c)   A complete drainage plan shall be provided showing culvert
locations with culvert sizes no less than 15 inches in diameter.
         (d)   All culverts shown in approaches to county and township roads
will be provided by the developer. Approaches to individual lots shall meet the
frontage roads on a positive grade.
         (e)   All ditches and slopes shall be seeded and other erosion control
measures and devices provided where necessary as specified by the County
Highway Engineer.
      (12)   Proposed surface drainage diagrams for lots in the form of arrows,
proposed contours or other appropriate method.
   (B)   Supplementary requirements. Upon request of the Planning Commission,
supplementary information shall be submitted; such supplementary information
may include soil tests and reports, as specified by the County Engineer, by an
approved soils laboratory.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.36 DATA REQUIRED ON FINAL PLATS.
   The subdivider shall submit a final plat together with any necessary
supplementary information.
   (A)   Contents. The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be
prepared in accordance with provisions of M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended
from time to time, and as required below:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision;
      (2)   Naming of all streets and thoroughfares to be in accordance with
the county’s street naming system;
      (3)   The words “BLOCK ONE” to be spelled out on plats having only one
block;
      (4)   Lettering and numbering shown on the plat to be clear and legible;
      (5)   Scale of the plat to be shown both graphically and in feet per
inch;
      (6)   The plat shall indicate which monuments were set and which
monuments were found;
      (7)   The basis of the bearings shown on the plat shall be given;
      (8)   The boundaries of the plat shall be labeled as they are recited in
the description;
      (9)   Lines of different weight should be used on the exterior and the
interior lines; and
      (10)   All plats are to be of one standard size, 20 inches by 30 inches.
   (B)   Certification required on final plats. All signatures on each plat
shall be written with black ink (not ball point).
      (1)   Notarized certification by owner and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas and easements. Statement dedicating streets, utility and drainage
easements, and other public areas to be worded as follows:
 
... hereby donate and dedicate to the public for public use forever the
streets, roads, alleys, drives, utility and drainage easements and other public
areas as shown on the plat.
 
 
      (2)   Notarized certification by owner and by a registered land surveyor,
to be worded as follows:
 
I, (surveyor’s name) do hereby certify that this plat was prepared by me or
under my direct supervision; that I am a duly Licensed Land Surveyor in the
State of Minnesota; that this plat is a correct representation of the boundary
survey; that all mathematical data and labels are correctly designated on this
plat; that all monuments depicted on this plat have been, or will be correctly
set within one year; that all water boundaries and wet lands, as defined in
M.S. § 505.01, Subd. 3, as of the date of this certificate are shown and
labeled on this plat; and all public ways are shown and labeled on this plat.
Dated this _________ day of ___________, 20___.
_________________________________________
(Print name of surveyor), Licensed Land Surveyor
Minnesota License No. _____________________
 
 
      (3)   Certification showing that all taxes due on the property have been
paid in full:
 
Wright County Land Records
Pursuant to M.S. § 505.021, Subd. 9, taxes payable in the year 20___ on the
land hereinbefore described have been paid. Also, pursuant to M.S. § 272.12,
there are no delinquent taxes and transfer entered this ___ day of _______,
20___.
_________________________ By: _______________________
Wright County Land Records Administrator
 
      (4)   County Planning Commission:
 
WRIGHT COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION
Be it known that at a meeting held on this _________ day of ____________, 20____, the Planning Commission of the County of Wright,
Minnesota, did hereby approve this plat of NAME OF PLAT.
                                                                      
   Chairperson
 
 
      (5)   County Board of Commissioners:
 
WRIGHT COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
This plat of NAME OF PLAT was approved and accepted by the Board of County Commissioners of Wright County, Minnesota, at a meeting held this
_____ day of ___________________, 20_________.
                                                                       _________________________________
   Chairperson County Coordinator
 
 
      (6)   County Surveyor:
 
WRIGHT COUNTY SURVEYOR
I hereby certify that in accordance with M.S. § 505.021, Subd. 11, this plat has been reviewed and approved this ____ day of ___________,
20____.
                                                                      
   Wright County Surveyor
 
 
      (7)   County Highway Engineer:
 
WRIGHT COUNTY HIGHWAY ENGINEER
This plat was reviewed and recommended for approval this                day of                            , 20             .
                                                                      
   Wright County Highway Engineer
 
 
      (8)   County Recorder:
 
WRIGHT COUNTY RECORDER
I hereby certify that this instrument was filed in the office of the County Recorder for record on this              day of
                                          , 20           , at                 o’clock         .M., and duly recorded in Cabinet No.
                                   , Sleeve _____, Document No.                                          .
                                                                      
   Wright County Recorder
 
 
   (C)   Supplementary documents and information. This may be required as
follows:
      (1)   A complete set of street profiles showing grade lines as
constructed;
      (2)   Copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision or any
part thereof; and
      (3)   Signature of municipal and township officials when such approval is
required by law.
   (D)   Filing.
      (1)   Ten copies of the final plat shall be filed with the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   One “official plat” and two copies on photomat stock with linen
backing along with one copy on linen or Mylar reproducible shall be signed and
filed as provided by law. Three paper copies shall be signed, one of which
shall be sent to the township.
      (3)   One copy of the plat, at a scale of one inch equals 200 feet shall
be filed with the County Surveyor.
      (4)   At least one print of the final plat shall be deposited with the
County Auditor/Treasurer. This print shall contain the calculated square
footage of acreage of all lots and outlots shown on the plat.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979; Ord. 16-2, passed —; Ord. 21-2, passed 3-16-2021)
BASIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.50 GENERAL.
   (A)   Before a final plat is approved by the County Board, the subdivider of
the land covered by the said plat shall execute and submit to the County Board
an agreement, which shall be binding on his or their heirs, personal
representatives and assigns, that he or she will cause no private construction
to be made on said plat or file or cause to be filed any application for
building permits for such construction until all improvements required under
this chapter have been made or arranged for in the manner following as respects
the highways, roads or streets to which the lots sought to be constructed have
access.
   (B)   (1)   Agreement.
         (a)   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior
to approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall enter into a contract in
writing with the county requiring the subdivider to furnish and contract said
improvements at his or her sole cost and in accordance with plans and
specifications and usual contract conditions. The agreement shall require the
subdivider to make an escrow deposit or, in lieu thereof, to furnish a
performance bond acceptable to the County Attorney, the amount of the deposit
or penal amount of the bond to be equal to 150% of the engineer’s estimate of
the total cost of the improvements to be furnished under the contract,
including the cost of inspection. On request of the subdivider, the contract
may provide for completion of part or all of the improvements covered thereby
prior to the acceptance of the final plat. In such event, the amount of the
deposit or bond may be reduced in a sum equal to the estimated cost of the
improvements so completed prior to the acceptance of the final plat. The time
for completion of the work and several parts thereof shall be determined by the
County Planning Commission upon recommendation of the engineer after
consultation with the subdivider. It shall be reasonable with relation to the
work to be done, the seasons of the year and proper correlation with
construction activities in the plat and subdivision.
         (b)   No subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any other
subdivision without approval of the County Planning Commission if he or she has
previously defaulted on work or commitments.
      (2)   Financial guarantee.
         (a)   The contract provided for in division (B)(1) above shall require
the subdivider to make an escrow deposit, or in lieu thereof, furnish a
performance bond. The escrow deposit or performance bond shall conform to the
requirements of this regulation.
         (b)   An escrow deposit shall be made with the County Auditor/
Treasurer in a sum equal to 150% of the total cost as estimated by the County
Engineer of all improvements to be furnished and installed by the subdivider
pursuant to the contract, which have not been completed prior to the approval
of the final plat. The total costs shall include costs of inspection by the
county. The county shall be
entitled to reimburse itself out of said deposit for any cost and expenses
incurred by the county for completion of the work in case of default of the
subdivider under said contract, and for any damages sustained on account of any
breach thereof. Upon completion of the work and the liability, the balance
remaining of said deposit shall be refunded to the subdivider.
         (c)   In lieu of making the escrow deposits, the subdivider may
furnish a performance bond with corporate surety, in a penalty sum equal to
150% of the total cost as estimated by the County Engineer of all the
improvements to be furnished and installed by the subdivider pursuant to the
contract, which have not been completed prior to the approval of the final
plat. The total cost shall include costs of inspection by the county. The bond
shall be approved as to form by the County Attorney and filed with the County
Auditor/Treasurer.
   (C)   No final plat shall be approved by the County Board until the Board is
satisfied that the improvements described herein, together with the agreements
and documents required herein, meet the minimum requirements of all applicable
ordinances. Drawings showing all improvements as built shall be filed with the
County Engineer.
   (D)   No final plat shall be approved by the County Board on land subject to
flooding or containing poor drainage facilities and on land which would make
adequate drainage of streets, roads and lots impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the County
Board, make the area suitable for use without interfering with the flow of
water under flood conditions, the final plat of the subdivision may be
approved.
   (E)   All of the required improvements to be installed under the provisions
of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of the construction by an
agent of the County Board. All of the inspection costs pursuant thereto shall
be paid by the subdivider in the manner prescribed in division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.51 ROAD AND HIGHWAY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved, in accordance with standards and
specifications for road construction as approved by the County Board.
   (B)   Unless the township wherein a plat is located requests that no paving
be provided and the County Board accepts the township recommendations, all
roads to be paved shall be of an overall width in accordance with the standards
and specifications for road construction as approved by the County Board.
   (C)   Curb and gutter shall be constructed as required by the standards and
specifications for road construction as approved by the County Board.
   (D)   Storm sewers, culverts, storm water inlets and other drainage
facilities will be required where they are necessary to ensure adequate storm
water drainage for the subdivision. Where required, such drainage facilities
shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications for
road construction as approved by the County Board.
   (E)   Road signs of the standard design approved by the County Board shall
be installed at each street or road intersection.
   (F)   (1)   The number and types of access drives onto major streets shall
be controlled and limited in the interest of public safety and efficient
traffic flow.
      (2)   Access drives onto county roads shall require a permit from the
County Engineer. This permit shall be acquired prior to the issuance of any
building permits. The County Engineer shall determine the appropriate location,
size and design of such access drives and may limit the number of access drives
in the interest of public safety and efficient traffic flow. The County
Engineer may refer the request for an access drive permit onto a county road to
the Planning Commission for its comment.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.52 SANITARY SEWER AND WATER DISTRIBUTION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers, both public and private, shall be installed as
required by standards and specifications as approved by the County Board.
   (B)   Water facilities, both public and private, including pipe fittings,
hydrants and the like shall be installed as required by standards and
specifications as approved by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.53 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines where feasible, for telephone and electric service,
shall be placed in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (B)   Where telephone, electric and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or
dedicated public ways, in such a manner so as not to conflict with other
underground services. All drainage and other underground utility installations,
which traverse privately owned property, shall be protected by easements.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be unlawful to sell,
trade or offer to sell, trade or otherwise convey, any lot or parcel of land as
a part of, or in conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or
area located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless said plan, plat or
replat shall have first been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Receiving and recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful to
receive or record in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land laid
out in building lots and highways, streets, roads, alleys or other portions of
the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the Planning Commission and the
County Board.
   (C)   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision or inspection of
improvements. It shall be unlawful for any subdivider, person, firm or
corporation owning an addition or subdivision of land within the county to
represent that any improvement upon any of the highways, roads, streets or
alleys of said addition or subdivision or any sewer in said addition or
subdivision has been constructed according to the plans and specifications
approved by the County Board, or has been supervised or inspected by the
county, when such improvements have not been so constructed, supervised or
inspected.
   (D)   Penalty. Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or by a
commitment to jail for a period of not to exceed 90 days. Each day during which
compliance is delayed shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1979)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Intent and purpose
   
155.003   Rules and definitions
   
155.004   Application
   
155.005   Separability
   
155.006   Lot coverage
   
155.007   Lots of record
   
155.008   Non-conforming uses
   
155.009   Zoning coordination
   
155.010   Zoning and the policies plan
   
155.011   Substandard uses
   
155.012   Supremacy
   
155.013   Effective date
Administration
   
155.025   Zoning Administrator
   
155.026   Appeals and the Board of Adjustment
   
155.027   Planning Commission
   
155.028   Zoning amendments
   
155.029   Conditional use permits
   
155.030   Permits and fees
   
155.031   Interim use permits
Zoning Districts and District Provisions
   
155.045   Zoning districts
   
155.046   Zoning map
   
155.047   Agricultural/Residential (A/R)
   
155.048   General Agricultural (AG)
   
155.049   Urban/Rural Transition (R-1)
   
155.050   Suburban Residential (R-2)
   
155.051   Suburban Residential (R-2a)
   
155.052   Multiple-family Urban District (R-3)
   
155.053   Highway Business District (B-1)
   
155.054   General Business District (B-2)
   
155.055   General Industry District (I-1)
   
155.056   Floodplain Overlay District (FP)
   
155.057   Shoreland zoning regulations
   
155.058   Wild and Scenic River District (W)
   
155.059   Planned unit development
Performance Standards
   
155.075   Purpose
   
155.076   Exterior storage
   
155.077   Refuse
   
155.078   Screening and fences
   
155.079   Landscaping maintenance
   
155.080   Glare
   
155.081   Parking
   
155.082   Traffic control
   
155.083   Trees and woodland preservation
   
155.084   Soil erosion and sediment control
   
155.085   Explosives
   
155.086   Guest house
   
155.087   Drive-in business development standards
   
155.088   Nuisances
   
155.089   Auto service stations
   
155.090   Sewage and wastewater treatment and disposal standards
   
155.091   Dwelling units prohibited
   
155.092   Relocation of structures
   
155.093   Vacated streets
   
155.094   Permitted encroachments
   
155.095   Access drives and access
   
155.096   Irrigation systems
   
155.097   Sign regulations
   
155.098   Essential services
   
155.099   Mobile home parks
   
155.100   Mining and extraction
   
155.101   Land alterations
   
155.102   Single-family dwelling standards
   
155.103   Rules and definition of home extended business
   
155.104   Performance standards for retreat centers
   
155.105   Farmland preservation property tax credit program
   
155.106   Antennas and support structures
   
155.107   Wind energy conversion systems
   
155.108   Solar energy farms and solar energy systems
   
155.109   Commercial agricultural tourism
   
155.110   Public schools
   
155.111   Treatment and recovery facilities
   
155.112   Cannabis zoning regulations
Adult Uses
   
155.135   Adult Uses Overlay District (AU)
   
155.136   Adult uses licensing and performance standards
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter, which is the 1978 amendment to the County Zoning Ordinance,
shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Wright County Zoning Ordinance”
and may be referred to herein as “this chapter”.
§ 155.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare;
   (B)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational and public areas;
   (C)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the
community;
   (D)   Conserving and developing natural resources;
   (E)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the community; and
   (F)   Protect agricultural area.
§ 155.003 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction.
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future the present.
      (3)   The word “shall” is mandatory, and the word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      (5)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be constructed as set forth in such definition.
      (6)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest
tenth of a foot.
      (7)   In the event of conflicting provisions within this chapter, the
more restrictive provision shall apply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure or portion of a
structure subordinate to and serving the principal use structure on the same
lot and customarily incidental thereto. Detached accessory structures and
garages on lots less than one acre shall not have a second story, must have no
more than six feet of headroom in a rafter storage area, and have a maximum 6/
12 roof pitch. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES, individually and combined
(not to include attached garages nor decks), on residential parcels smaller
than ten acres in size shall not exceed the following maximum size limits.
 
Parcel Size                 Max. Building Area Max. Sidewall
Less than 20,000 sq. ft.    1,000 square feet  14 feet
20,000 sq. ft. - 0.99 acres 1,600 square feet  14 feet
1 - 2.49 acres              2,400 square feet  14 feet
2.5 - 4.99 acres            3,200 square feet  14 feet
5 - 9.99 acres              4,000 square feet  16 feet
* Parcels classified as public lands are exempt from the maximum size limits
stated herein.
 
      (2)   ACCESS DRIVE (DRIVEWAY). An improved area of any lot or parcel
which is used for vehicular access or parking.
      (3)   ADDITION, BUILDING. Any construction that expands the footprint,
livable space or volume of a building, such as a porch, basement, an additional
level or floor, attached garage, carport, new room or roof pitch or wall height
change.
      (4)   ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person charged with enforcement
of this chapter.
      (5)   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land for the growing and/or production
of field crops, livestock and livestock products for the production of income
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Field crops, including: barley, soy beans, corn, hay, oats,
potatoes, rye, sorghum and sunflowers;
         (b)   Livestock, including: dairy and beef cattle, goats, horses,
sheep, hogs, poultry, game birds and other animals including ponies, deer,
rabbits and mink; and
         (c)   Livestock products, including: milk, butter, cheese, eggs, meat,
fur and honey.
      (6)   AIRPORT or HELIPORT. Any land or structure which is used or
intended for use for the landing and take-off of aircraft, and for appurtenant
land or structure used or intended for use for port buildings or other port
structures of rights-of-way.
      (7)   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal wastes which has as a standard the amount of waste
produced on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer. For purposes of
this chapter, the definition and units of measure contained in Minn. Rules part
7020.0300, subpart 5, shall apply.
      (8)   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities
available which is occupied as a residence by a single family, or group of
individuals living together as a single family unit. This includes any units in
buildings with more than two dwelling units.
      (9)   AUTO OR MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where one or
more unlicensed motor vehicles, or the remains thereof, are kept for the
purpose of dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of
parts, sale as scrap, storage or abandonment. (See also JUNK YARD.)
      (10)   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but
having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade
of the adjoining ground. For floodplain regulatory purposes, BASEMENT shall
include any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor or
base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the depth
of excavation below ground level.
      (11)   BED AND BREAKFAST. A single-family dwelling with furnished
bedrooms provided to guests, at which meals may be served to guests by the
permanent residents, which is kept, used or advertised as, or held out to the
public to be, a place where sleeping accommodations are supplied for pay to
guests for transient occupancy as defined in M.S. §327.70, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, but in no case shall continuous occupancy exceed
30 days. There shall be offered for guests no more than four bedroom units per
single family dwelling, accommodating not more than two adult persons per unit.
One guesthouse, as defined in §
155.086 of this chapter, located on the same property, may be used as one of
the permitted four units for an approved BED AND BREAKFAST; provided that, the
residence on the property does include at least one unit.
      (12)   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment
having the following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less
than 18% over a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of a
BLUFF):
         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the water body;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope drains toward the water body.
      (13)   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from
the top of a bluff.
      (14)   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points
at which the slope becomes less than 13%. This applies to those slopes within
the land use district(s) which are beyond the setback provisions from the
ordinary high water mark.
      (15)   BOARDINGHOUSE (ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE). A building other than a
motel or hotel where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite
periods, meals or lodging are provided for three or more persons, but not to
exceed 20 persons.
      (16)   BOATHOUSE. A one-story structure not to exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety railing, designed and used solely for the storage of boats
or boating equipment, the top of which may be used as an open deck with safety
railings. A BOATHOUSE shall not be allowed to serve as living quarters and
shall not contain sanitary facilities.
      (17)   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattel or property of any kind and when said
structures are divided by party walls without openings, each portion of such
building so separated shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.
      (18)   BUILDING CODE. Minnesota State Building Code as adopted by the
county.
      (19)   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high
water level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
      (20)   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the
building and a lot line.
      (21)   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein
merchandise is exhibited, stored, sold or where services are offered for
compensation.
      (21a)   CANNABIS. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (22)   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open.
      (23)   CHURCH. A building and uses, where persons regularly assemble for
religious worship and which building, and uses, is maintained and controlled by
a religious body organized to sustain public worship.
      (24)   CLEAR-CUTTING. “Intensive vegetative clearing” including the
complete removal of trees or shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
      (25)   COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL TOURISM. A rural commercial operation that
is connected to a primary agricultural use and may include orchards, wineries,
the promotion of agriculture or the natural environment, or the use of the
rural outdoor environment for events such as weddings and gatherings.
COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL TOURISM may allow for the construction of accessory
structures to be used for events and special gatherings of people to be held
within such structures. Food catering and limited food preparation, along with
limited retail that is directly associated with the COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL
TOURISM use may be allowed.
      (26)   COMMISSIONER. Commissioner of Department of Natural Resources.
      (27)   COMMUNITY WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS. Utilities systems serving a
group of buildings, lot or any area of the community, with the design and
construction of such utility systems as approved by the community and the
state.
      (28)   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN or POLICIES PLAN. A compilation of goals,
policy statements, standards, programs and maps for guiding the physical,
social and economic development, both public and private, of the county and its
environs, as defined in the state’s County Planning Act, M.S. Ch. 364, and
includes any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to
such plan or parts thereof.
      (29)   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development that would not be
appropriate generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions upon a
finding that certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the
use or development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the
community, and the use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      (30)   CONTRACTORS YARD, NON-COMMERCIAL. Buildings and structures,
including limited outdoor storage, located on the homestead of a contractor in
the building trades or other similar business, for the purpose of storing
machinery and equipment related to the business which is primarily conducted
off-site. All storage and screening requirements in §§
155.076 through
155.079 of this chapter must be met, all building size requirements must be met
and the use must be clearly incidental to the primary use of the property as a
homestead. (Pre-existing yards will not be required to obtain an interim use
permit; provided, all ordinance requirements are met.)
      (31)   COUNTY BOARD. Wright County Board of Commissioners
      (32)   CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation established by the governing body
of the curb in front of the center of the building. Where no curb level has
been established, the engineering staff shall determine a CURB LEVEL or its
equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
      (33)   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached
railings, seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related
to a principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet
above ground.
      (34)   DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to
the customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car
or where fast service to the automobile occupants is a service offered
regardless of whether service is also provided within a building.
      (35)   DUPLEX. A detached residential building containing two dwelling
units.
      (36)   DWELLING ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling
at one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
      (37)   DWELLING DETACHED. A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open
space on the same lot.
      (38)   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended
for occupancy by a single-family, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses or tourist homes.
      (39)   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of
land by the public or for any person for any specific purpose or purposes but
not for purposes of ingress and egress to residential areas.
      (40)   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments of underground or
overhead telephone, gas, electrical, communication, water or sewer
transmission, distribution, collection, supply or disposal systems, including
poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, switches, civil
defense sirens, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants
and other similar equipment, appurtenances, facilities, and accessories in
connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by such private or
public utilities or municipal departments. Antennas and support structures as
defined in § 155.106 of this chapter shall not be considered an ESSENTIAL
SERVICE.
      (41)   EXTERIOR STORAGE (INCLUDES OPEN STORAGE). The storage of goods,
materials, equipment, manufactured products and similar items not fully
enclosed by a building.
      (42)   EXTRACTION AREA. Any non-agricultural artificial excavation of
earth exceeding fifty square feet of surface area or two feet in depth,
excavated or made by the removal from the natural surface of the earth, or sod,
soil, sand, gravel, stone or other natural matter, or made by turning, or
breaking or undermining of the earth.
      (43)   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit.
      (44)   FARM. A tract of land, ten acres or more in size, which is
principally used for agricultural activities such as the production of cash
crops, livestock or poultry farming. Such FARM may include agricultural
dwelling and accessory buildings and structures necessary to the operation of
the farm.
      (45)   FARM ACCESSORY MOBILE HOME OR STRUCTURE. A mobile home or
structure with livable area placed on a farm which already has a primary
residence on the same parcel or nearby land under the same homestead, said
mobile home or structure to be used as a temporary residence by a family member
or farm employee. Farm employment must be the primary occupation of the
resident of the mobile home or structure, and the applicant for such a mobile
home or structure must demonstrate the need for such occupant to be located on
the farm site in addition to the primary farm residence. No such mobile home or
structure shall be allowed as the primary or only residence on any parcel. Any
structure with livable area must share access with the primary farm residence
or the farm operation and shall be within 750 feet of the primary farm
residence or the farm operation.
      (46)   FEED LOTS, LIVESTOCK. The place of confined feeding of livestock
or other animals for food, fur, pleasure or resale purposes in yards, lots,
pens, buildings or other areas not normally used for pasture or crops in which
substantial amounts of manure or related other wastes may originate by reason
of such feeding of animals.
      (47)   FENCE. A fence is defined for the purpose of this chapter as any
partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing marker, barrier or
enclosure and located along the boundary, or along the required yard.
      (48)   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      (49)   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space and
including any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
However, the FLOOR AREA shall not include: basement floor area other than area
devoted to retailing activities; the production of processing of goods; or to
business or professional offices.
      (50)   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing
the gross floor area of a building or buildings by the net area of the lot or
parcel of land on which such building or buildings are located.
      (51)   FLOOR PLAN. A graphic representation of the anticipated
utilization of the floor area within a building or structure but not
necessarily as detailed as construction plans.
      (52)   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to
prepare for a new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest
stand, not to include normal clearing for permitted, interim or conditional
uses.
      (53)   FORESTRY. The use and management including logging, of a forest,
woodland or plantation and related research and educational activities,
including the construction, alteration or maintenance of woodroads, skidways,
landings and fences.
      (54)   FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or
dedicated public street.
      (55)   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon the premises.
      (56)   GOVERNING BODY. The Wright County Board.
      (57)   HARDSHIP. The same as that term is defined in M.S. Ch. 394 (for
counties), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (58)   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance between the highest
adjoining ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground
level, whichever is lower, and the highest point of any roof.
      (59)   HIGHWAY. Any public thoroughfare or vehicular right-of-way with a
federal or state numerical route designation; any public thoroughfare or
vehicular right-of-way with a county numerical route designation.
      (60)   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation of a service character which is
clearly secondary to the main use of the premises as a dwelling and does not
change the character thereof or exhibit any exterior evidence of such secondary
use. Such OCCUPATION shall be conducted or carried on only by the person
residing on the premises.
      (61)   HORTICULTURE. Horticultural uses and structures designed for the
storage of products and machinery pertaining and necessary thereto.
      (62)   HOTEL. A building which provides a common entrance, lobby, halls
and stairway and in which 20 or more people are, for compensation, lodged with
or without meals.
      (63)   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that is incapable of being
penetrated by water and thereby restricts percolation of water into the ground
or does not maintain a vegetative cover. IMPERVIOUS SURFACES include, but are
not limited to, the footprint of all structures or buildings, decks, stairways,
lifts and landings, patios, sidewalks and all driving and parking areas. Any
overhangs or cantilevers that extend more than 24 inches from the foundation
shall be included in this calculation.
      (64)   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of a property until a particular
date, until the occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations
no longer permit it.
      (65)   INTERIM USE PERMIT. A permit that allows a use that is for a
limited period of time, subject to conditions set forth in this chapter or as
established by the Planning Commission.
      (66)   IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Any structure or equipment, mechanical or
otherwise, used to supply water to cultivated fields or supplement normal
rainfall including, but not limited to, wells, pumps, motors, pipes, culverts,
gates, dams, ditches, tanks, ponds and reservoirs.
      (67)   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, used or second-hand materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags,
rubber, tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes an auto wrecking yard, but does
not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings. This
definition does not include sanitary landfills.
      (68)   KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which four or more dogs over
four months of age are kept for pets, sale, breeding, profit and the like.
      (69)   LANDSCAPING. Planting such as trees, grass and shrubs.
      (70)   LIVESTOCK WASTE LAGOON. A diked enclosure for disposal of
livestock wastes by natural process.
      (71)   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but
without cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms, without cooking facilities,
each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one
LODGING ROOM.
      (72)   LOT. A parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land,
separated from other parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision or
record of survey map, for the purpose of sale or lease or separate use thereof.
      (73)   LOT AREA. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the
lot lines. Only land above the ordinary high water level can be used to meet
LOT AREA standards.
      (74)   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on
two or more intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in
alignment of a continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed
135 degrees.
      (75)   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line of a lot.
      (76)   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot; except that, where any
portion of a lot extends into the public right-of-way shall be the lot line for
applying this chapter.
      (77)   LOT LINE FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or
dedicated public street and, in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the
shortest dimension on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are
equal, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the owner and filed with the
County Recorder.
      (78)   LOT LINE REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front
lot line. If the rear line is less than ten feet in length or, if the lot forms
a point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
      (79)   LOT LINE SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line
or a rear lot line.
      (80)   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly
approved and filed, or one unit of any auditor’s subdivision or a registered
land survey that has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder, prior
to the effective date of this chapter. LOT OF RECORD shall also include parcels
of land for which a deed or contract for deed has been recorded in the office
of the County Recorder prior to 8-2-1978; provided that said parcel or parcels
were legally created in accord with ordinances in effect at the time the deed
or contract was recorded.
      (81)   LOT SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder upon or prior to the effective
date of this chapter which does not meet the minimum lot area, structure
setbacks or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
      (82)   LOT, THROUGH. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines
abutting two substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. On
a THROUGH LOT, both street lines shall be front lot lines for applying this
chapter.
      (83)   LOT WIDTH. The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot
lines of a lot measured within the first 30 feet of the lot depth. The lot
width shall determine the required road frontage and shoreline frontage for
lots.
      (84)   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non- elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
      (85)   MAINTENANCE. The normal upkeep of a structure including the
replacement of windows, siding, external roof surfaces or exterior finish, such
as paint or stain.
      (86)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure manufactured in accord with the
Manufactured Home Building Code as defined in M.S. Ch. 327B, as it may be
amended from time to time, and meeting the definition in M.S. Ch. 327B, as it
may be amended from time to time. For the purpose of this chapter, MANUFACTURED
HOMES which comply with the standards listed in §
155.102 of this chapter shall be considered to be single-family dwellings.
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (87)   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of
their direction and distance from an easily identifiable point.
      (88)   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other
material from the land in the amount of one thousand cubic yards or more and
the removing thereof from the site shall be MINING. The only exclusion from
this definition shall be removal of minerals associated with construction of a
building provided such removal is an approved item in the building permit.
      (89)   MOBILE HOME. For the purposes of this chapter, any manufactured
home, as defined above, which does not meet the standards in §
155.102 of this chapter. MOBILE HOMES to be used for residential purposes must
have a minimum floor area of 800 square feet on the main floor. Structures
which do not meet these minimum standards shall not be permitted for
residential purposes, except when located within legally established mobile
home parks.
      (90)   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land under
single ownership designed, maintained or intended for the placement of two or
more occupied mobile homes. MOBILE HOME PARK shall include any buildings,
structure, vehicle or enclosure intended for use as part of the equipment of
such mobile home park.
      (91)   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual mobile home lot which
has been reserved for placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures or
additions.
      (92)   MOTEL (TOURIST COURT). A building or group of detached, semi-
detached or attached buildings containing guest rooms or dwellings, with garage
or parking space conveniently located to each unit, and which is designed, used
or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of automobile
transients.
      (93)   MULTIPLE RESIDENCE (APARTMENT BUILDING). Three or more dwelling
units in one structure.
      (94)   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structural alteration to a building that
exceeds 50% of the value of the structure or 50% of the footprint, whichever is
more restrictive, shall be considered NEW CONSTRUCTION. The value is to be
determined by calculating the square footage value based on the construction
value worksheet used by the county at the time.
      (95)   NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business growing and selling trees,
flowering and decorative plants and shrubs and which may be conducted within a
building or without, for the purpose of landscape construction.
      (96)   NURSING HOME. A building with facilities for the care of children,
the aged, infirm or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder. Said
NURSING HOME shall be licensed by the state’s Board of Health as provided for
in M.S. § 144.50, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (97)   OBSTRUCTION (FLOODPLAIN). Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee,
dike, pile, abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert,
building, wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along,
across or projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain
which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either
in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
      (98)   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the governing body, in
accordance with state statutes, showing streets, highways, parks and drainage,
both existing and proposed.
      (99)   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from a street, alley,
or driveway for the use of trucks or other vehicles while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. Such space shall be of size as to accommodate one
vehicle of the type used in the particular business.
      (100)   OPEN SALES LOT (EXTERIOR STORAGE). Any land used or occupied for
the purpose of buying and selling any goods, materials or merchandise and for
the storing of same under the open sky prior to sale.
      (101)   OPEN SPACE USE. A use oriented to and utilizing the outdoor,
unimproved, natural character of an area; including trails, primitive
campsites, waysides, parks and general recreation uses.
      (102)   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. A mark delineating the highest water
level which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave
evidence upon the landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that
point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to
predominantly terrestrial. In areas where the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is not
evident, setbacks shall be measured from the top of the stream bank of the
following water bodies that have permanent flow or open water: the main
channel; adjoining side channels; backwaters; and sloughs.
      (103)   PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained
area on privately-owned property either within or outside of a building of
sufficient size to store a standard automobile.
      (104)   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across or within
a block, to be used by pedestrians.
      (105)   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An urban development having two or more
principal uses or structures on a single lot and developed according to any
approved plan. Where appropriate, this development control advocates:
         (a)   A mixture of land uses, one or more of the non-residential uses
being regional in nature;
         (b)   The clustering of residential land uses providing common and
public open space, the former to be maintained either by the residents of the
development or the local community; and
         (c)   Increased administrative discretion to a local professional
planning staff and the setting aside of present land use regulations and rigid
plat approval processes.
      (106)   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the county,
except when otherwise designated.
      (107)   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. One which determines the predominant
use as contrasted to accessory use or structure. Only one principal structure
or use shall be permitted per lot, except as expressly permitted elsewhere in
this chapter.
      (108)   PROPERTY LINE.
         (a)   The more restrictive of either the legal boundaries of a parcel
of property, or a right-of-way line of a road, cartway and the like, including
a zoning district boundary line. For zoning purposes, PROPERTY LINE is
unaffected by change in property ownership, including the common ownership of
adjacent parcels of property, lots, lot lines or lots of record.
         (b)   Non-conforming lots of record in the same zoning district that
are owned by the same entity may be combined for residential purposes by order
of the Zoning Administrator.
      (109)   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A contract in readable form entered into
between private parties which constitutes a restriction of the use of a
particular parcel of property.
      (110)   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by municipal, school
district, county, state or other governmental units.
      (111)   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, as they
may be amended from time to time.
      (112)   RECLAMATION LAND. The improvement of land by deposition movement
of material to elevate the grade. Any parcel upon which 500 cubic yards or more
of fill are deposited (50 cubic yards in shoreland areas) shall be considered
as RECLAIMED LAND.
      (113)   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL. Includes all uses such as bowling alleys,
driving ranges and movie theaters that are privately owned and operated with
the intention of earning a profit by providing entertainment for the public.
      (114)   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Commercial recreation which
requires large land areas or location in a rural setting such as golf courses,
driving ranges, flea markets, shooting ranges and the like, but not to include
campgrounds, nor recreational vehicle camps.
      (115)   RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Play apparatus such as swing sets and
slides, sandboxes, poles for nets, unoccupied boats and trailers not exceeding
20 feet in length, picnic tables, lawn chairs, barbecue stands and similar
equipment or structures, but not including tree houses, swimming pools or sheds
utilized for storage of equipment.
      (116)   RECREATION, PUBLIC. Includes all uses such as tennis courts, ball
fields, picnic areas and the like that are commonly provided for the public at
parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites owned and operated by a
unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
      (117)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single
chassis, is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use. Those vehicles not meeting this definition shall be considered a structure
for the purposes of this chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, the
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
      (118)   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed
to simplify a complicated metes and bounds description, designating the same
into a tract of tracts of a registered land survey number. See M.S. § 508.47,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (119)   REMODEL. An alteration of the interior or exterior portion of the
existing structure to include work performed on the interior of a structure
(provided, the work performed does not increase the number of bedrooms or
increase water usage), maintenance and adding windows and doors. Under no
circumstances shall REMODELING constitute the replacement of the main
structural frame, walls or changes in the exterior dimensions of the structure.
      (120)   RETREAT CENTER. A semipublic use oriented to using the natural
features and outdoor character of the area for short-term stays and featuring
educational, contemplative and human development workshop and related training
activities, which may include the following: religious worship and workshops;
passive recreation (non-motorized) oriented to appreciating the outdoor and
natural character of the area; a nature center, conservatory, interpretive
center, exhibit, museum or library space; residential buildings (cabins) for
short-term occupancy by a single family or unrelated individuals attending an
educational or similar event or workshop at the retreat (but not designed or
intended for use as a residence); and/or having limited communal facilities for
dining, sanitation, meeting, educational or worship purposes.
      (121)   RIDING ACADEMIES. Includes stables and riding facilities, both
outdoor and indoor, operated as a commercial recreation use with the intention
of earning a profit by providing entertainment for the public.
      (122)   ROAD. A public right-of-way affording primary access by
pedestrians and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue boulevard,
lane, place or however other designated. Ingress and egress easements shall not
be considered ROADS.
      (123)   SCHOOL. As defined within M.S. § 120.05, as it may be amended
from time to time, and M.S. § 123B.41, subd. 9 and 10, as they may be amended
from time to time.
      (124)   SEASONAL STORAGE. The use of an accessory building for the
purposes of renting or leasing indoor storage space for the storing and removal
of personal property, where the facility is open to the public in the spring
and fall on a limited seasonal basis. An interim use permit for seasonal
storage shall be required for such use. The accessory structure must meet all
requirements of the Minnesota State Building Code. Outdoor storage shall be
prohibited.
      (125)   SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered trees.
      (126)   SEMI-PUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, non-profit
organization to provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some
persons outside the regular constituency of the organization.
      (127)   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of
areas unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such
as shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive
soils, steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna
in need of special protection.
      (128)   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a
structure, sewage treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water
level, sewage treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or
other regulated facility.
      (129)   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system
or other individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and
regulated in §
155.090 of this chapter.
      (130)   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM, PUBLIC. A system owned and operated by a
city, township, county or other governmental entity recognized by state
statute, including the sewage treatment plant, and all pipelines or conduits,
pumping stations, force main and all other construction, devices, appliances or
appurtenances used for conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to
the treatment plant. This definition does not include cluster systems, nor any
ITS as defined by MPCA regulations, nor any privately owned and operated sewage
treatment systems.
      (131)   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force
main, and all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of treatment.
      (132)   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water
level of a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the
structure setback.
      (133)   SHORELAND.
         (a)   Land located within the following distances from public waters.
            1.   One thousand feet from the normal high water mark of a lake,
pond, flowage; and
            2.   Three hundred feet from a river or stream or the landward
extend of a floodplain designated by ordinance on such river or stream,
whichever is greater.
         (b)   The practical limits of SHORELANDS may be less whenever the
waters involved are bounded by natural topographic divides which extend
landward from the water for less distances and when approved by the
Commissioner.
      (134)   SIDEWALL HEIGHT. The vertical distance between the lowest exposed
floor and the point where the wall meets the roof truss. “Tuck-under” garages
may be allowed provided only one wall is more than 25% exposed and the exposed
wall is no more than twice the allowable SIDEWALL HEIGHT.
      (135)   SIGN. Any structure or device that has a visual display that is
visible from a public right-of-way and is designed to identify, announce,
direct, or inform.
      (136)   SIGN, DYNAMIC. Any sign with a characteristic that appears to
have movement or that appears to change, caused by any method other than
physically removing and replacing the sign face or its components. This
definition includes a display that incorporates a technology or method allowing
the sign face to change the image without having to replace the sign face or
its components physically or mechanically. This definition also includes any
rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated graphic or
illumination, and any graphic that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights
manipulated through digital input, “digital ink” or any other method or
technology that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
      (137)   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which such illumination
is not kept stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use.
      (138)   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters,
figures, designs or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes
as a part of the sign.
      (139)   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by
mechanical means.
      (140)   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single,
continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface.
It does not include any structural elements outside the limits such sign and
not forming an integral part of the display. Only one side of a double-faced or
V-type sign structure shall be used in computing total SURFACE AREA.
      (141)   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing
structure or other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the
National Register of Historic Places or is listed in the state’s Register of
Historic Sites, or is determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under
the provisions of M.S. § 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A
historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed on either register
or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for listing after review by
the state’s archaeologist or the director of the state’s Historical Society.
All unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be SIGNIFICANT
HISTORIC SITES.
      (142)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached permanent structure, designed
for use by one family only, which contains at least one story with a floor area
of at least 800 square feet and is constructed in accord with all applicable
codes and ordinances in the county. Mobile homes are not considered as
permitted SINGLE DWELLINGS, except as expressly permitted elsewhere in this
chapter.
      (143)   SOLAR ENERGY FARMS. A solar array composed of multiple solar
panels on ground-mounted rack or poles which are the primary land use for the
parcel on which it is located and is greater than 200 kilowatts alternating
current (AC) rated capacity.
      (144)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. A solar panel or array mounted on a
building, pole or rack that is secondary to the primary use of the parcel on
which it is located and is 200 kilowatts alternating current (AC) rated
capacity and under.
      (145)   SPECIAL PROTECTION. A zoned area, the purpose of which is to
manage areas unsuitable for development.
      (146)   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is
either not recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and
the site’s soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county
soil surveys or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and
construction techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Where specific information is not available, STEEP
SLOPES are lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal
distances of 50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
      (147)   STREET. A public right-of-way which afford’s primary means of
access to abutting property, and shall also include avenue, highway, road or
way.
      (148)   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which serves or is designed to serve
as a trafficway for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major road.
      (149)   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve primarily as access to
abutting properties.
      (150)   STREET, MAJOR OR THOROUGHFARE. A street which serves or is
designed to serve heavy flows of traffic and which is used primarily as a route
for traffic between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
      (151)   STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed surface of the roadway
used by vehicular traffic.
      (152)   STREET WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way, measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
      (153)   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of
any floor and the surface of the floor next above. For the purpose of height
regulations, a basement shall not be counted as a STORY.
      (154)   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs,
which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
      (155)   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground; or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground. Construction of a building or structure on
skids or other non-permanent fixture shall not obviate the requirement for a
building permit or compliance with setback standards in this chapter.
      (156)   SUBDIVISION. The dividing of any parcel of land into two or more
parcels. For floodplain regulatory purposes, SUBDIVISION shall mean land that
has been divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or lease, including planned
unit developments.
         (a)   PLATTED SUBDIVISION. If any resultant parcel is less than five
acres in area and less than 300 feet in width and the subdividing was done for
the purpose of transfer of ownership to effectuate building development or if a
new street or road is involved, regardless of the size of the parcel and/or its
width, subsequent parcels must be platted in accordance with the terms and
procedure of Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   UNPLATTED SUBDIVISION. A division of any parcel of land into two
or more parts where in all parts are at least five acres and at least 300 feet
in width and have frontage on an existing public road. Ingress and egress
easements of any type shall not be construed as public roads. These do not
require platting, but shall be zoned for the appropriate use.
      (157)   SUBDIVISION MOBILE HOME. A subdivision containing a minimum of
ten lots, allowing both conventional homes and mobile homes. Existing
subdivisions containing a minimum of 30% mobile homes, shall be defined as
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS. The creation of new mobile home subdivisions is
prohibited.
      (158)   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. As defined by Minn. Rules
part 6120.2500, subpart 18a.
      (159)   TOE OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as
visually observed, a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from gentler to
steeper slope above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOE OF THE BLUFF
shall be the lower end of a 50-foot segment with an average slope exceeding
18%.
      (160)   TOP OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as
visually observed, a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to
gentler slope above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOP OF THE BLUFF
shall be the upper end of a 50-foot segment with an average slope exceeding
18%.
      (161)   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family building attached to party walls with
other single-family buildings, and oriented so that all exits open to the
outside.
      (162)   TRAVEL TRAILER/PARK TRAILER. A trailer mounted on wheels which is
designed to provide temporary living quarters during recreation, camping or
travel, does not require a special highway moving permit based on its size or
weight when towed by a motor vehicle, and is less than 40 feet in length
(including hitches) and less than 102 inches in width. A PARK TRAILER is a
travel trailer which is 102 inches or more in width, and no larger than 400
square feet when any collapsible components or additions are fully extended.
Any trailer larger than these dimensions shall be considered to be a mobile
home. (See §
155.091 of this chapter for trailer regulations.)
      (163)   TREATMENT AND RECOVERY FACILITY. A use in which clients reside 24
hours per day under the care and supervision of a chemical dependency treatment
or recovery program overseen by a staff member with a state-issued professional
license in mental health or chemical dependency. The operator of the facility
must be affiliated with a chemical dependency treatment provider licensed
according to M.S. Ch. 245G, or certified according to Minn. Rules, parts
2960.045 to 2960.0490. Treatment and recovery facilities shall not include
facilities that are also eligible for licensure or certification by the
Minnesota Department of Corrections.
      (164)   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building
thereon is designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied,
utilized or maintained.
      (165)   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and serving the principal
use or structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
      (166)   USE, NON-CONFORMING. Use of land, buildings or structures legally
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter which does not comply with the
use restrictions governing the zoning district in which such use is located.
      (167)   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms
with the purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations and performance
standards of a particular district.
      (168)   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either
permitted, interim or conditional.
      (169)   USE, SUBSTANDARD. A legal use or structure existing prior to the
enactment of the county’s zoning ordinances which is a permitted, interim or
conditional use or structure within the applicable zoning district, but does
not meet the minimum lot area, water frontage, structure setbacks or other
dimensional standards.
      (170)   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the strict terms of this
chapter, as applied to a specific piece of property, in order to provide relief
for a property owner because of undue hardship or peculiar difficulty imposed
upon him or her by this chapter; except that, modification in the allowable
uses within a district shall not be considered a VARIANCE. VARIANCES shall
normally be limited to height, bulk, density and yard requirements. As defined
in M.S. § 394.27, subd. 7, as amended from time to time.
      (171)   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above
ground structure or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and
retaining walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface
water feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the
normal structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached
ground level platforms or landings.
      (172)   WETLAND. A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition).
         (a)   An electrical generating facility comprised of one or more wind
turbines and accessory facilities, including, but not limited to: power lines;
transformers; substations; and meteorological towers that operate by converting
the kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy.
         (b)   The energy may be used on-site or distributed into the
electrical grid.
      (174)   YARD. Any space in the same lot with a building open and
unobstructed from the ground to the sky.
      (175)   YARD, FRONT. The area extending across the front of the lot
between the side yard lines and lying between the center line of the road or
highway and the nearest line of the building; except, on riparian lots, the
FRONT YARD will be taken to be that part of the lot that faces the water.
      (176)   YARD, REAR. An open unoccupied space, except for accessory
buildings on the same lot with a building between the rear lines of the
building and the rear line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
      (177)   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on a lot between the main
building and the side line of the lot, extending from the front of the lot to
the rear of the lot.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 16-01, passed 5--2016; Ord.
16-2, passed ---; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 17-3, passed ---; Ord. 18-
2, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 19-4, passed 8-27-2019;
Ord. 20-1, passed 12-29-2020; Ord. 21-5, passed 1-18-2022; Ord. 21-5A, passed
1-18-2022; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 24-4,
passed 6-4-2024; Ord. 24-7, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 155.004 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall prevail.
   (C)   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used, for any purpose, nor in any manner, which is not in
conformity with this chapter.
§ 155.005 SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the intention that several provisions of
this chapter are separable in accordance with the following:
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provisions
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provisions of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment; and/or
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property building,
or structure, such judgment shall not affect other property, buildings or
structures.
   (B)   Every section, provision or part of this chapter or any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter is declared separable from every other section,
provision or part thereof to the extent that if any section, provision or part
of this chapter or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any other
section, provision or part thereof.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.006 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 15% of a lot may be covered by buildings and not more than 25%
of lot may be covered by impervious surfaces, including all structures, decks
and pavement areas, except as provided in §§
155.053 ,
155.054  and
155.055  of this chapter.
§ 155.007 LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder prior to 8-1-1978
may be allowed as residential building sites; provided:
      (1)   They have frontage on an existing public right-of-way or have
frontage on an existing easement or other private roadway existing prior to 1-
1-1977; and
      (2)   They have at least 20,000 square feet of area.
         (a)   Lots smaller than 20,000 square feet may be used as dwelling
sites if the owner can prove that adequate sanitary facilities can be provided.
Said sanitary facilities must be located on the same lot of record as the
dwelling, or on adjacent land which is legally available to the owner.
Extraordinary alteration of the lot through land filling or excavation shall
not constitute proof of an adequate site for sanitary facilities.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall decide if lots smaller than 20,000
square feet may be used for dwelling sites in accord with §
155.026(B) of this chapter. The expansion of the floor area of substandard
residential uses on lots smaller than 20,000 square feet shall also be reviewed
by the Board of Adjustment. Such expansion may be denied or limited by the
Board when there is limited space for sewage treatment and/or no alternative
sewage treatment site on the lot. The Board of Adjustment may note in its
review that a substandard residential use should be used for seasonal use only,
if adequate sanitary facilities for year-round occupancy cannot be provided.
Holding tanks need not be considered as adequate sanitary facilities for year-
round use. In no case shall the expansion of a substandard residential use
exceed 50% of the assessed value of the original structure if a holding tank is
the only available method for sewage treatment.
         (c)   In determining if adequate sanitary facilities can be provided,
the Board of Adjustment shall require that all standards in §
155.090 of this chapter, sewage treatment and disposal standards be shown to be
met. Due to the small lot size, and in areas where community water and sewer
systems are not planned to be installed, the Board of Adjustment may require
that proposals include a second location for a sewage treatment system.
Proposals which can provide for only one site, and require a mound system or
other alternative sewage treatment system shall not be considered as adequate
sanitary facilities on lots which are predominantly low (less than six feet) in
elevation above the ordinary high water mark or water table. The total square
footage of any proposed residence shall be limited by the Board on any lot
where there is no alternative sewage treatment site available.
   (B)   In a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same ownership, if
an individual lot has less than 20,000 square feet of area, no lot nor lots may
be considered as a separate parcel of land for the purposes of sale or
development unless each separated parcel and the remainder contains at least
20,000 square feet of lot area.
   (C)   All other requirements of this chapter are met, including, but not
limited to, setback standards and sewage treatment standards.
§ 155.008 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Non-conforming building and uses.
      (1)   A non-conforming use existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter may be continued, except as provided herein.
      (2)   (a)   A non-conforming building or land existing at the effective
date of this chapter shall be discontinued within a reasonable period of
amortization of a building; uses of buildings and land which becomes non-
conforming by reason of a change in this chapter shall also be discontinued
within a reasonable period of amortization of the building. A reasonable period
of amortization shall be construed to begin after the date of adoption of this
chapter and shall be considered to be 40 years for buildings of ordinary wood
construction; 50 years for buildings of wood and masonry construction; 60 years
for buildings of fireproof construction; and 20 years for mobile homes.
         (b)   These amortization periods were established and became effective
on 1-1-1973 by ordinance, and have not been altered by changes or amendments in
county ordinances since that date, except for the creation of new non-
conforming uses. Special standards for specific uses may be found in other
divisions of this section. Petitions for reviews of individual cases in regard
to non-conforming uses may be made to the Board of Adjustment when the
amortization period expires. The Board of Adjustment shall consider the
appearance, safety and general condition of structures when determining if a
non-conforming structure may remain beyond its amortization period.
      (3)   In the event that a non-conforming use is discontinued or its
normal operation stopped for a period of six months, the use shall thereafter
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Expansion and alteration.
      (1)   A non-conforming use existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter may be continued provided that the exterior dimensions of such use
shall not be extended or expanded. If no structural alterations are made, a
non-conforming use of the building may be changed to another non-conforming use
of the same or more restricted classification. The foregoing provisions shall
also apply to non-conforming uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a
non-conforming use of a building has been changed to a more restricted use or
to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restricted use.
      (2)   A feedlot that is non-conforming because of excessive animal unit
numbers, existing prior to 1981 on a residential parcel or June 1995 on A/R or
AG parcels, may be continued; provided that, the number of animal units does
not increase. Whenever a non-conforming feedlot has reduced its animal unit
numbers over a period of more than one year to a lesser number of animal units,
such animal unit numbers shall not thereafter be increased.
      (3)   In the Floodplain Overlay District, no alterations shall be allowed
which would result in increasing the flood damage potential of that structure
and the total alterations allowed over the life of the structure shall not
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure.
   (C)   Restoration. No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion,
act of God or the public enemy to the extent of more than 50% of its value
shall be restored, except in the conformity with the regulations of this
chapter.
   (D)   Normal maintenance.
      (1)   Maintenance of a building or other structure containing or used by
a non-conforming use will be permitted when it includes necessary, non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify
the non-conforming building or use.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in
the safe or more liveable conditions when said structure is declared unsafe by
the County Building Inspector.
   (E)   Non-conforming junk yards. No junk yard may continue as a non-
conforming use for more than five years after the effective date of this
chapter, except that a junk yard may continue as a non-conforming use in a
Business or Industrial District if, within that period, it is completely
enclosed within a building, fence, screen planting or other device of such
height and density as to screen completely the operations of the junk yard.
Plans of such a building or device shall be approved by the County Planning
Commission before it is erected.
   (F)   Non-conforming individual mobile home.
      (1)   (a)   Legally existing mobile homes made non-conforming by this or
prior county ordinances may remain for an amortization period which will expire
on 8-1-1998. (A 20-year amortization period for mobile homes on lots less than
ten acres in size was established on 1-1-1973. A similar period was established
for parcels ten or more acres in size on 8-1-1978.)
         (b)   Non-conforming mobile homes which still exist on land subject to
this chapter on 8-1-1998 must be removed from the property upon the occurrence
of the first sale, devise, gift or other transfer of title to the mobile home
or the real estate upon which the mobile home is located, when such transfer
occurs after 8-1-1998. A surviving joint tenant or the surviving spouse of an
owner of such a mobile home or real estate shall be exempt from this provision
until subsequent transfer.
      (2)   When a non-conforming mobile home is replaced with a new home, the
new structure must meet current county standards for a single-family dwelling.
      (3)   If a non-conforming mobile home is destroyed by an unintentional or
uncontrollable hazard, such as fire, wind or storm, it may be replaced by
another mobile home provided the owner applies for a temporary use permit
pursuant to §
155.026(D) of this chapter.
      (4)   Manufactured homes which were non-conforming under previous county
ordinances, but which legally exist on a lot of record and meet the standards
in §
155.102 of this chapter, may remain as a permitted single-family dwelling.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to prevent the
county from ordering the immediate removal of mobile homes which exists without
legal permits, nor from enforcing the terms of specific, existing permits or
orders in regard to individual mobile homes.
   (G)   Non-conforming sewage disposal systems.
      (1)   Any individual sewage disposal system or pertinent part thereof,
irrespective of the date of original installation, which is not located,
constructed or installed in accord with the standards within §
155.090 of this chapter shall be so relocated, reconstructed or reinstalled so
as to be in conformance. This requirement was first adopted on 1-1-1973, and a
period of five years from that date allowed to bring such systems into
compliance.
      (2)   The county may order the owner of any existing non-conforming
sewage disposal system to immediately bring the system into compliance with
current standards.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 24-4, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 155.009 ZONING COORDINATION.
   (A)   Any zoning district change on land adjacent to or across a public
right-of-way from an adjoining community shall be referred to the Planning
Commission, and the adjacent community for review and comment prior to action
by the governing body granting or denying the zoning district classification
change.
   (B)   A period of at least two weeks shall be provided for receipt of
comments; such comments shall be considered as advisory only.
§ 155.010 ZONING AND THE POLICIES PLAN.
   Any change in zoning granted by the governing body shall automatically amend
the Policies Plan in accordance with said zoning change.
§ 155.011 SUBSTANDARD USES.
   (A)   Substandard uses and structures shall not be subject to an
amortization period, but shall be allowed to continue, except as specified in §
155.008(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Minor alterations to substandard uses or structures will require a
variance only if the action would result in the use being less in conformance
with applicable standards.
   (C)   Substandard conditional or interim uses may be required to apply for a
new or amended conditional or interim use permit for expansion or alteration,
or to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.012 SUPREMACY.
   (A)   When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter on the use
of land or buildings or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive or
less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any other
county ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive conditions shall prevail.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements, restrictions,
covenants, relating to the use of land or imposed on lands within the county by
private declaration or agreement, but where the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than any such easement, restriction or covenant, or the
provision of any private agreement, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
§ 155.013 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in full force and effect from and after 8-1-1978 or the
date of its passage and publication according to law, whichever occurs first.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.025 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. The office of the Zoning Administrator is hereby
established for which the Board of County Commissioners may appoint such
employee or employees of the county as it may deem proper. The term of office
of the Zoning Administrator shall be indefinite and shall terminate at the
pleasure of the County Administrator.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include the
following:
      (1)    To interpret, administer and enforce the provisions of this zoning
ordinance and maintain records of such interpretations;
      (2)   Issue use permits and maintain records thereof;
      (3)   Receive and forward to the County Planning Commission all
applications for conditional or interim use permits and interim use permits;
      (4)   Receive and forward all applications for and petitions for matters
to come before the Board of Adjustment;
      (5)   Receive and forward to the Board of County Commissioners and the
County Planning Commission all applications for amendments to this chapter and
the county zoning map;
      (6)   Appoints agents to inspect all construction and development to
ensure that the standards of this chapter are being complied with;
      (7)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to
matters arising out of this chapter;
      (8)   Maintain the county zoning map as required in §
155.046 of this chapter; and
      (9)   Notify the Commissioner of Natural Resources or the Commissioner’s
designated representative of public hearings to consider variances, amendments,
interim or conditional uses under local shoreland management controls. These
notices must be postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices of
hearings to consider proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the
subdivision/plat. A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and
final decisions granting variances, interim or conditional uses under local
shoreland management controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the
Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked within ten days of
final action.
      (10)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce this
chapter through the proper legal channels.
      (11)   To establish and administer rules and regulations relating to the
administration of this zoning ordinance, including application forms.
      (12)   It shall be the duty of the County Attorney and the Sheriff of
Wright County when called upon by the Zoning Administrator, to perform such
duties as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (13)   The Zoning Administrator shall not accept, process, or issue any
permit or other application for any property on which there is a violation of
any Wright County Ordinance, unless the Zoning Administrator determines that
the permit or application is necessary to resolve the violation.
      (14)   To take such other actions as reasonable and necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Appeals of the Zoning Administrator. All findings and decisions of the
Zoning Administrator, Building Official, Environmental Health Supervisor,
Feedlot Administrator or other official involved in the administration or the
enforcement of this zoning ordinance shall be final subject to appeal to the
Board of Adjustment, except as otherwise provided by this zoning ordinance.
Appeals may be initiated by any affected person by filing the appeal with the
Zoning Administrator on a form approved by the Zoning Administrator and by
paying the required fee. All appeals shall be filed within 15 calendar days of
the date of the decision or adoption of this chapter. All appeals must state
the basis for the appeal at the time of filing the appeal. The Zoning
Administrator is prohibited from accepting or filing an application of an
untimely appeal. Timely filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings in the
action appealed, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, with service of a copy to the applicant, that a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed.
(Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 23-4, passed
12-19-2023)
§ 155.026 APPEALS AND THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The Board of
Adjustment shall be appointed by the County Board of Commissioners and shall
consist of five members, one of whom must be a member of the Planning
Commission. Effective 5-12-1987, the County Board shall appoint members to the
Board of Adjustment for terms as follows:
         (a)   Two members with terms ending 12-31-1987;
         (b)   Two members with terms ending 12-31-1988; and
         (c)   One member term ending 12-31-1989.
      (2)   Thereafter, members of the Board shall be appointed for three-year
terms beginning January 1. Members may be removed from office by the County
Board for good cause shown. Every attempt shall be made to obtain a cross
section of the county in appointing members to the Board, and at least three
members of the Board of Adjustment must reside or own property in an
unincorporated area of the county.
      (3)   No elected officer of the county, nor any employee of the county,
shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment. The members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be compensated as determined by the County Board and shall be
paid their necessary expenses in the conduct of the business of the Board.
      (4)   Members shall not vote on issues on which they have a conflict of
interest. Any question of whether a particular issue involves a conflict of
interest sufficient to disqualify a regular Board member from voting thereon
shall be decided by majority vote of regular Board members, except the member
who is challenged.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among its members and it shall appoint a Secretary who need
not be a member of the Board. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of its
business. Such rules may include provisions for the giving of oaths to witness
and the filing of written briefs by the parties. The Board shall provide a
public record of its proceedings which shall include the minutes of its
meetings, its findings and the action taken on each matter heard by it,
including the final order.
      (6)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the Chair and at such other times as the Board in its rules of procedure may
specify.
   (B)   General duties and responsibilities; variances and administrative
appeals.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall act upon all requests for variances
and upon all questions as they may arise in the administration of this chapter,
including the interpretation of zoning maps, and it shall hear and decide
appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by any administrative official charged with enforcing this chapter. Such appeal
may be taken by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved, or by any officer,
department, board or bureau of a town, municipality, county or state. The Board
of Adjustment shall be without jurisdiction to hear any untimely appeals.
      (2)   Hearings by the Board of Adjustment shall be held within such time
and upon such notice to interested parties as is provided in its adopted rules
of procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall establish criteria necessary in its
rules of procedure for filing an application for a variance or an appeal.
Written notice of hearings held by the Board of Adjustment shall be sent to
affected property owners as provided by law. The Board of Adjustment shall make
its decision within 15 days of the hearing, but may continue the hearing to
such length of time as it deems necessary to properly consider each case.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and,
to that end, shall have all powers of the officer to whom the appeal was taken
and direct the issuance of a permit. The reasons for the Board’s decision shall
be stated in writing.
   (C)   Variance authority.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the exclusive power to order
issuance of variances from the terms of any official control including
restrictions placed on non-conformities. Variances shall only be permitted when
they are in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the official
control, and when the variances are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance establishes the
criteria under division (D) below are met and there are practical difficulties
in complying with the official control.
      (2)   Practical difficulties, as used in connection with the granting of
a variance, means that the property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
      (3)   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as
defined by M.S. § 216C.06, subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time,
when in harmony with the official controls.
      (4)   No variance may be granted that would allow any use that is not
allowed in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions in the granting of
variances. A condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (D)   Findings.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment must review variance petitions and consider
the following factors prior to finding that a practical difficulty has been
presented. The applicant must provide a statement of evidence addressing the
following elements to the extent they are relevant to the applicant’s
situation.
         (a)   The granting of the variance will be in harmony with the County
Land Use Plan.
         (b)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by an official control.
         (c)   The plight of the owner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the owner.
         (d)   The proposal does not alter the essential character of the
locality.
         (e)   The practical difficulty cannot be alleviated by a method other
than a variance; and
         (f)   The granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
environmental quality of the area.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may grant a variance if it finds that all
of the above factors have been established. The Board of Adjustment must not
approve a variance request unless the applicant proves all of the above factors
and established that there are practical difficulties in complying with
official controls. The burden of proof of these matters rests completely on the
applicant.
      (3)   In addition to applying the factors above, in all situations where
an applicant has applied for any variance “after-the-fact”, the Board may
factor into its decision any elements of “bad faith”.
   (E)   Other duties of the Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Lots of record that do not meet the standards of §
155.007 of this chapter. The Board of Adjustment must decide if lots of record
that do not meet the standards of §
155.007 of this chapter may be used as dwelling sites. The Board shall consider
the following in making that determination:
         (a)   Extraordinary alteration of the lot through filling or
excavation shall not constitute proof of an adequate site for sanitary
facilities;
         (b)   When there is limited space for sewage treatment or no
alternative sewage treatment site, the Board may limit the square footage of
any proposed dwelling or expansion and may designate the site for seasonal use
only; and
         (c)   The existing or proposed sewage treatment system must conform
with §
155.090 of this chapter.
      (2)   Lot line adjustments. The Board of Adjustment may review lots of
record in the office of the County Recorder which do not meet standards
established by this chapter for size, width, elevation, depth or other
provisions. The Board may require that such parcels be joined, combined,
modified in size, shape or other ways to more nearly achieve the standards of
this chapter if the owner wishes to use such parcels as building sites. The
Board may initiate such proceedings or may act upon request of the property
owner. If the Board determines that the lot is not acceptable as a building
site, the Zoning Administrator shall provide a copy of the Board’s findings to
the County Assessor.
      (3)   Allowances for lots not acceptable as building sites.
         (a)   When practical means of a lot adjustment cannot be made under
division (E)(1) above, and in other appropriate circumstances, the Board of
Adjustment may declare a lot not acceptable as a building site. When the Board
does so, no well, sewage treatment system, nor holding tank may be installed on
the lot.
         (b)   Lots declared not acceptable as building sites may be allowed,
as reasonably determined by the Board of Adjustment:
            1.   One garage or other accessory building; provided, no living
quarters, nor plumbing, are installed and all other chapter standards are met;
and
            2.   One travel trailer, excluding a park trailer; if it complies
with all the conditions of §
155.091 of this chapter.
      (4)   Floodplain interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of Floodplain District boundaries, as for example where there
appears to be a conflict between the mapped boundary and actual field
conditions, the Board must make the necessary interpretation based on
elevations of the regional (100-year) flood profile and other available
technical data.
      (5)   Temporary use permits.
         (a)   In instances of particular hardship, the Board of Adjustment may
issue a temporary use permit. Such permits must be renewed at a frequency
determined by the Board of Adjustment and administered by the Zoning
Administrator. Temporary use permits are valid for six months or such other
time period as the Board of Adjustment may deem appropriate. Written agreement
from the applicant concerning the understanding between the applicant and the
Board of Adjustment is to be filed with the Zoning Administrator before a
temporary use permit is issued.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may grant a temporary use permit for no
more than 45 days in an emergency when the requirement to wait for the Board of
Adjustment to meet will cause undue hardship. This permit will only be valid if
the applicant petitions for a temporary use permit from the Board of
Adjustment, and will expire when the Board acts on the petition.
   (F)   Procedure.
      (1)   The person applying for a hearing before the Board of Adjustment
shall fill out and submit to the Zoning Administrator a hearing application
form and fee as determined by the County Board. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to provide all information necessary for the Board of
Adjustment to reach a decision. All applications for variances must be
accompanied by the following, unless the Zoning Administrator determines it is
not needed for a proper review:
         (a)   A certificate of survey no more than five years old which shows
all existing and proposed structures, well, septic systems and other pertinent
data;
         (b)   A topographic grading plan showing all grading, surface water
flow and erosion control; and
         (c)   A certificate of compliance for the septic system. If the system
is non-compliant, needs to be enlarged, or a new system is proposed, a full
design for the system may be needed.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application to the Board
of Adjustment for review. Notice shall be provided as required by M.S. §
394.26, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the
proposal. The petitioner or his or her representative shall appear before the
Board in order to answer questions concerning the proposal.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment may approve, approve with modifications or
conditions or deny an application based on the information available and
findings of the Board. All decisions by the Board of Adjustment shall be final;
except that, any aggrieved person or persons, or any department, board or
commission of the jurisdiction or of the state shall have the right to appeal
within 30 days, after receipt of notice of the decision, to the District Court
in the county in which the land is located on questions of law and fact.
      (5)   A certified copy of any order issued by the Board of Adjustment
acting upon an appeal from an order, requirement or decision or determination
by an administrative official, or a request for a variance, shall be filed with
the County Recorder. The order issued by the Board of Adjustment shall include
the legal description of the property involved. The Zoning Administrator shall
be responsible for the document recording requirements of this section.
      (6)   Any violation of a condition or ruling made by the Board of
Adjustment shall be a violation of this chapter. Failure to comply with any
ruling of the Board of Adjustment shall void any variance or special permit
granted by the Board of Adjustment.
      (7)   A variance shall be valid for a period of three years and, if not
acted upon by the applicant or his or her assigns within that time, the
variance shall be void.
(Ord. 23-4, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.027 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)    The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members and every
attempt shall be made to obtain a cross-section of the county in appointing
members to the Commission. All conditional use permit applications shall be
referred to and decided by the Planning Commission. Terms of office shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One member from the Board of County Commissioners serving a one-
year term; and
      (2)   Six county representatives (residents) shall serve a three-year
term (a three-year staggered term; two members each year).
   (B)   The removal of any member for non-performance of duty or misconduct in
office shall be by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. Any member
that misses three consecutive Planning Commission meeting or who fails to
attend 50% of the Planning Commission meetings in one calendar year may be
removed from office by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as a new member; except
that, the term of office shall be for the remainder of the term of the vacated
commission member.
(Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-4, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.028 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Criteria for granting zoning amendments.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners may adopt amendments to this
chapter and zoning maps in relation both to land uses within a particular
district or to the location of the district lines.
      (2)   Such amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately, but shall
only be used as a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of the
community as reflected in the Policies Plan or changes in conditions in the
county.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   An amendment to the text of this chapter or zoning map may be
initiated by the County Board of Commissioners, the Planning Commission, the
Zoning Administrator, or by application of a property owner. Any amendment not
initiated by the Planning Commission shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for review and may not be acted upon by the County Board until it
has received the Planning Commission’s recommendation. Notwithstanding the
aforementioned, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to refer any application
filed under this section from the Planning Commission prior to it receiving a
recommendation and refer the application directly to the County Board in the
even the application has the potential to violate the time limits established
under M.S. § 15.99. Individuals wishing to initiate an amendment application
form shall submit it to the Zoning Administrator and pay the required fee.
      (2)   Written notice of public hearings on the proposed amendment shall
be sent to the governing bodies of towns and municipalities located within two
miles of the property to be rezoned within the county. In unincorporated areas,
the property owners of record within one-half mile of the property zoning
amendment. In incorporated areas, the property owners within 500 feet of the
property in question shall be notified in writing of the proposed zoning
amendment.
      (3)   A public hearing on the rezoning application shall be held by the
Planning Commission. Notice of said hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper designated by the County Board. The recommendation of the Planning
Commission will be referred to the County Board following the hearing
recommending approval, neutral response, disapproval or modified approval of
the proposed amendment.
      (4)   The County Board will act on the application after referral by the
Planning Commission. The County Board shall review the application based on the
record compiled by the Planning Commission and the Zoning Administrator. The
County Board may, in exceptional and rare circumstances on matters of
significant public interest, order a second public hearing to be conducted
during a board meeting or as part of a committee of the Board. The person
making the application shall be notified of the action taken. The Zoning
Administrator shall maintain records of amendments to the text and zoning map
of this chapter.
      (5)   No application of a property owner for an amendment to the text of
this chapter or the zoning map shall be considered by the Planning Commission
within one-year period following denial of such request; except, the Planning
Commission may permit a new application, if in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, new evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
(Ord. 23-4, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.029 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Criteria for granting conditional use permits. In granting a
conditional use permit, the County Planning Commission shall consider the
effect of the proposed use upon the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of occupants of surrounding lands. Among other things, the County Planning
Commission shall make the following findings where applicable.
      (1)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the immediate
vicinity.
      (2)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses
predominant in the area.
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use.
      (5)   The use is not in conflict with the Policies Plan of the county.
      (6)   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these
will constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in
such a manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
   (B)   Additional conditions.
      (1)   In permitting a new conditional use or the alteration of an
existing conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to
these standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter,
additional conditions which the Planning Commission considers necessary to
protect the best interest of the surrounding area or the community as a whole.
These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
         (b)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings;
         (c)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
         (d)   Increasing the street width;
         (e)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
         (f)   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
         (g)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property; and
         (h)   Designating sites for open space.
      (2)   Any change involving structural alterations, enlargements,
intensification of use or similar change not specifically permitted by the
conditional use permit issued shall require an amended conditional use permit
and all procedures shall apply as if a new permit were being issued. The County
Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all conditional use permits
issued including information on the use, location and conditions imposed by the
Planning Commission; time limits, review dates and such other information as
may be appropriate.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The person applying for a conditional use permit shall fill out and
submit to the Zoning Administrator a conditional use application form.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application to the
Planning Commission for review.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposal. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper designated by the County Board at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall also be submitted to the governing bodies
of all towns and municipalities within two miles of the property under
consideration located within the county. In unincorporated areas of the county,
property owners of record within one-quarter mile of the affected property or
the ten properties nearest to the affected property, whichever is the greatest
number of property owners shall be notified in writing of the public hearing on
the request for conditional use permit.
      (4)   The petitioner or his or her representative shall appear before the
Planning Commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
conditional use.
      (5)   An amended conditional use permit application shall be administered
in a matter similar to that required for a new special use permit. Amended
special use permit shall include requests for changes in conditions.
      (6)   No application for a conditional use permit shall be resubmitted
for a period of six months from the date of said order of denial. Conditional
use permits shall be valid for six months unless otherwise specified. All
conditions in a conditional use permit shall be commenced within six months and
shall be complied with within one year unless otherwise specified.
      (7)   If a time limit or periodic review is included as a condition by
which a conditional use permit is granted, the conditional use permit may be
reviewed at a public hearing with notice of said hearing published at least ten
days prior to the review.
      (8)   In the event that the applicant violates any of the conditions set
forth in this permit, the County Planning Commission shall have the authority
to revoke the conditional use permit.
      (9)    A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be filed with
the County Recorder. The conditional use permit shall include the legal
description of the property involved. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for the document recording requirements of this section.
   (D)   Discontinuance of conditional use permits. Where a conditional use has
been established and is discontinued for any reason for a period of one year or
longer, or where a conditional use has been changed to a permitted use or to
any other conditional use, the conditional use permit shall become null and
void.
(Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022)
§ 155.030 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Building permits. For the purpose of enforcing this chapter, a land
use and building permit shall be required of all persons intending to erect,
alter, wreck or move any building or structure. Buildings 200 square feet and
less in total ground coverage shall not require a permit; however, they shall
meet all required setback distances. All additions to residences shall require
a permit. Buildings and permits shall conform with all applicable codes and
ordinances adopted by the county. Permits shall not be required for the
location of mobile homes or manufactured homes in mobile home parks which the
county recognizes as legally established mobile home parks.
      (1)   Persons requesting a building permit shall fill out a building
permit form available from the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Completed building permit forms and a fee as may be established by
resolution of the County Board of Commissioners shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator. If the proposed development conforms in all respects to
this chapter a building permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator
within a period of 75 days.
      (3)   If the proposed development involves a zoning amendment, variance,
interim or conditional use permit, the application, together with a building
permit, shall be submitted either to the Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment or Appeals for review and appropriate action according to the
procedures set forth in §§
155.026,
155.027 and
155.028 of this chapter.
      (4)   For all lots of ten acres or less in size, a certificate of survey
shall accompany each residential building permit application along with
evidence that corner irons are established and visible. The certificate of
survey shall include the location and size of the proposed residence sewer
system, well, existing buildings and significant environmental features.
   (B)   Signs and billboard permits. A permit shall be required in all cases
where a sign or billboard is erected, altered or relocated within the area of
jurisdiction of this chapter. Specific requirements, exceptions and application
procedures are set forth in §
155.097 of this chapter.
   (C)   Sewage and water systems; licenses and permits.
      (1)   A license shall be required of any person, firm or corporation
engaging in the business of installing and constructing sewage disposal
systems. Specific requirements and application procedures are set forth in §§
155.075 to
155.108 of this chapter.
      (2)   A permit shall be required to install, alter, repair or extend any
individual sewage disposal system. Specific requirements, exceptions and
application procedures are set forth in §§
155.075 to
155.108 of this chapter.
      (3)   A license shall be required of any person, firm or corporation
engaging in the business of servicing and cleaning septic tanks. Specific
requirements and application procedures are set forth in §§
155.075 to
155.108 of this chapter.
   (D)   Land alteration permits.
      (1)   In all cases where grading and/or filling of any land within the
county would result in substantial alteration of existing ground contour, a
permit shall be required. Specific requirements, exceptions and application
procedures are set forth in §§
155.075 to
155.108 of this chapter.
      (2)   Substantial alteration shall be defined as movement of earth or
materials in excess of 50 cubic yards in the Shoreland Districts and in excess
of 500 cubic yards in all other districts.
   (E)   Excavation permits. The use of land for the removal of topsoil, sand
or gravel, or any other material is permitted only by the issuance of an
excavation permit. Specific requirements, exceptions and application procedures
are set forth in §§
155.075 to
155.108 of this chapter.
   (F)   Mobile home park permits. Before any mobile home park or travel
trailer park shall be constructed, altered or extended in any manner, a permit
shall be required. Specific requirements and application procedures are set
forth in §§
155.075 to
155.108 of this chapter.
   (G)   Essential service utility permits. Essential services as treated
herein shall refer to trunk transmission, sewer and water system, collection or
distribution lines, except electrical distribution lines, and excepting lateral
or house lines. Specific requirements and procedures are set forth in §
155.098 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 155.031 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Authority. No person or entity shall allow the existence of the
following uses on lands that are partially or entirely owned, leased, or
occupied by them without an Interim Use Permit (IUP), as listed in the Wright
County Code of Ordinances, Title XV, issued by the Wright County Planning
Commission. Interim uses must be consistent with the terms of the interim use
permit and any applicable local, state, or federal law, rule or other statutory
provision.
   (B)   Criteria for granting interim use permits. In granting an interim use
permit, the Planning Commission shall consider the effect of the proposed use
upon the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of occupants of
surrounding lands. Among other things, the Planning Commission shall make the
following findings where applicable.
      (1)   The use is in conformance with the Wright County Land Use Plan and
Wright County Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   The interim use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted.
      (3)   The establishment of the interim use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses
predominant in the area.
      (4)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
      (5)   Permission of the use will not impose additional costs on the
public if it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future.
   (C)   Additional conditions.
      (1)   In permitting a new interim use or alteration of an existing
interim use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to these standards
and requirements expressly specified by this chapter, additional conditions
which the Planning Commission considers necessary to protect the best interest
of the surrounding area and community as a whole. These conditions may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)    Increasing the required lot size or yard dimensions.
         (b)   Limiting the height, size, or location of any buildings or uses.
         (c)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points.
         (d)   Limiting the number, size, location, lighting or signs.
         (e)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property.
      (2)   Any change involving structural alterations, enlargements,
intensification of use, expansion, or similar change not specifically permitted
by the interim use permit issued shall require a new interim use permit. The
Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all interim use permits issued,
including information on use, location, conditions imposed by the Planning
Commission, time limits, review dates, and other such information as may be
appropriate. Any interim use permit granted under this provision shall
terminate any previously approved interim use permit.
      (3)   Any interim use permit may be terminated by a change in zoning
regulations.
   (D)   Procedure. The procedures for applying for an interim use permit shall
be the same as those listed in §
155.029(C) of this chapter and the required notification distances shall be the
same as those listed in M.S. § 394.26, as amended.
   (E)   Transferability.
      (1)   Any interim use permit (IUP) issued under this chapter is granted
solely to the applicant and the business entity named in the application, and
for the premises named in the IUP application. No IUP of any sort granted
pursuant to this chapter is transferable to any other person or premises. If a
change of ownership, control, or location of any licensed premises occurs,
whether pursuant to a move, sale, transfer, assignment, or otherwise; the owner
or proposed new owner must complete a new application subject to approval
pursuant to this chapter. A change of ownership or control includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   The sale of all or substantially all of the company assets;
         (b)   Sale or acquisition of 40% or more of the controlling interest
(voting) stock if the company stock is publicly traded;
         (c)   Sale of 51% of the voting stock if a non-publicly traded stock
or closely held corporation;
         (d)   Execution of a management agreement; or
         (e)   The change of any officer or majority stockholder if the company
is a closely-held corporation.
   (F)   All previously granted or allowed conditional use permits that include
a condition or conditions related to an expiration date, time limit, or other
triggering event, shall be considered an interim use permit.
   (G)   Where an interim use has been established and is discontinued for any
reason for a period of one year or longer, or where an interim use has been
changed to a permitted use or to any other interim use, the interim use permit
has become null and void.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 155.045 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The zoning districts shall apply as designated on the zoning map and
defined within this chapter and applicable state or federal regulations. Two
types of zoning districts are utilized. All lands under jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be designated as lying within one, and only one, primary zoning
district. In addition, one or more overlay districts may apply.
Primary Districts Symbol  Code Section
Primary Districts                Symbol  Code Section
Agricultural/Residential         (A/R)  §
                                        155.047
Commercial Recreation Shorelands (S-3)  §
                                        155.057(H)
General Agriculture              (AG)   §
                                        155.048
General Business                 (B-2)  §
                                        155.054
General Industry                 (I-1)  §
                                        155.055
Highway Business                 (B-1)  §
                                        155.053
Multi-Family Urban               (R-3)  §
                                        155.052
Suburban Residential             (R-2)  §
                                        155.050
Suburban Residential (a)         (R-2a) §
                                        155.051
Urban/Rural Transition           (R-1)  §
                                        155.049
Wild and Scenic River            (W)    §
                                        155.058
 
 
Overlay Districts                 Symbol Code Section
Adult Uses Overlay District       (AU)   §
                                         155.135
Floodplain                        (FP)   §
                                         155.056
Planned Unit Development          (PUD)* §
                                         155.059
Residential Recreation Shorelands (S-2)  §
                                         155.057(G)
Special Protection Shorelands     (S-1)  §
                                         155.057(F)
 
   (B)   The planned unit development zone is a floating district. The
standards of this district may be applied to any residential, commercial or
industrial district at the request of the landowner and the discretion of
county. In such districts, where PD standards differ from the original district
standards, the PD standards apply.
§ 155.046 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter is set forth on the zoning map which is hereby incorporated as part of
this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
maintain and update this map and the amendments to such map shall be recorded
on such map within 30 days after official adoption of zoning amendments.
   (B)   Whether or not they are so designated on the zoning map, residential
plats which were approved prior to 8-2-1978 shall be zoned in accord with the
following schedule. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible to record the
following changes on the zoning maps in a timely manner. Zoning for residential
plats approved prior to 8-2-1978:
 
Average Lot Size       Zoning District
Less than 2 acres      R-1
Between 2 and 4 acres  R-2
Between 4 and 10 acres R-2(a)
Over 10 acres          No change
 
   (C)   In addition, within shoreland areas, existing metes and bounds
subdivisions comprised of five or more adjacent lots less than one acre in size
shall be zoned R-1.
   (D)   The purpose of these changes is to bring existing residential areas,
many of which are zoned AG, General Agriculture, into a more proper and
reasonable zoning district. Many of the performance standards in the AG
District cannot be reasonably applied in residential areas with small lots, and
have caused hardships for the property owners affected. This change is intended
to place the properties concerned into that zoning district which is
specifically suited to the lot sizes in each area.
§ 155.047 AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL (A/R).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is created to serve as a buffer between
commercial agricultural areas and more intensely developed residential areas,
to provide for very low density residential development in areas especially
unsuited to long term agricultural uses and to allow limited residential
development which will not be provided with an urban level of services.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses subject to county feedlot regulations;
      (2)   One single-family dwelling per lot of record;
      (3)   Forestry and nurseries (not to include retail);
      (4)   Family-operated seasonal produce stands;
      (5)   Public recreation and historic sites;
      (6)   Horticultural uses; and
      (7)    Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Non-commercial uses, structures or buildings customarily incidental
to permitted uses;
      (2)   Livestock subject to county feedlot regulations and all other
standards in this chapter; and
      (3)   Non-commercial wind chargers.
   (D)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Township halls;
         (b)   Subdivisions, minimum lot size of ten acres;
         (c)   Rural planned unit development in accordance with §
155.059 of this chapter;
         (d)   Essential services in accordance with §
155.098 of this chapter; and
         (e)   Churches and cemeteries;
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Kennels;
         (b)   Riding stables;
         (c)   Home occupations;
         (d)   Home extended business in accordance with §
155.103 of this chapter;
         (e)   Bed and breakfast units in single-family dwellings;
         (f)   Rural planned unit development in accordance with §
155.059 of this chapter;
         (g)   Retreat center in accordance with §
155.104 of this chapter;
         (h)   Large animal veterinary clinics serving agricultural uses and
livestock;
         (i)   Commercial outdoor recreation;
         (j)   Commercial agricultural tourism; and
         (k)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All other uses not listed as permitted, accessory,
conditional, or interim shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Performance standards. Parcels in the Agricultural/Residential
District shall be limited to one-half animal unit per acre and less than ten
animal units total, except as allowed under §
155.008(B) of this chapter.
      (1)   Height regulations.
         (a)   The maximum height of all buildings shall not exceed two and
one-half stories or 35 feet.
         (b)   This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevator legs,
silos, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, church spires,
electric transmission lines or private radio or television towers.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
25                                  From right-of-way of cul-de-sac or approved
                                    “T”
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side
of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
of either road.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a minimum side yard of 30
feet for principal uses and 15 feet for accessory uses, unless the building is
housing livestock, then the setback is 100 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 50 feet for non-livestock buildings and a setback of 100 feet for
livestock buildings.
      (5)   Lot area regulations. The minimum lot size shall be ten acres,
except in PUD projects approved pursuant to §
155.059 of this chapter.
      (6)   Lot width and depth regulations. The minimum lot width shall be 300
feet and the minimum lot depth shall be 300 feet, except in PUD projects
approved pursuant to §
155.059 of this chapter.
      (7)   General regulations. Additional requirements for parking, signs,
sewage systems and other regulations set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-01, passed 5--2016; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-
2016; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1,
passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.048 GENERAL AGRICULTURE (AG).
   (A)   Purpose. General agricultural areas are established for the purpose of
preserving, promoting, maintaining and enhancing the use of land for commercial
agricultural purposes, to prevent scattered and leap-frog non-farm growth, to
protect and preserve natural resource areas and to stabilize increases in
public expenditures for such public services as roads and road maintenance,
police and fire protection and schools.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural land uses;
      (2)   Livestock feedlots less than 500 animal units subject to all county
and state regulations;
      (3)   One single-family dwelling per lot of record;
      (4)   Forestry and nurseries (not to include retail);
      (5)   Small-scale family operated seasonal produce stands;
      (6)   Public recreation;
      (7)   Historic sites and areas;
      (8)   Horticultural use;
      (9)   One division, per eligible quarter-quarter section or eligible lot
of record, as defined and regulated in division (G) below;
      (10)   Subdivisions and lot line alterations which are purely for
agricultural purposes, and do not increase the density or number of residential
building sites; provided that, all lots created contain at least 40 acres and
at least one complete quarter-quarter section, with public road frontage; and
      (11)   Solar energy systems.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Any incidental machinery, structure or building
customarily incidental to and necessary to the conduct of agricultural
operations or other permitted uses.
   (D)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Land reclamation and alteration;
         (b)   Livestock feedlots in excess of 500 animal units;
         (c)   Cemeteries;
         (d)   Churches, not to include a school, but may include a residence;
         (e)   Township halls;
         (f)   Sewage treatment plants; and
         (g)   Essential services in accordance with §
155.098 of this chapter;
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Kennels;
         (b)   Riding academies;
         (c)   Home occupations;
         (d)   Wholesale nursery, landscape and garden sales with seasonal
retail sales (not to include retail stores);
         (e)   Bed and breakfast units in single-family dwellings;
         (f)   One farm accessory mobile home or structure per farm operation
as a temporary use and subject to annual local township review;
         (g)   Commercial outdoor recreation;
         (h)   Mining and extraction in accordance with §
155.100 of this chapter;
         (i)   Non-commercial contractors yards;
         (j)   Private airstrip, subject to the following conditions:
            1.   All applicable regulations of the state and federal government
are properly satisfied;
            2.   There are no existing residential subdivisions, and no areas
designated for future residential growth within the land use plan of the County
Comprehensive Plan, within a radius of one and one-half miles of the proposed
airport; and
            3.   The airport shall be limited to use exclusively by the
property owner.
         (k)   Home extended business in accordance with §
155.103 of this chapter;
         (l)   Retreat center in accordance with §
155.104 of this chapter;
         (m)   Large animal veterinary clinics serving agricultural uses and
livestock;
         (n)   Commercial agricultural tourism;
         (o)   Solar energy systems, as regulated under §
155.108;
         (p)   Public schools in accordance with §
155.110 of this chapter;
         (q)   Seasonal storage; and
         (r)   Treatment and recovery facility.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All other uses not listed as permitted, accessory,
conditional, or interim shall be prohibited.
     (F)   Performance standards. Parcels in the Agricultural District which
are less than ten acres in size shall be subject to residential standards for
animals and lot standards that correspond with the zoning district which is
closest in lot size to the parcel. R-1 standards apply for less than 2.5 acres,
R-2 for lots 2.5 acres to 4.99 acres and R-2a for lots 5 to 9.99 acres. For all
parcels 10 acres and over in size, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Height regulations.
         (a)   The maximum height of all buildings shall not exceed two and
one-half stories or 35 feet.
         (b)   This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators,
silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and
smokestacks, church spires, electric transmission lines or radio or television
towers.
      (2)   Front yard regulation.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
25                                  From right-of-way of cul-de-sac or approved
                                    “T”
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side
of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
of either road.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. There shall be side yard width of not less
than 100 feet for buildings which will house livestock or any farm animals, and
30 feet for all other buildings.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. The rear yard setback depth shall be 50 feet
for all non-livestock buildings and no less than 100 feet for buildings that
will house livestock.
      (5)   General regulations. Additional requirements for parking, signs,
sewage systems and other regulations are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
   (G)   Requirements and standards for dwellings and permitted divisions.
      (1)   Limiting definitions.
         (a)   A quarter-quarter section is a parcel of land consisting of
approximately 40 acres and constituting the northeast, northwest, southwest or
southeast quarter of a quarter section of land in the United States Government
survey grid system of land survey. For the purposes of this section, a
government lot shall be considered a quarter-quarter section; provided, it
contains at least 30 acres of land above ordinary high water.
         (b)   An “eligible quarter-quarter section” shall be any quarter-
quarter section which meets all of the following:
            1.   It is complete and under common ownership;
            2.   It has frontage on a public road; and
            3.   It does not include any existing dwelling, commercial use or
other non-agricultural development.
         (c)   An “eligible lot of record” shall be a lot of record pursuant to
§
155.007 of this chapter which does not include any existing dwelling,
commercial use or other non-agricultural use or structure other than accessory
uses such as garages, storage sheds and the like and which is greater than ten
acres in size, but does not qualify as an eligible quarter-quarter section.
         (d)   An eligible lot of record or quarter-quarter section may be
permitted one single family dwelling on the parcel as a whole, or one division
as regulated in division (G)(4) below for the purpose of developing the
division. This right shall be referenced as the parcel’s “entitlement”.
      (2)   Existing residences. Legally existing single-family dwelling on a
quarter-quarter section or lot of record over ten acres in size may be
subdivided out onto a smaller parcel provided:
         (a)   The requirements for a division in division (G)(4) below are
met; and
         (b)   The remainder of the property has frontage on a public road.
      (3)   Determining entitlements on large parcels.
         (a)   On a farm or adjoining parcels, including all contiguous land
under common ownership, extra entitlements shall be available to the entire
parcel; provided, the following conditions are met:
            1.   The lands involved comprise more than 60 acres; and
            2.   If the parcel is the result of a division since 8-1-1978, then
the number of entitlements shall be determined by using the calculations in
division (G)(3)(b) below to all contiguous lands under common ownership as they
existed on 8-1-1978. These entitlements shall be allocated to the new parcels
by the Zoning Administrator based on acreage and the standards contained
herein, and appeals shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment; provided that,
no extra entitlements may be created.
         (b)   Entitlements for such parcels shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator as follows.
            1.   The total acreage of the parcel shall be calculated using the
best information available (the administrator or Board of Adjustment may
require the applicant to provide a survey of the property in case of dispute
over size).
            2.   Forty acres shall be subtracted from this total for each
existing house on the parcel, and for each entitlement division which has
occurred since 8-1-1978.
            3.   The result from divisions (G)(3)(b)1. and (G)(3)(b)2. above
shall be divided by 40 acres, and that result rounded to the nearest whole
number, which shall be the number of entitlements the entire parcel is
allocated. The use of these entitlements shall be subject to all regulations in
this chapter, including public road frontage requirements.
         (c)   The purpose of this provision is to provide relief to
potentially inequitable situations where large landholdings may be unduly
restricted due to the location of substantial acreage without road frontage.
The intent is not to increase residential density in the AG Zone above an
average of one house per 40 acres. If a large parcel is subdivided into
agricultural parcels, the entitlements shall be allocated at the time of sale
in accord with the standards contained within (provided that, no new
entitlements may be created), unless otherwise specified and appropriately
recorded through deed restrictions or action by the Board of Adjustment or
Planning Commission.
      (4)   Entitlement divisions. If a landowner chooses to use an entitlement
on an eligible lot of record or quarter-quarter section as a division, the
division and remainder of the eligible parcel shall be subject to the following
requirements.
         (a)   Deed restriction. The owner(s) (including, in all cases, the fee
owner) of the eligible parcel must sign and record a deed restriction to apply
to the remainder of the parcel. The restriction shall limit any further
residences, divisions or non-agricultural development of the remainder in
accord with the terms of this section, unless it is rezoned. The restriction
shall be on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Landlocked parcels prohibited. The remainder must have frontage
on a public road, or must be held in common ownership with contiguous lands
which have road frontage. No lot, nor parcel, may be created which does not
have road frontage in accord with the requirements herein.
         (c)   Lot standards.
            1.   The minimum lot size shall be one acre. Minimum road frontage,
lot width, depth, setback and other standards shall be the same as for the
residential zoning district closest to the lot’s size.
            2.   A private access strip with at least 33 feet and not exceeding
66 feet in width, which abuts a public road, may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator in lieu of the standard road frontage requirement, if the intent
is to provide access to a wooded site, or to otherwise preserve active
agricultural land or practices. The strip shall not be an easement, but owned
in fee with the division. Maintenance shall be the complete responsibility of
the property owner. In no case may such a strip be used to serve more than one
residence, unless accepted as a public road by the township. Refusal by the
Zoning Administrator to approve such a strip may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment.
            3.   Maximum lot size shall be:
               a.   Five acres for divisions from eligible lots of record;
               b.   Two and one-half acres for divisions from eligible quarter-
quarter sections if the building site is undeveloped cropland classified as
prime farmland or farmland of statewide importance as defined in the Land Use
Plan; and
               c.   Ten acres in all other instances.
         (d)   Lot status. The division shall remain zoned AG, General
Agriculture, but for the application of rules pertaining to livestock, outdoor
storage and other general standards, a division ten acres or less in size shall
be considered a residential lot.
      (5)   Entitlement transfers; standards. The purpose of allowing transfers
is to preserve productive farmlands, and to minimize the effects of the
residences on the environment, the surrounding neighborhood and nearby farm
operations. In no case shall the use of entitlement transfers be used to
increase the potential residential density in the Agricultural or Agricultural/
Residential Zones. If a new road is proposed or required to serve a group of
lots, a plat will be required and the road must be accepted by the township
board. These standards are in addition to those contained in §
155.029 of this chapter.
         (a)   Contiguous common ownership. Entitlements may be transferred to
contiguous property under common ownership provided the proposed divisions
comply with division (G)(4) above. Said transfers may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator if all other regulations are met. Transfers shall require the
issuance of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission if the
transfers result in the grouping of three or more homes at one location.
         (b)   Non-contiguous common ownership. Transfers from property under
common ownership, but not contiguous, require the issuance of a conditional use
permit. Such transfers must be within the boundaries of the township where the
entitlement currently exists and common ownership of the parcels must be
established and recorded for a minimum of three years before the transfer can
take place.
      (6)   Certain conditional uses. An entitlement may be used for a division
to allow a conditional use provided a deed restriction is placed on the
remainder pursuant to division (G)(4)(a) above and the division size is set by
the Planning Commission as part of the conditional use permit process. The
requirement for a deed restriction may be waived by the Planning Commission if
the division is less than one acre in size and for the sole purpose of utility
or public service structures needed to promote public health, safety or
welfare. The Planning Commission shall waive the requirement for a deed
restriction if the division is solely for the creation of a site for a township
hall.
      (7)   Alteration of existing lots. Existing legal lots of record may be
altered in size in compliance with these regulations provided an order
approving such alteration is signed by the Zoning Administrator and filed with
the County Recorder. Said order shall prohibit the creation of any new
residential building sites, except in accord with this chapter.
      (8)   General. The intent of these standards shall be to preserve an
average density of one dwelling per 40 acres in the AG District, except where
legal lots of record are involved. This intent shall be considered when
questions regarding interpretation of these regulations may arise.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-01, passed 5--2016; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-
2016; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 17-3, passed ---; Ord. 18-2, passed 6-
19-2018; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 19-4, passed 8-27-2019; Ord. 20-1,
passed 12-29-2020; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.049 URBAN/RURAL TRANSITIONAL (R-1).
   (A)   Purpose. This District is established in areas within the county for
the purpose of allowing limited urban growth. The major purpose of this
district is to provide areas within the county where urban development can take
place and where urban services can be readily extended and provided. This
district may be allowed adjacent to cities where sanitary sewer and other
services are available and for riparian shoreline lots on suitable lakes.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached residences;
      (2)   Any agricultural land use already existing;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Forestry;
      (5)   Nurseries, excluding greenhouses;
      (6)   Public recreation;
      (7)   Livestock, poultry and animals subject to §
155.088(B) of this chapter; and
      (8)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Fences;
      (2)   Gardening and other horticultural uses where no sale of products is
conducted on the site;
      (3)   Decorative landscape features such as statues, rocks, reflecting
ponds and benches;
      (4)   Public recreation equipment; and
      (5)   Garages and non-commercial pole structures subject to the following
size restrictions:
         (a)   Lot area under 20,000 square feet: maximum 800 square feet
structure with maximum side wall height of 12 feet;
         (b)   Lot area over 20,000 square feet but less than 80,000 square
feet: maximum 1,400 square feet structure with maximum side wall height of 14
feet; and
         (c)   Lot area over 80,000 square feet: maximum 2,000 square feet
structure with maximum side wall height of 14 feet.
   (D)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Essential services - telephone, telegraph and power distribution
poles and lines and necessary appurtenant equipment and structures such as
transformers, unit substations and equipment houses;
         (b)   Fire station;
         (c)   Police station;
         (d)   Cemeteries;
         (e)   Other essential services - water supply buildings, reservoirs,
wells, regional pipelines;
         (f)   Residential subdivisions;
         (g)   Township halls; and
         (h)   Churches.
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   All home occupations;
         (b)   Any change in agricultural practice that marks an
intensification of present agricultural use;
         (c)   Commercial outdoor recreation;
         (d)   Seasonal produce stands;
         (e)   One mobile home per farmstead (necessary to farm operations and
at least 800 square feet in area);
         (f)   Medical and dental clinics;
         (g)   Golf courses;
         (h)   Schools within one-half mile of incorporated cities;
         (i)   Commercial day care center; and
         (j)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All other uses not listed as permitted, accessory,
conditional, or interim shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Performance standards. (Parcels in the R-1 District shall be limited
to one-half animal unit per acre and less than ten animal units total, except
as allowed under §
155.008(B) of this chapter.)
      (1)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected shall exceed two
and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
25                                  From right-of-way of cul-de-sac or approved
                                    “T”
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side
of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
of either road.
         (c)   Within existing developed areas, the above front yard setback
requirements may be adjusted to coincide with average setback occurring on
either side of the proposed building within 300 feet; except that, no building
shall be located less than 20 feet from the right-of-way line.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a minimum side yard of 15
feet for principal uses and ten feet for accessory uses unless the building is
housing livestock, then the setback is 100 feet for livestock buildings.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. For all non-livestock buildings, there shall
be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 15 feet with the setback at 100
feet for a livestock building.
      (5)   Lot area regulations.
         (a)   For dwelling units with private on-site sewage treatment systems
water wells: one acre; and
         (b)   For dwelling units with public sewage treatment systems: 20,000
square feet.
      (6)   Lot width and depth regulations.
         (a)   For dwelling units with private sewage treatment systems:
            1.   Lot width: 150 feet; and
            2.   Lot depth: 150 feet.
         (b)   For dwelling units with public sewage treatment systems:
            1.   Lot width: 100 feet; and
            2.   Lot depth: 100 feet.
      (7)   Location. Structures may be so located on each lot such that
subdivision is possible when central sewer and water facilities become
available.
      (8)   General regulations. Additional requirements for parking, signs,
sewage systems, and other regulations set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-
2016; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.050 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL (R-2).
   (A)   Purpose. The major purpose of this district is to allow for a “rural
life-style” by permitting low-density residential development in areas that are
marginal or non-feasible for agriculture.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached residences;
      (2)   Any agricultural land use already existing at the time of
subdivision;
      (3)   Forestry;
      (4)   Nurseries, excluding greenhouses;
      (5)   Public recreation; and
      (6)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Garages;
      (2)   Fences;
      (3)   Gardening and other horticultural uses where no sale of products is
conducted on the site;
      (4)   Decorative landscape features such as statues, rocks, reflecting
ponds and benches;
      (5)   Recreation equipment;
      (6)   Livestock, poultry and animals subject to provisions of §
155.088(B) of this chapter;
      (7)   Pole sheds; and
      (8)   Non-commercial wind chargers.
   (D)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Essential services - telephone, telegraph, sewer, water, gas and
power distribution poles and lines and necessary appurtenant equipment and
structures such as transformers, unit substations and equipment houses;
         (b)   Fire station;
         (c)   Police station;
         (d)   Cemeteries;
         (e)   Subdivisions, a two and one-half acre minimum lot subdivision in
areas designated as such in the land use plan;
         (f)   Township Halls; and
         (g)   Churches.
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   All home occupations;
         (b)   Any change in agricultural practice that marks an
intensification of present agricultural use;
         (c)   Commercial outdoor recreation;
         (d)   Seasonal produce stands;
         (e)   One mobile home per farmstead (necessary to the operation of the
farm operation at a minimum floor area of 800 square feet);
         (f)   Community centers; and
         (g)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All other uses not listed as permitted, accessory,
conditional, or interim shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Performance standards. Parcels in the R-2 District shall be limited to
one-half animal unit per acre and less than ten animal units total, except as
allowed under §
155.008(B) of this chapter.
      (1)   Height regulations.
         (a)   No building hereafter erected shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet in height.
         (b)   This shall not apply to wind chargers which are at least 50 feet
from any property line.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
25                                  From right-of-way of cul-de-sac or approved
                                    “T”
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side
of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
of either road.
         (c)   Within existing developed areas, the above front yard setback
requirements may be adjusted to coincide with average setback occurring on
either side of the proposed building within 300 feet; except that, no building
shall be located less than 20 feet from right-of-way line.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a minimum side yard of 30
feet for principal uses and ten feet for accessory uses unless the building is
housing livestock, then the setback is 100 feet for livestock buildings.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 30 feet for non-livestock buildings and a setback of 100 feet for
livestock buildings.
      (5)   Lot area regulations. The minimum lot size shall be two and one-
half acres.
      (6)   Lot width and depth regulations. The minimum lot width shall be 200
feet and the minimum lot depth shall be 300 feet.
      (7)   General regulations. Additional requirements for parking, signs,
sewage systems and other regulations set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016;
Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 18-2, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 22-4, passed
11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.051 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL (R-2a).
   (A)   Purpose. The major purpose of this district is to allow for a “rural
life-style” by permitting low-density residential development in areas that are
marginal or non-feasible for agriculture.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached residences;
      (2)   Any agricultural land use already existing at the time of
subdivision;
      (3)   Forestry;
      (4)   Nurseries, excluding greenhouses;
      (5)   Public recreation; and
      (6)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Garages;
      (2)   Fences;
      (3)   Gardening and other horticultural uses where no sale of products is
conducted on the site;
      (4)   Decorative landscape features such as statues, rocks, reflecting
ponds and benches;
      (5)   Recreation equipment;
      (6)   Livestock, poultry and animals subject to the provisions of §
155.008(B) of this chapter;
      (7)   Pole barns; and
      (8)   Non-commercial wind chargers.
   (D)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Essential services - telephone, telegraph, sewer, water, gas and
power distribution poles and lines and necessary appurtenant equipment and
structures such as transformers, unit substations and equipment houses;
         (b)   Fire station;
         (c)   Police station;
         (d)   Cemeteries;
         (e)   Subdivisions, five-acre minimum lot subdivision in areas
designated as such in the land use plan;
         (f)   Township Halls; and
         (g)   Churches.
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   All home occupations;
         (b)   Bed and breakfast units in single-family dwellings;
         (c)   Any change in agricultural practice that marks an
intensification of present agricultural use;
         (d)   Commercial outdoor recreation;
         (e)   Seasonal produce stands;
         (f)   One mobile home per farmstead (necessary to the operation of the
farm operation at a minimum floor area of 800 square feet);
         (g)   Community centers; and
         (h)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All other uses not listed as permitted, accessory,
conditional, or interim shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Performance standards. Parcels in the R-2(a) District shall be limited
to one-half animal unit per acre and less than ten animal units total, except
as allowed under §
155.008(B) of this chapter.
      (1)   Height regulations.
         (a)   No buildings hereafter erected shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet in height.
         (b)   This shall not apply to wind chargers which are at least 50 feet
from any property line.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance from Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
25                                  From right-of-way of cul-de-sac or approved
                                    “T”
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side
of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
of either road.
         (c)   Within existing developed areas, the above front yard setback
requirements may be adjusted to coincide with average setback occurring on
either side of the proposed building within 300 feet; except that, no building
shall be located less than 20 feet from right-of-way line.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a minimum side yard of 30
feet for principal uses and ten feet for accessory uses unless the building is
housing livestock, then the setback is 100 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 30 feet for non-livestock buildings and a setback of 100 feet for
livestock buildings.
      (5)   Lot area regulations. The minimum lot size shall be five acres.
      (6)   Lot width and depth regulations. The minimum lot width shall be 300
feet and the minimum lot depth shall be 300 feet.
      (7)   General regulations. Additional requirements for parking, signs,
sewage systems and other regulations set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-
2016; Ord. 18-2, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1,
passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.052 MULTIPLE-FAMILY URBAN DISTRICT (R-3).
   (A)   Purpose. An R-3 District is established to allow multiple-family
dwellings in areas that are provided with community water and sewer systems or
systems approved by the Pollution Control Agency, the County Environmental
Health Officer and substantiated by specific engineering data.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All uses permitted in Urban/Rural Residential
Districts.
   (C)   Accessory uses. All accessory uses permitted in Urban/Rural
Residential Districts.
   (D)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Essential services - telephone, telegraph and power distribution
poles and lines and necessary appurtenant, equipment and structures such as
transformers, unit substations and equipment housing; and
         (b)   City or town hall;
         (c)   Churches;
         (d)   Single-family attached dwellings; and
         (e)   Duplexes.
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Multiple-family dwellings;
         (b)   Student housing;
         (c)   All home occupations;
         (d)   Agricultural land use already existing at time of zoning. No
intensification or modification of agricultural activities should be allowed in
multiple-family dwelling areas;
         (e)   Commercial recreational areas;
         (f)   Prefabricated or modular manufactured housing units;
         (g)   Medical and dental clinics;
         (h)   Rest homes, hospitals;
         (i)   Community center;
         (j)   Boarding or lodging houses;
         (k)   Schools;
         (l)   Public recreation including golf courses (public or private);
         (m)   Mobile home parks subject to the standards in §
155.099 of this chapter; and
         (n)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All other uses not listed as permitted, accessory,
conditional, or interim shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Locational requirements. Apartment developments should be located
on major thoroughfares, near open green space or in large areas specifically
designed for high density development.
         (a)   When possible, apartment should serve as a buffer between
single-family homes and non-residential uses.
         (b)   The site should not be located in such a manner as to channel
traffic onto minor streets in low density residential neighborhoods.
      (2)   Site development.
         (a)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected shall exceed
two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
         (b)   Front yard regulations.
            1.   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 Federal/State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
25                                  From right-of-way of cul-de-sac or approved
                                    “T”
 
            2.   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
roads or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway
side of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front
yard of either road.
         (c)   Side yard regulations. Side yard (setback) adjacent to another
lot: 15 feet or three-fourths the height of the building, whichever is greater.
         (d)   Front and rear yard regulations. There shall be a front yard
having a depth of at least 32 feet and a rear yard of 50 feet.
         (e)   Lot area regulations. The density of single-family attached or
multi-family units shall not exceed eight per acre. No more than 30% of the
lots’ ground area shall be covered by structures.
         (f)   Lot width and depth regulations. There shall be a lot width of
at least 85 feet and a lot depth of 85 feet.
         (g)   Land use. The design shall make use of all land contained in the
site. All of the site shall be related to the circulation, recreation,
screening, building, storage, landscaping and the like so that no portion of
the site remains undeveloped.
   (G)   General regulations.
      (1)   In shoreland areas, additional restrictions concerning docking
facilities and other centralized facilities may apply in accordance with
statewide standards for management of shorelands areas.
      (2)   Additional requirements for R-3 Districts are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-
2018; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.053 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-1).
   (A)   Purpose. A B-1 District is established to accommodate those types of
businesses that require an accessibility to highways to successfully function.
To minimize unmanageable strip development, B-1 should only allow the type of
businesses that absolutely require highway accessibility.
   (B)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Essential services - utility lines and other necessary
appurtenant structures; and
         (b)   Subdivisions, minimum size of one acre; and
         (c)   Churches.
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Drive-in movie theater;
         (b)   Drive-in restaurant;
         (c)   Recreation equipment sales;
         (d)   Motels;
         (e)   Auto service stations;
         (f)   Seasonal produce stand;
         (g)   Auto sales lot;
         (h)   Cafés and restaurants;
         (i)   Parking lots;
         (j)   Any other incidental repair, processing and storage necessary to
conduct a permitted principal use; provided that, said accessory use does not
exceed 30% of the floor space of the principal building;
         (k)   Other highway-oriented business activities of the same general
character as listed;
         (l)   Commercial recreation;
         (m)   Commercial day care centers;
         (n)   Convenience-type retail outlets with high customer turnover
rate;
         (o)   Solar energy farms;
         (p)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108;
         (q)   Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) Ports; and
         (r)   Cannabis-related businesses, as regulated under §
155.112.
   (C)   Performance standards. B-1 Districts shall be located only adjacent to
thoroughfares. Service roads shall be encouraged in the B-1 Districts. The
service roads shall have access to thoroughfares only. No service roads shall
have access to local residential streets, nor shall highway business oriented
traffic be routed on or directed to local residential streets.
      (1)   Service road standards.
         (a)   Each service road shall have a minimum of 30 feet of right-of-
way exclusive of adjoining thoroughfare right-of-way.
         (b)   Each service road shall be at least 24 feet wide and must be
surfaces and have curbs.
         (c)   Two-way traffic shall be allowed on service roads.
         (d)   No parking shall be allowed on service roads.
         (e)   Access from service roads shall be no more frequent than one
access for each 500 feet of thoroughfare frontage.
      (2)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
      (3)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
160                                 State/Federal Highway
160                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
95                                  Local Road
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways which bound two or more sides of the lot, no building shall project
beyond the front yard line of either road.
      (4)   Side yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a side yard having a width of not less than 20
feet on each side of a building.
         (b)   No building shall be located within 50 feet of any side lot line
abutting a lot in any Residential or Agricultural District.
      (5)   Rear yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a minimum rear yard of 35 feet.
         (b)   No building shall be located within 50 feet of any side lot line
abutting a lot in any Residence or Agricultural District.
      (6)   Lot width and depth regulations. There shall be a minimum lot width
and depth of 150 feet.
      (7)   Water and sewer system. The developer shall be required to indicate
the proposed water and sewage disposal system to serve the development.
      (8)   Screening and fencing. The county may require the screening and
fencing of commercial uses especially on side and rear yards facing Residential
and Agricultural Districts.
      (9)   Coverage. No more than 50% of the lot ground area shall be covered
by buildings.
      (10)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking, shopping
centers and other regulations are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
   (D)   Multiple use buildings. In general, only one principal use may be
permitted per lot. Where buildings are proposed which will contain more than
one use, each use or change of use shall require a separate conditional use
permit.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 24-7, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 155.054 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (B-2).
   (A)   Purpose. The General Business District is intended to provide a
district that will allow general retail and commercial uses to serve existing
population.
   (B)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Subdivisions, minimum lot size of one acre;
         (b)   Essential services - telephone, telegraph and power distribution
poles and lines and necessary appurtenant equipment and structures; and
         (c)   Churches.
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Commercial recreation;
         (b)   Hospitals;
         (c)   Hotel and motel;
         (d)   Offices and medical centers;
         (e)   Retail trade;
         (f)   Government buildings;
         (g)   Wholesale business;
         (h)   Indoor recreation, such as movie theater;
         (i)   Restaurants, cafés and supper clubs;
         (j)   Passenger transportation terminal;
         (k)   Drive-in business;
         (l)   Clubs, lodges;
         (m)   Automobile service stations;
         (n)   Landscaping;
         (o)   Parking facilities;
         (p)   Fences;
         (q)   Any incidental repair, processing and storage necessary to
conduct a principal use, but not exceeding 30% of the floor space of the
principal building;
         (r)   On-off sale liquor establishment;
         (s)   Freight transportation terminals;
         (t)   Industry, such as a printing company, that requires direct
contact with the public for sales;
         (u)   Single dwelling units;
         (v)   Commercial day care centers;
         (w)   Solar energy farms;
         (x)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108;
         (y)   Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) Ports; and
         (z)   Cannabis-related businesses, as regulated under §
155.112.
   (C)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed two and one half stories or 35 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   Setbacks:
 
Required Setback Distance From Road Road Class
Centerline
130                                 State Highway
130                                 County Road and State Aid Highway
65                                  Local Road
 
         (b)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highway side of each corner lot. No building shall project beyond the front
yard line of either road.
      (3)   Side yard regulations.
         (a)   Minimum side yard shall be 20 feet.
         (b)   No building shall be located within 50 feet of any side lot line
abutting a lot in any Residential or Agricultural District.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a minimum rear yard of 35 feet.
         (b)   No building shall be located within 50 feet of any rear lot line
abutting a lot in any Residential or Agricultural District.
      (5)   Lot width and depth regulations. There shall be a minimum lot width
and depth of 150 feet.
      (6)   Sewage disposal and water system. The developer shall be required
to indicate the proposed water and sewage disposal systems to serve the
development.
      (7)   Screening and fencing. The county may require the screening and
fencing of commercial uses especially on side and rear yards facing residential
and agricultural uses.
      (8)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking, shopping
centers and other regulations are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
      (9)   Coverage. No more than 50% of the lot ground area shall be covered
by buildings.
   (D)   Multiple use buildings. In general, only one principal use may be
permitted per lot. Where buildings are proposed which will contain more than
one use, each use or change of use shall require a separate conditional use
permit.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 24-7, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 155.055 GENERAL INDUSTRY DISTRICT (I-1).
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of the I-1 General Industry District is to provide
a district that will:
      (1)   Allow general industrial development related to the existing
development in the urban communities of the county;
      (2)   Encourage development that is compatible with surrounding or
abutting districts; and
      (3)   Provide developmental standards that will not impair the traffic-
carrying capabilities of abutting roads and highways.
   (B)   Conditional and interim uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Subdivisions, minimum lot size of one acre;
         (b)   Public service structures, including power substations, gas
regulator stations, sewage disposal plant, telephone exchange, police or fire
station, elevated tanks, water works and other essential utilities; and
         (c)   Railroad rights-of-way and railroad yards;
      (2)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Bottling establishments;
         (b)   Building material sales and storage and lumber yards;
         (c)   Camera and photographic supplies manufacturing;
         (d)   Cartage and express facilities;
         (e)   Cartography and bookbinding;
         (f)   Commercial radio and television transmitting stations and
towers;
         (g)   Contractor's offices, shops and yards for plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, paper hanging, roofing, ventilating, air conditioning,
masonry, electrical and refrigeration;
         (h)   Dry cleaning plants;
         (i)   Electric light or power-generating stations;
         (j)   Electrical and electronic products manufacturers;
         (k)   Electrical service shops;
         (l)   Engraving, printing and publishing;
         (m)   Extraction, processing or storage of sand, gravel, stone or
other minerals, bituminous plants and concrete mixing plants;
         (n)   Farm implement dealerships;
         (o)   Feed and fertilizer manufacturing;
         (p)   Freight terminal;
         (q)   Garage for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles;
         (r)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
         (s)   Ice sales and storage;
         (t)   Jewelry manufacturer;
         (u)   Junk yards, salvage yards, sanitary landfills;
         (v)   Laundries;
         (w)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
         (x)   Monument works;
         (y)   Slaughter houses;
         (z)   Storage or warehousing;
         (aa)   Wholesale business and office establishments;
         (bb)   Any use permitted in the B-2 General Business District;
         (cc)   Any manufacturing, fabrication, production, processing,
cleaning, storage, servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or
products which conform with the performance standards set forth for this
district;
         (dd)   Solar energy farms;
         (ee)   Solar energy systems as regulated under §
155.108;
         (ff)   Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) Ports; and
         (gg)   Cannabis-related businesses, as regulated under §
155.112.
   (C)   Conditions.
      (1)   Storm drainage facilities shall be provided.
      (2)   Municipal sanitary sewer and water shall be provided or a
substitute acceptable to the Environmental Health Officer.
      (3)   The County Planning Commission shall set additional conditions on
any conditional or interim use permit to carry out the intent of the
Comprehensive Plan and this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses
permitted in division (B) above and shall be permitted accessory uses within a
I-1 General Industry District.
   (E)   Height, yard and lot width and building coverage regulations.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed four stories or 45 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 130 feet
from the centerline of U.S. highways and state highways and 130 feet from the
centerline of all county state aid highways and county highways.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 65 feet
from the centerline of all other public rights-of-way.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads
or highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side
of each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
line of either road.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. A minimum side yard of 25 feet shall be
required; except that, no building shall be located within 50 feet of any side
lot line abutting any residence district.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 35 feet, except that no building shall be located within 50 feet
of any rear lot line abutting a lot in zoned for a Residential or Agricultural
use.
      (5)   Lot width and depth regulations. There shall be a minimum lot width
and depth of 150 feet.
      (6)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of the total area of a
lot shall be covered by buildings.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional requirements for signs, parking and
other regulations in the I-1 General Industry District are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 18-2, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 22-4, passed 11-29-
2022; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 24-7, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 155.056 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP).
   (A)   Statutory authorization and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. This floodplain section is adopted
pursuant to the authorization and
policies contained in M.S. Ch. 103F; Minn. Rules, parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200; the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) in 44 C.F.R. 59 to 78; and the planning and zoning enabling legislation
in M.S. Ch. 394, as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Purpose.
         (a)   This section regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
the county. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which
may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose
of this section to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
         (b)   This section is adopted in the public interest to promote sound
land use practices, and floodplains are a land resource to be developed in a
manner which will result in minimum loss of life and threat to health, and
reduction of private and public economic loss caused by flooding.
         (c)   This section is adopted to maintain eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
         (d)   This section is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
      (3)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. The standards in this section take precedence over
any less restrictive, conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
      (4)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. Not all flood risk is
mapped. Larger floods do occur, and the flood height may be increased by man-
made or natural causes, such as ice jams or bridge openings restricted by
debris. This section does not create liability on the part of the county or its
officers or employees for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
section, or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in
this section must be interpreted according to common usage and so as to give
this section its most reasonable application. For the purpose of this section,
and in addition to the provision of §
155.003 of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, as defined in this section, that
is on the same parcel of property as, and is incidental to, the principal
structure or use; an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE specifically excludes structures used
for human habitation.
      (2)   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. BASE FLOOD is synonymous with the term REGIONAL
FLOOD used in Minn. Rules, part 6120.5000.
      (3)   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood,
regional flood, or 1% annual chance flood. The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is
used in the Flood Insurance Study.
      (4)   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
      (5)   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent,
with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either
continuously or periodically.
      (6)   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Buildings and structures that contain
essential facilities and services necessary for emergency response and
recovery, or that pose a substantial risk to the public in the event of
failure, disruption of function, or damage by flooding. Specifically, this
includes facilities identified as Flood Design Class 4 in ASCE 24-14, Flood
Resistant Design and Construction, as amended. Examples include health care
facilities, facilities required for emergency response, power generating
stations, communications towers, or electrical substations.
      (7)   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
      (8)   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location
of floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      (9)   FARM FENCE. An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run
wire, further specified in M.S. § 344.02, subd. 1(a) through 1(d), as they may
be amended from time to time.
      (10)   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (11)   FLOOD. A temporary rise in the stream flow or water surface
elevation from any source that results in the inundation of normally dry land
areas.
      (12)   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the 1% annual chance floodplain
located outside of the floodway.
      (13)   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP
(DFIRM).
      (14)   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The study referenced in division (C)
(2), which is an examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards,
and if appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an examination,
evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or flood-related
erosion hazards.
      (15)   FLOODPLAIN. The beds, channel and the areas adjoining a wetland,
lake or watercourse, or other source which have been or hereafter may be
inundated by the base flood.
      (16)   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to
flooding, primarily for the reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      (17)   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a
watercourse and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which must be
reserved to carry or store the base flood discharge without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one-half foot.
      (18)   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN. Those floodplains designated on the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps referenced in division (C)(2), but that do not have a
delineated floodway.
      (19)   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle that has all three of the
following:
         (a)   Eight thousand five hundred pounds gross vehicle weight rating
or less;
         (b)   Vehicle curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less; and
         (c)   Basic vehicle frontal area less than 45 square feet.
      (20)   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of an adopted floodplain management
regulation and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
      (21)   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The main building or other structure on a lot
that is utilized for the property's principal use.
      (22)   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal
segment of a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
      (23)   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation that is
one foot above the elevation of the base flood plus any increases in the water
surface elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway. These increases in water surface elevations are
typically identified in the Floodway Data Tables, found in the Flood Insurance
Study.
      (24)   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      (25)   STAGE INCREASE. Any increase in the water surface elevation during
the 1% annual chance flood caused by encroachments on the floodplain.
      (26)   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, foundations, or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
      (27)   STRUCTURE. A roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
Recreational vehicles not considered travel ready, as detailed in division (J)
(2)(b), shall also be considered a structure for the purposes of this section.
      (28)   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
      (29)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE. For the purpose of this section, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is
defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1.
      (30)   VARIANCE. As defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1, § l55.003(B)(170), and
M.S. § 394.27, subd. 7.
      (31)   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently in a definitive direction. Applies to either
natural or artificially constructed channels.
   (C)   Jurisdiction and districts.
      (1)   Lands to which section applies. This section applies to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the county within the boundaries of the Floodway,
Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts.
         (a)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts. The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in
addition to any other requirements. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
         (b)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the
base flood elevation (BFE) shall be the governing factor in locating the outer
boundaries of the 1% annual chance floodplain.
         (c)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will
be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of
Adjustment and to submit technical evidence.
      (2)   Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps together
with all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of the official zoning map and this section. The attached material
includes the Flood Insurance Study for Wright County, Minnesota, and
Incorporated Areas, and Flood Insurance Rate Map Index panels 27171 CIND1A and
27171CIND2A, all dated June 20, 2024, and prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. These materials are on file in the Wright County Office of
Planning and Zoning.
      (3)   Districts.
         (a)   Floodway District. Those areas within Zones AE delineated within
floodway areas as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced in division
(C)(2).
         (b)   Flood Fringe District. Those areas within Zones AE located
outside of the delineated floodway, as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
referenced in division (C)(2).
         (c)   General Floodplain District. Those areas within Zones A and AE
that do not have a floodway delineated as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps referenced in division (C)(2).
      (4)   Municipal boundary adjustments and townships. The Flood Insurance
Rate Map panels referenced in division (C)(2) apply countywide. If at any point
any lands come under the jurisdiction of another local government, the
following shall apply:
         (a)   City adjustments of corporate boundaries, including but not
limited to annexations and detachments, shall shift floodplain administrative
authority of all affected lands immediately upon the date of the boundary
adjustment occurring. Cities retain jurisdiction for all incorporated lands,
and the county retains jurisdiction under this section on all unincorporated
lands, except as provided under division (C)(4)(b) below or through some form
of administrative agreement.
         (b)   Townships wishing to adopt official controls under M.S. §
394.33, as may be amended from time to time, may only obtain zoning authority
for floodplain controls when they have adopted an ordinance that is approved by
the Department of Natural Resources and has formally enrolled in the NFIP.
Until this occurs, the county shall retain jurisdiction under this section on
all unincorporated lands. In the event that a township returns zoning
authority, the county shall resume that authority.
   (D)   Requirements for all floodplain districts.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify compliance with all applicable standards outlined in
this section prior to the following uses or activities.
         (a)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, repair, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
requires a permit to determine if such work, either separately or in
conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement, as
specified in division (L)(1)(c).
         (b)   The construction of a fence, pool, deck, or placement of
anything that may cause a potential obstruction. Farm fences, as defined in
division (B) of this section, are not considered to be an obstruction, and as
such, do not require a permit.
         (c)   The change or expansion of a nonconforming use.
         (d)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
         (e)   The placement of fill, excavation, utilities, on-site sewage
treatment systems, or other service facilities.
         (f)   The storage of materials or equipment, in conformance with
division (D)(3)(b).
         (g)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including
stabilization projects or the construction of new or replacement dams, culverts
and bridges). A local permit is not required if a public waters work permit has
been obtained from the Department of Natural Resources, unless a substantial
alteration above the ordinary high-water level is also occurring.
         (h)   Any other type of development, as defined in division (B) of
this section.
      (2)   No permit required. Subject to the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, certain uses or activities may be exempt from obtaining a
permit, such as planting a garden, farming, or other obviously insignificant
activities such as putting up a mailbox or flagpole. The continuation of
existing uses, when the associated activities do not encroach further on the
regulatory floodplain or trigger associated standards in this section, do not
require a permit.
      (3)   Minimum development standards.
         (a)   All development must:
            1.   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            2.   Be constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood
damage;
            3.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
            4.   Be constructed with heating, ventilation, duct work, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities elevated at least up to the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE). Water, sewage, electrical, and
other utility lines below the RFPE shall be constructed so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within them during conditions of flooding;
            5.   Be reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage;
            6.   Be assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
            7.   Not be detrimental to uses in adjoining areas;
            8.   Not adversely affect the efficiency or restrict the flood
carrying capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system; and
            9.   Ensure that any fill or other materials are protected from
erosion, discharge, and sediment entering surface waters by the use of
vegetative cover or other methods as soon as possible.
         (b)   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE),
floodproofed, or protected by other measures as approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters,
such as sewage; sand; rock; wrecked and discarded equipment; dredged spoil;
municipal, agricultural or industrial waste; and other wastes as further
defined in M.S. § 115.01, are prohibited unless adequate safeguards approved by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency are provided. For projects not requiring
approvals by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, adequate safeguards must
be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
         (c)   Critical facilities shall be located so that the lowest floor is
not less than two feet above the base flood elevation (BFE), or the 0.2% annual
chance flood elevation, whichever is higher.
Table 1 Summary of Permitting Requirements for Structures
Structure Type Floodway Flood Fringe Standards*
Table 1 Summary of Permitting Requirements for Structures
Structure Type         Floodway               Flood Fringe        Standards*
Accessory structures - Only specific uses and
on fill                types allowed - with   Allowed with permit (F)(2)(c)4.b.
                       CUP
Accessory structures - Only specific uses and
alt. elevation methods types allowed - with   Allowed with permit (F)(2)(c)4.c.
                       CUP
Accessory structures - Only specific uses and
wet floodproofing      types allowed - with   Allowed with permit (F)(2)(c)4.a.
                       CUP
Accessory structures - Only specific uses and
dry (watertight)       types allowed - with   Allowed with permit (F)(2)(c)4.d.
floodproofing          CUP
Residential - on fill  Not allowed            Allowed with permit (F)(2)(a)
Residential - alt.     Not allowed            Allowed with CUP    (F)(4)
elevation methods
Residential - dry
(watertight)           Not allowed            Not allowed         N/A
floodproofing and/or
basement below RFPE
Nonresidential - on    Not allowed            Allowed with permit (F)(2)(b)1.
fill
Nonresidential - alt.  Not allowed            Allowed with permit (F)(2)(b)2.
elevation methods
Nonresidential - dry
(watertight)           Not allowed            Allowed with permit (F)(2)(b)4.
floodproofing and/or
basement below RFPE
Note:
*Many of these standards are cross-referenced
 
   (E)   Floodway District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in floodway. Development allowed in the Floodway
District is limited to that which has low flood damage potential and will not
obstruct flood flows, increase velocities, or increase the water surface
elevations of the 1% annual chance flood. The following uses and activities may
be allowed with a permit, subject to the standards in division (E)(2):
         (a)   Agricultural uses, recreational uses, parking lots, loading
areas, airport landing strips, water control structures, navigational
facilities, as well as public open space uses.
         (b)   Roads, driveways, railroads, trails, bridges, and culverts.
         (c)   Public utility facilities and water-oriented industries which
must be in or adjacent to watercourses.
         (d)   Grading, filling, land alterations, and shoreline stabilization
projects.
         (e)   No structures, as defined in division (B), are allowed in the
Floodway District, except structures accessory to the uses detailed in
divisions (E)(1)(a) and (E)(3)(a), which require a CUP under division (E)(3)
(b).
         (f)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops, provided
the top of the dike does not exceed the 10% annual chance flood event.
      (2)   Standards for permitted uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in division (D):
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that the development will not
result in any of the following during the 1% annual chance flood: cause a stage
increase of 0.00 feet or greater, obstruct flood flows, or increase velocities.
This shall be demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed
by a professional engineer, or using other standard engineering practices (e.g.
projects that restore the site to the previous cross-sectional area). This is
commonly documented through a "no-rise certification."
         (b)   Any development that would result in a stage increases greater
than 0.00 feet may only be allowed with a permit if the applicant has applied
for and received approval for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) in
accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12. Map revisions must follow the procedures in
divisions (K)(1)(e) and (N).
         (c)   Any development resulting in decreases to the water surface
elevation of the base flood identified in the Flood Insurance Study requires a
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) following the procedures in divisions (K)(1)(e)
and (N).
         (d)   Any development in the beds of public waters that will change
the course, current or cross section is required to obtain a public waters work
permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, as may be amended from time to time,
or a utility crossing license in accordance with M.S. § 84.415, as may be
amended from time to time, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit.
         (e)   Any facility used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the Zoning Administrator
that provides adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that
within the area inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) is less than four.
         (f)   Fill and other land alteration activities must offer minimal
obstruction to the flow of flood waters and be protected from erosion and
sediment entering surface waters by the use of vegetative cover, riprap or
other methods as soon as possible.
      (3)   Conditional and interim uses in floodway. The following uses and
activities may be permitted as conditional and interim uses, if authorized in
the zoning district, subject to the standards detailed in division (E)(4):
         (a)   Commercial extractive uses, and storage and stockpiling yards
may be permitted as an interim use.
         (b)   Structures accessory to uses detailed in divisions (E)(1)(a) and
(E)(3)(a) may be permitted as a conditional use.
      (4)   Standards for conditional and interim uses in floodway. In addition
to the applicable standards detailed in divisions (D), (E)(2) and (K)(2):
         (a)   Extractive uses and storage of materials require the completion
of a site development and restoration plan, to be approved by the county.
         (b)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to the uses detailed
in divisions (E)(1)(a) and (E)(3)(a) must be constructed and placed so as to
offer a minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters, and are subject to the
standards in division (F)(2)(c) of this section.
   (F)   Flood Fringe District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in flood fringe. Any uses or activities allowed in
any applicable underlying zoning districts may be allowed with a permit,
subject to the standards set forth in division (F)(2).
      (2)   Standards for permitted uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in division (D):
         (a)   Residential structures.
            1.    Elevation on fill. Structures erected, constructe d,
reconstruc ted, altered, or moved on fill within the Flood Fringe District
shall be placed so that the lowest floor, as defined in §
155.003(B), is elevated at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
(RFPE). The finished fill elevation shall be at or above the elevation
associated with the base flood plus any stage increases that result from
designation of a floodway. Fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure. Elevations must be certified
by a registered professional engineer, land surveyor or other qualified person
designated by the Zoning Administrator. Elevation methods alternative to these
fill standards are subject to a conditional use permit, as provided in division
(F)(3)(a) of this section (Figure 1). Construction of this type shall only be
permitted in locations where the natural ground is no lower than three feet
below the base flood elevation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1229.gif]
 
         (b)   Nonresidential principal structures. Nonresidential principal
structures must meet one of the following construction methods:
            1.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill, meeting
the standards in division (F)(2)(a) of this section. Fill for nonresidential
structures is not required to be extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of
the structure.
            2.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may be elevated
using methods alternative to the fill standards in division (F)(2)(a) of this
section. Such methods include the use of blocks, pilings (Figure 2), filled
stem walls (Figure 3), or internally-flooded enclosed areas (Figure 4), such as
crawl spaces, attached garages, or tuck under garages.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c0740778f60893f19739c9c14f0e2966050a6c75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1231.gif]
 
            3.    Designs accommodating for internally flooded enclosed areas
must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet
or exceed the standards detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1, as amended, as
well as the following standards:
               a.   The lowest floor, as defined in §
155.003(B), shall be elevated at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation (RFPE).
               b.   The floor of the enclosed area must be at or above the
exterior grade on at least one side of the structure.
               c.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there shall be a minimum of two openings below the base flood elevation on at
least two sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, have a net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters without human intervention.
               d.   Internally flooded enclosed areas shall only be used for
the parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Bathrooms and toilet
rooms shall not be allowed. Such areas shall be subject to a deed-restricted
non-conversion agreement as well as periodic inspections with the issuance of
any permit.
            4.   Dry floodproofing. Structures having watertight enclosed
basements or spaces below the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) must
meet the following standards:
               a.   Walls must be substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, with structural components having the capacity of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy, at least up to the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE);
               b.   Must meet the standards of FEMA Technical Bulletin 3, as
amended; and
               c.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall be
required to certify that the design and methods of construction meet the
standards detailed in this section.
         (c)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures must meet the
following standards:
            1.   Structures shall not be designed or used for human habitation.
            2.   Structures will have a low flood damage potential.
            3.   Structures with fewer than two rigid walls, such as carports,
gazebos, and picnic pavilions, may be located at an elevation below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
            4.   Structures with two or more rigid walls, must meet one of the
following construction methods:
               a.   Wet floodproofing. Structures may be floodproofed in a way
to accommodate internal flooding. Such structures shall constitute a minimal
investment not to exceed 576 square feet in size, one-story in height, and
shall only be used for parking and storage. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
and shall allow automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human
intervention.
               b.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill,
meeting the standards in division (F)(2)(a) of this section. Fill is not
required to be extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
               c.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may have their
lowest floor elevated above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE)
through methods alternative to the fill standards in division (F)(2)(c)4.b.,
and must meet the standards in division (F)(2)(b)2. of this section.
               d.   Dry floodproofing. Structures may be dry-floodproofed, or
watertight, meeting the standards in division (F)(2)(b)4. of this section.
         (d)   All new principal structures must provide vehicular access no
lower than one foot below the base flood elevation (BFE), unless a flood
warning/emergency evacuation plan has been approved by the county.
         (e)   Any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the county that provides
adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that within the area
inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet) multiplied by the
velocity (in feet per second) is less than four.
         (f)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of division (J) of this section.
      (3)   Conditional and interim uses in flood fringe. The following uses
and activities may be permitted as conditional or interim uses, subject to the
standards in division (F)(4):
         (a)   Alternative elevation methods - residential structures.
Residential structures with their lowest floor elevated above the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE) using methods alternative to the fill
requirements in division (F)(2)(a) shall require a conditional use permit.
         (b)   Those uses or structures listed as conditional or interim uses
in the underlying zoning district.
      (4)   Standards for conditional and interim uses in flood fringe. In
addition to the applicable standards detailed in divisions (D), (F)(2) and (K)
(2): All residential structures with lowest floors elevated through alternative
elevation methods must meet the standards in division (F)(2)(b)2. of this
section.
   (G)   General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in General Floodplain District.
         (a)   Until the floodway is delineated, allowable uses will be
restricted to those listed in the Floodway District, division (E).
         (b)   All other uses are subject to a floodway/flood fringe
determination as provided in division (G)(4), in addition to the standards
provided in divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3). Permitted uses shall be determined as
follows:
            1.   If the development is determined to be in the Floodway
District, division (E) applies.
            2.   If the development is determined to be in the Flood Fringe
District, division (F) applies.
      (2)   Determining flood elevations.
         (a)   All development requires a determination of the base flood
elevation (BFE). Exceptions to this requirement include projects that restore
the site to the previous cross- sectional area, such as shore stabilization or
culvert replacement projects. Base flood elevations (BFE) may be found using
best available data from any federal, state, or other source (including MNDNR's
Lake & Flood Elevations Online (LFEO) Viewer).
         (b)   The regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) can be
determined by assuming a one-half foot stage increase to accommodate for future
cumulative impacts. A stage increase does not need to be assumed along lakes,
wetlands, and other basins that are not affected by velocities.
      (3)   Encroachment analysis.
         (a)   Encroachments due to development may not allow stage increases
more than one-half foot at any point, unless through a map revision following
the procedures in divisions (K)(1)(e) and (N). This evaluation must include the
cumulative effects of previous encroachments and must be documented with
hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by a professional engineer, or
using other standard engineering practices. A lesser water surface elevation
increase than one-half foot is required if, due to the water surface level
increase, increased flood damages would potentially result.
         (b)   Alterations or changes that result in stage decreases are
allowed and encouraged.
      (4)   Standards for the analysis of floodway boundaries.
         (a)   Requirements for detailed studies. Any development, as requested
by the Zoning Administrator, shall be subject to a detailed study to determine
the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the limits of the Floodway
District. This determination must be consistent with the minimum standards for
hydrologic and hydraulic mapping standards and techniques, as detailed in Minn.
Rules, part 6120.5600, subpart 4 and FEMA Guidelines and Standards for Flood
Risk Analysis and Mapping, as revised. Additionally:
            1.   A regulatory floodway necessary to carry the discharge of the
1% annual chance flood must be selected without increasing the water surface
elevation more than one-half foot at any point. This determination should
include the cumulative effects of previous encroachments. A lesser water
surface elevation increase than one-half foot is required if, due to the water
surface level increase, increased flood damages would potentially result; and
            2.   An equal degree of encroachment on both sides of the stream
within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway boundaries, unless
topography, existing development patterns, and comprehensive land use plans
justify a modified approach, as approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
         (b)   Other acceptable methods. For areas where a detailed study is
not available or required:
            1.   Development prohibited in floodways (e.g. most buildings)
requires a floodway/flood fringe determination to verify the development is
within the flood fringe. This determination must be done by a professional
engineer or utilize other accepted engineering practices. The Department of
Natural Resources may also provide technical assistance and must approve any
alternative methods used to determine floodway boundaries.
            2.   For areas where the floodway has not been determined in and
along lakes, wetlands, and other basins, the following methodology may be used
as an alternative to division (G)(4)(b)1. above, provided these areas are not
affected by velocities and the lot is able to accommodate a building site above
the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE): All areas that are at or
below the ordinary high-water level, as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14,
as amended from time to time, will be considered floodway, and all areas below
the base flood elevation (BFE) but above the ordinary high-water level will be
considered flood fringe, provided that within 25 feet of the ordinary high-
water level, or within the shore impact zone as identified in the community's
shoreland ordinance, whichever distance is greater, land alterations shall be
restricted to:
               a.   The minimum required to accommodate beach areas, access
areas, and accessory structures as permitted, not to exceed a volume greater
than ten cubic yards; projects involving volumes exceeding ten cubic yards
require floodway/flood fringe determination in accordance with the procedures
in division (G)(4)(b)1.; and
               b.   The minimum required to accommodate shoreline stabilization
projects to correct an identified erosion problem as verified by a qualified
resource agency or the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Subdivision standards. All subdivided land must meet the following
requirements. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this section.
      (1)   All lots within floodplain districts must be suitable for a
building site outside of the Floodway District.
      (2)   Subdivision of lands within the floodplain districts may not be
approved if the cost of providing governmental services would impose an
unreasonable economic burden on the county.
      (3)   All subdivisions must have vehicular access both to the subdivision
and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), unless a flood warning/emergency
evacuation plan has been approved by the county.
      (4)   The Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the required elevation of all access
roads must be clearly identified on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
   (I)   Public and private utilities, service facilities, roads, bridges, and
railroads.
      (1)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges must be elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE)
where such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area, or
where failure or interruption would result in danger to public health or
safety. Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower
elevation where failure or interruption of transportation services would not
endanger the public health or safety. All public transportation facilities
should be designed to minimize increases in flood elevations.
      (2)   Public utilities. All utilities such as gas, electrical, sewer, and
water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be elevated and/or
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters. All public utilities should be designed to minimize
increases in flood elevations. New solid waste management facilities, as
defined in Minn. Rules, part 7035.0300, are prohibited in the 1% annual chance
floodplain. Water supply systems are subject to the provisions in Minn. Rules,
part 4725.4350.
      (3)   Private on-site water supply, individual sewage treatment systems,
and other service facilities. Private facilities shall be subject to applicable
provisions detailed in division (I)(2). In addition, new or replacement on-site
sewage treatment systems are to be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during times of flooding, shall not be located in a
designated floodway, and are subject to the provisions in Minn. Rules, part
7080.2270.
   (J)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
are subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be placed and
elevated in compliance with division (F) of this section and must be securely
anchored to a system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors.
         (b)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing
manufactured home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in
division (H) of this section.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational
vehicles placed in existing recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds or lots of
record in the floodplain must either:
         (a)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (J)(1);
or
         (b)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
            1.   The vehicle must be fully licensed.
            2.   The vehicle must be ready for highway use, meaning on wheels
or the internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick-disconnect
type utilities.
            3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
            4.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided they do not hinder the removal of the vehicle should
flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in divisions (D) and (F)(2)(c).
   (K)   Administration.
      (1)   Duties. A Zoning Administrator or other official must administer
and enforce this section.
         (a)   Permit application requirements. Permit applications must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The permit application must include the
following, as applicable:
            1.   A site plan showing all existing or proposed buildings,
structures, service facilities, potential obstructions, and pertinent design
features having an influence on the permit.
            2.   Location and detail of grading, fill, or storage of materials.
            3.   Copies of any required local, state or federal permits or
approvals.
            4.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
         (b)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain applicable
records in perpetuity documenting:
            1.   All certifications for dry floodproofing and alternative
elevation methods, where applicable.
            2.   Analysis of no-rise in the Floodway District, as detailed in
division (E)(2)(a), and encroachment analysis ensuring no more than one-half
foot of rise in the General Floodplain District, as detailed in divisions (G)
(2)(b) and (G)(3)(a).
            3.   Final elevations, as applicable, detailing the elevation to
which structures and improvements to structures are constructed or
floodproofed. Elevations shall be determined by an engineer, architect,
surveyor or other qualified individual, as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            4.   Substantial damage and substantial improvement determinations,
as detailed in division (L)(1)(c), including the cost of improvements, repairs,
and market value.
            5.   All variance actions, including justification for their
issuance, and must report such variances as requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (c)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the finished fill and building floor
elevations or other flood protection measures are in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
         (d)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing
any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator
must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to
work in public waters in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, as amended from time
to time, this will suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the notification must
also be submitted to FEMA.
         (e)   Notification to FEMA - when physical changes increase or
decrease base flood elevations. Where physical changes affecting flooding
conditions may increase or decrease the water surface elevation of the base
flood, the county must notify FEMA of the changes in order to obtain a Letter
of Map Revision (LOMR), by submitting a copy of the relevant technical or
scientific data as soon as practicable, but no later than six months after the
date such supporting information becomes available. Within the General
Floodplain District, a map revision is only required if development results in
stage increases greater than one-half feet.
      (2)   Conditional uses, interim uses and variances.
         (a)   Process.
            1.   An application for a conditional or interim use permit within
the floodplain will be processed and reviewed in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
            2.   An application for a variance to the provisions of this
section will be processed and reviewed in accordance with M.S. § 394.27, subd.
7, as may be amended from time to time, and this section.
         (b)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria must be satisfied:
            1.   Variances must not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
            2.   Variances from the provisions of this section may only be
issued by a community upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances from the provisions in this section may only be
issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
            4.   Variances must be consistent with the general purpose of these
standards and the intent of applicable provisions in state and federal law.
            5.   Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood
protection, but no variance shall permit a lesser degree of flood protection
than the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
            6.   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a
variance in writing that:
               a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
               b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases
risks to life and property. Notification must be maintained with a record of
all variance actions.
         (c)   Considerations for approval. The county must consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this section in granting
variances, conditional, and interim use permits, including the following:
            1.   The potential danger to life and property due to increased
flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
            3.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (d)   Conditions of approval. The county may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances, conditional, and interim use permits as it deems
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this section. Such conditions may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
            2.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            3.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction.
            4.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission, and Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
         (a)   All notices of public hearings to consider variances or
conditional uses under this section must be sent to the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources or the respective area hydrologist at least ten
days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to consider subdivisions/plats
must include copies of the subdivision/plat.
         (b)   A copy of all decisions granting variances and conditional uses
under this section must be sent to the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources or respective area hydrologist within ten days of final
action.
   (L)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of
land which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this section, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this section, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Within the floodway and general floodplain districts (when a
site has been determined to be located in the floodway following the procedures
in division (G)(3), or when the floodway has not been delineated), any
expansion or enlargement of uses or structures is prohibited.
         (b)   Within all districts, any addition, modification,
rehabilitation, repair, or alteration shall be in conformance with the
provisions of this section, shall not increase the flood damage potential or
increase the degree of obstruction to flood flows, and where applicable, must
be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
         (c)   If any nonconforming structure is determined to be substantially
damaged or substantially improved based on the procedures in division (L)(2),
it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
section. Any structures located outside the 1% annual chance floodplain are
exempt from this provision.
         (d)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the
premises must conform to this section.
         (e)   If any nonconforming structure has utilities, electrical, or
mechanical equipment damaged due to flooding, it must be rebuilt in conformance
with the elevation requirements in division (D)(3)(a)4. to the greatest extent
practicable. This requirement shall apply regardless of the determinations made
in division (L)(2).
      (2)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations.
Prior to issuing any permits for additions, modifications, rehabilitations,
repairs, alterations, or maintenance to nonconforming structures, the Zoning
Administrator is required to determine if such work constitutes substantial
improvement or repair of a substantially damaged structure. A determination
must be made in accordance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Estimate the market value of the structure. In the case of
repairs, the market value of the structure shall be the market value before the
damage occurred and before any restoration or repairs are made.
         (b)   Estimate the cost of the project. The property owner shall
accommodate for inspection, and furnish other documentation needed by the
Zoning Administrator to evaluate costs.
            1.   Improvement costs shall be comprised of the market rate of all
materials and labor, as well as the costs of all ordinary maintenance and
upkeep carried out over the past one year.
            2.   Costs to repair damages shall be comprised of the market rate
of all materials and labor required to restore a building to its pre-damaged
condition regardless of the work proposed, as well as associated improvement
costs if structure is being restored beyond its pre- damaged condition.
         (c)   Compare the cost of the improvement, repairs, or combination
thereof to the estimated market value of the structure and determine whether
the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a
substantially damaged structure, as defined in division (B) of this section.
            1.   For the purposes of determining whether the proposed work
would constitute substantial improvement, the evaluation shall also include all
rehabilitations, additions, or other improvements completed since the community
has adopted floodplain standards impacting this structure.
            2.   If any nonconforming structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in division (B) of this section, it shall be considered
substantially damaged and must not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this section.
         (d)   Based on this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a determination letter and notify the property owner accordingly.
Structures determined to be substantially damaged or substantially improved may
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this section.
   (M)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Uses in violation of the section. Every structure, fill, deposit,
or other use placed or maintained in the floodplain in violation of this
section shall be considered a public nuisance.
      (2)   Civil remedies. The creation of a public nuisance may be enjoined
and the maintenance of a public nuisance under this section may be abated by an
action brought by the county or the Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this section
constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. The Zoning
Administrator may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it
including but not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact
permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance. The county must act in good
faith to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to
the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (N)   Amendments.
      (1)   Ordinance amendments. Any revisions to the floodplain maps by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or annexations of new map panels require an
ordinance amendment to update the map references in division (C)(2) of this
section.
      (2)   Required approval. All amendments to this section must be submitted
to the Department of Natural Resources for review and approval prior to
adoption, for compliance with state and federal
rules and requirements. The floodplain ordinance shall not be considered valid
until approved.
(Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023; Ord. 24-4, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 155.057 SHORELAND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The major purpose of the shoreland regulations is to control
the density and location of developments in the shorelands of the public waters
of the county in order to preserve the water quality and the natural
characteristics of the shorelands and public waters in the county. These
regulations conform to the standards and requirements of the state’s Shoreland
Management Act.
   (B)   Classification system. Waterbodies in the county have been divided
into lake and river classifications in accord with the state’s DNR shoreland
management standards. The three categories of lakes are natural environment,
recreational development, and general development. General development and
recreational development lakes are larger in size and potentially more suitable
for development and recreation purposes and can thus support a higher density
of residential development on the shoreland. Natural environment lakes are
smaller, often marshy in character, and require stricter shoreland standards to
protect the quality of the lake resource. The three categories of rivers used
in the county are transition, agriculture and tributary. Transition river areas
have a mixture of land uses and development densities. Agriculture rivers are
located in intensively cultivated areas and have potential for additional
development, however, water quality constraints and competing land uses,
particularly agriculture, will inhibit expansions. Tributary rivers also have a
wide variety of existing land uses. There is potential for additional
development and recreational use, particularly those located near roads and
cities. For a more thorough review of the classification system, reference is
made to the state’s DNR statewide standards.
   (C)   Lakes classifications.
      (1)   The shorelands zoning regulations of the county will apply to all
lakes classified as either natural environment (NE), recreational development
(RD) or general development (GD) by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
      (2)   The following lakes as mapped on the protected waters and wetlands
map, 1984, by the Department of Natural Resources, incorporated herein by
reference, are included under the Shoreland Zoning District:
Lake ID # Lake Name Classification
Lake ID # Lake Name            Classification
100128    Swan                 NE
430020    Coon                 NE
470001    Maple                NE
470002    Francis              GD
730014    Marie                RD
860001    Foster               NE
860002    Rice                 NE
860008    Unnamed              NE
860009    Martha               GD
860010    Wagner               NE
860011    Charlotte            GD
860015    School               NE
860016    Unnamed              NE
860017    Uhl                  NE
860018    Unnamed              NE
860019    Gonz                 NE
860020    Wilhelm              RD
860021    Mud                  NE
860022    Steele               NE
860023    Beebe                RD
860024    Unnamed Wetland      NE
860025    School               NE
860026    Mud                  NE
860027    Unnamed              NE
860028    Moore                NE
860029    Schmidts             NE
860031    Pelican              NE
860032    Rice                 NE
860033    Unnamed              NE
860034    Cedar                NE
860035    Unnamed              NE
860036    Unnamed              NE
860038    Mud                  NE
860039    Unnamed              NE
860041    Dean                 RD
860042    Unnamed              NE
860043    Unnamed (Aka Rooney) NE
860044    Mud                  NE
860046    Crawford             RD
860047    Unnamed              NE
860048    Cook                 NE
860049    Mary                 NE
860050    Wrens Slough         NE
860051    Constance            RD
860053    Pulaski              GD
860056    Washington           NE
860061    Schmidt              NE
860062    Unnamed              NE
860063    Green Mountain       NE
860064    Gilchrist            NE
860065    Unnamed              NE
860066    Birch                RD
860068    Mud                  NE
860069    Long                 NE
860070    Bertram              NE
860071    East Twin            NE
860072    North                NE
860073    Cedar                RD
860075    Unnamed              NE
860078    Slough               NE
860082    Paradise             NE
860084    Unnamed              NE
860085    Mud                  NE
860086    Fountain             NE
860087    Faust Slough         NE
860088    Mink                 RD
860089    Tamarack             NE
860090    Buffalo              GD
860091    Varner               RD
860092    Little Ida           NE
860093    Slough               NE
860094    West Twin            NE
860095    Black                NE
860096    Black                NE
860097    Carrigan             NE
860098    Unnamed              NE
860099    Ruckles              NE
860100    Lauzers              NE
860101    Dog                  NE
860102    Pooles               NE
860103    Ida                  NE
860105    Unnamed              NE
860106    Little Waverly       RD
860107    Deer                 RD
860108    Goose                NE
860109    Fadden               NE
860110    Unnamed              NE
860111    Unnamed              NE
860112    Malardi              NE
860114    Waverly              GD
860116    Birch                NE
860119    Sullivan             RD
860120    Ramsey               RD
860122    Light Foot           RD
860123    North Twin           NE
860124    Unnamed              NE
860125    Mary                 NE
860126    South Twin           NE
860127    Albert               NE
860128    Unnamed              NE
860129    Unnamed              NE
860131    Berthiaume           NE
860132    Abbie                NE
860133    Angus                NE
860134    Maple                GD
860136    Unnamed              NE
860137    Maria                NE
860139    Little Mary          NE
860140    Silver               RD
860142    Slough               NE
860146    Ida                  GD
860147    Little Eagle         RD
860148    Eagle                GD
860152    Millstone            NE
860153    Unnamed              NE
860154    Unnamed              NE
860156    Mary                 RD
860157    Unnamed              NE
860158    Unnamed              NE
860159    Unnamed              NE
860161    West                 NE
860163    Limestone            RD
860164    Rice                 NE
860165    Unnamed              NE
860168    Locke                GD
860170    Twin                 NE
860171    Ember                NE
860172    Unnamed              NE
860174    North                NE
860176    Melrose              NE
860177    Yaeger               NE
860178    Dog                  RD
860179    Mains                NE
860180    School Section       NE
860181    Little Rock          NE
860182    Rock                 RD
860183    Fish                 RD
860184    Dutch                RD
860185    Mud                  NE
860187    Milky                NE
860188    Emma                 RD
860190    Ann                  RD
860191    Unnamed              NE
860192    Round                NE
860193    Mary                 RD
860194    Long                 NE
860196    Unnamed              NE
860197    Maple                NE
860198    Butler               NE
860199    Howard               GD
860200    Spring               NE
860202    Junkins              NE
860203    Unnamed              NE
860204    Taylor               NE
860206    Doerfler             NE
860208    Swart Watts          NE
860209    Willima              NE
860210    Henry                NE
860211    Edward               NE
860212    Albion               NE
860213    Henshaw              NE
860214    White                NE
860215    Slough               NE
860216    Abbey                NE
860217    Granite              RD
860218    Maxim                NE
860219    Mud                  NE
860220    Unnamed              NE
860221    Camp                 RD
860222    Unnamed              NE
860223    Indian               RD
860224    Sandy                NE
860225    Unnamed              NE
860227    Cedar                GD
860229    Mink                 RD
860230    Somers               RD
860233    Sugar                GD
860234    Bass                 GD
860238    Nixon                NE
860239    Sheldon              NE
860241    Cornell              NE
860242    Wiegand              NE
860243    Grass                NE
860244    Unnamed              NE
860245    Unnamed              NE
860246    Long                 NE
860250    Smith                NE
860251    Pleasant             GD
860252    Clearwater           GD
860253    Butternut            NE
860254    Unnamed              NE
860255    Shakopee             NE
860256    Chelgren             NE
860257    Grass                NE
860258    Unnamed              NE
860259    Unnamed              NE
860261    Unnamed              NE
860263    Cokato               RD
860264    Brooks               RD
860265    Dahlgren Slough      NE
860266    Skifstrom            NE
860268    Unnamed              NE
860270    Unnamed              NE
860271    Moses                RD
860273    French               RD
860274    Dans                 NE
860275    Unnamed              NE
860277    Unnamed              NE
860278    Goose                NE
860279    West Sylvia          GD
860280    Pickerel             NE
860281    Caroline             RD
860282    Louisa               GD
860284    Augusta              RD
860285    Unnamed              NE
860286    Little John          NE
860288    John                 RD
860289    East Sylvia          GD
860290    Unnamed              NE
860292    Unnamed              NE
860293    Collinwood           RD
860295    Swan                 NE
860296    Beaver Dam           NE
860297    Scott                NE
860298    Union                RD
860301    Unnamed              NE
 
   (D)   River and stream classifications.
      (1)   The shorelands zoning regulations of the county will apply to all
rivers as follows (except the Mississippi River which is zoned wild and
scenic):
 
River                        Classification
Clearwater River             Agriculture
Crow River (main stem)       Agriculture
North Fork of the Crow River Transition
South Fork of the Crow River Agriculture
 
      (2)   All other water courses shown on the protected waters inventory map
of the county which are not classified above are assigned a classification of
tributary.
   (E)   Shoreland performance standards.
      (1)   General performance standard for lakes.
         (a)   Performance standards in shoreland areas are additional to
standards of the primary zoning district. In case of a conflict, the stricter
standard shall apply as well as any additional requirements if floodplain
elevations have been established.
         (b)   The minimum lot size of the underlying zoning district applies
only where soil percolation tests indicate the lot is sufficiently large to
provide for the drainfield and septic tank setbacks required by this chapter.
            1.   General development minimum standards.
 
Elevation of lowest floor above highest known water  4 ft.
level
Height                                               2-1/2 stories (35 ft.)
Structure setback from bluff                         30 ft.
Structure setback from NOHW                          75 ft.
Water oriented accessory structure setback from NOHW 10 ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
The lot width may be reduced to 100 feet if public sewage treatment
facilities are provided.
 
            2.   Recreational development standards.
 
Elevation of lowest floor above highest known water  4 ft.
level
Height                                               2-1/2 stories (35 ft.)
Structure setback from bluff                         30 ft.
Structure setback from NOHW                          100 ft.
Water oriented accessory structure setback from NOHW 10 ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
The lot width may be reduced to 100 feet if public sewage treatment
facilities are provided.
 
            3.   Natural environment standards.
Elevation of lowest floor above highest known water 4 ft.
level
Height                                              2-1/2 stories (35 ft.)
Lot depth                                           200 ft.
Lot size                                            2 acres
Lot width                                           200 ft.
Side yard setback                                   20 ft.
Structure setback from bluff                        30 ft.
Structure setback from NOHW                         200 ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
**Water oriented accessory structures are not permitted on natural
environment lakes.
 
      (2)   General performance standards for rivers. Performance standards in
shoreland areas are additional to standards of the primary zoning district. In
case of a conflict, the stricter standard shall apply as well as any additional
requirements if floodplain elevations have been established.
         (a)   Transition standards.
Elevation of lowest floor above highest known water 4 ft.
level
Height                                              2-1/2 stories (35 ft.)
Lot depth                                           200 ft.
Lot size                                            2 acres
Lot width                                           250 ft.
Side yard setback                                   20 ft.
Structure setback from bluff                        30 ft.
Structure setback from NOHW                         200 ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
** Water oriented accessory structures are not permitted on transition
rivers.
 
         (b)   Agriculture and tributary standards.
 
Elevation of lowest floor above highest known water   4 ft.
level
Height                                                2-1/2 stories (35 ft.)
Lot width                                             150 ft.
Structure setback from bluff                          30 ft.
Structure setback from NOHW                           100 ft.
Water oriented accessory structures setback from NOHW 10 ft.
 
      (3)   Design criteria for certain structures.
         (a)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following design requirements:
            1.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties and planned unit developments;
            2.   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties and
planned unit developments;
            3.   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings;
            4.   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground; provided, they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
            5.   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
            6.    Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (E)
(3)(a)1. through (E)(3)(a)5 are complied with.
         (b)   Decks. Decks must meet the structure setback standards. Decks
that do not meet the structure setback requirements from public waters may be
allowed without a variance to be added to structures existing on the date the
shoreland structure setbacks were established by ordinance, if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
            1.   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
            2.   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level
does not exceed 15% of the existing shoreline setback of the structure from the
ordinary high water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet or does not
encroach closer than the existing legally placed structures on adjacent
property, whichever is more restrictive; and
            3.   The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
         (c)   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities. All
accessory structures and facilities, except those that are water-oriented, must
meet or exceed structure setback standards. If allowed by water classification,
each residential lot may have one water-oriented accessory structure or
facility located closer to public waters than the structure setback if all of
the following standards are met:
            1.   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point;
            2.   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary
high water level must be at least ten feet;
            3.   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color or other means assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
            4.   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area;
            5.   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for
human habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities; and
            6.   For general development water bodies, water-oriented accessory
structures used solely for watercraft storage, and including storage of related
boating and water-oriented sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400
square feet provided the maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured
parallel to the configuration of the shoreline.
      (4)   Agriculture use standards.
         (a)   The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural
land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the ordinary high
water level.
         (b)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture,
truck farming, sod farming and wild crop harvesting are allowed if permitted
uses, if steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in
permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan (resource
management systems) consistent with the field office technical guides of the
local soil and water conservation districts or the United States Soil
Conservation Service, as provided by a qualified individual or agency.
         (c)   Animal feedlots as defined by the state’s Pollution Control
Agency, where allowed by zoning district designations, must be reviewed as
conditional uses and must meet the following standards:
            1.   New feedlots must not be located in the shoreland of
watercourses or in bluff impact zones and must meet a minimum setback of 300
feet from the ordinary high water level of all public waters basins;
            2.   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are
located within 300 feet of the ordinary high water level or within a bluff
impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the existing
ordinary high water level setback or encroach on bluff impact zones; and
            3.   A certificate of compliance, interim permit or animal feedlot
permit, when required by state’s PCA regulations must be obtained by the owner
or operator.
         (d)   Use of fertilizer, pesticides or animal wastes within shorelands
must be done in such a way as to minimize impact on the shore impact zone or
public water by proper application or use of earth or vegetation.
      (5)   Land suitability. Each lot created through subdivision must be
suitable for development in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal
alteration. Suitability analysis shall consider susceptibility to flooding,
existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development, severe erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water
supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions
unsuitable for water-based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat,
presence of significant historic sites or any other feature of the natural land
likely to be harmful to the health safety, or welfare of future residents of
the proposed divisions or of the community.
   (F)   Special Protection Shorelands District (S-1).
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The intent of the S-1 Special Protection Shoreland District is
to guide the wise development and utilization of shorelands of public waters
for the preservation of water quality and natural characteristics of all public
waters in the unincorporated areas of the county and to manage areas unsuitable
for development due to wet soils, steep slopes or larger areas of exposed
bedrock; and to manage areas of unique natural and biological characteristics
in accordance with compatible uses.
         (b)   The S-1 Special Protection Shoreland District shall be an
overlay district. Standards in the S-1 District shall apply in addition to
those in the underlying district. In the case of a conflict, the stricter
standard shall apply. Only the AG Zoning District will be allowed as underlying
district with the S-1 District.
         (c)   On the following lakes all shoreland area surrounding the lake
is designated as S-1. The county will conduct further studies, as resources
become available, to determine the need to refine and extend the S-1 District
to other areas.
 
Lake       ID
Beaver Dam 860296
Malardi    860112
Pelican    860031
Rice       860002
 
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those listed as permitted
in the underlying zoning district; except that, no wetlands shall be drained to
facilitate cultivation of shoreland areas within specified distances of lakes
or streams depending upon topography.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses customarily incident to the
permitted uses.
      (4)   Conditional and interim uses. Conditional and interim uses in the
underlying zoning district shall not be allowed in the S-1 District. Only those
conditional or interim uses listed below may be allowed:
         (a)   Conditional uses.
            1.   All approved aerial or underground utility line crossings such
as electrical, telephone, telegraph or gas lines which cannot be reasonably
located in other than a special protection district;
            2.   Non-residential structures used solely in conjunction with
raising wild animals or fish; provided, the structures are of a design approved
by the Planning Commission as being compatible with other general allowable
uses of the district;
            3.   New agricultural feedlots; and
            4.   Development of parks and historic sites;
         (b)   Interim uses.
            1.   Mining, sand and gravel extraction; and
            2.   Other uses of the same general character as permitted uses;
provided, they comply with the statewide standards for management of shoreland
areas.
      (5)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking, sewage
disposal and the like are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
   (G)   Residential-Recreational Shorelands District (S-2).
      (1)   Purpose. The intent of the S-2 Residential-Recreational Shorelands
District is to preserve areas which have natural characteristics suitable for
both passive and active recreational usage and to manage areas suitable for
residential development of varying types including permanent and seasonal
housing. The S-2 Residential-Recreational Shorelands District shall be an
overlay district. Standards in the S-2 District shall apply in addition to
those in the underlying district. In the case of a conflict, the stricter
standard shall apply. Only the AG, A/R, R-1, R-2 and R-2(a) Districts may be
allowed as underlying districts with the S-2 District.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those listed as permitted
in the underlying zoning district.
      (3)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Private garages;
         (b)   One water oriented accessory structure per lot;
         (c)   Park structures including shelter, toilets, storage buildings,
garages, observation towers and caretakers living quarters; and
         (d)   Signs, as regulated in §
155.097 of this chapter.
      (4)   Interim uses. In addition to the interim uses listed below, those
conditional and interim uses listed in the underlying zoning district may be
considered in the S-2 District. However, the Planning Commission shall give
special consideration to conditional and interim use permits in shoreland
areas, in addition to the review specified in §
155.029 and §
155.031 of this chapter. The Planning Commission may deny a conditional or
interim use permit in the shoreland district if the Commission finds that the
use could have a detrimental effect on the lake or stream or that the proposed
use is not suited to a shoreland area.
         (a)   Golf clubhouses, country club, public swimming pool, private
swimming pools serving more than one family;
         (b)   Riding academies, stables;
         (c)   Organized group camps; and
         (d)   Home occupations.
      (5)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking, sewage
disposal and the like shall be set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
   (H)   Commercial-Recreational Shoreland District (S-3).
      (1)   Purpose. The intent of the S-3 Commercial-Recreational Shorelands
District is to provide suitable locations for, and to encourage the development
of, commercial recreation facilities in those areas of the county which benefit
the recreational needs of both residents and tourists and restrict incompatible
commercial and industrial uses. S-3 Commercial-Recreational Shoreland District
shall not be an overlay district, but shall be an exclusive district when used.
It shall be the only district where commercial uses are allowed in the
shoreland areas. Such uses shall be limited to those listed below. Performance
standards shall be those listed in division (D) above and as otherwise
applicable in this chapter. If any standards contained with Minn. Rules, parts
6120.2500 or 6120.3800 are more restrictive than this chapter the stricter
standards shall apply.
      (2)   Permitted uses. None.
      (3)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Resort facilities to include lodges, guest houses and cabins;
         (b)   Taverns where the main function is servicing a resort or
recreational development;
         (c)   Restaurants where the main function is servicing a resort or
recreational development;
         (d)   Golf courses and clubhouses;
         (e)   Indoor theaters;
         (f)   Sporting goods, establishments, outfitters and suppliers, bait
shops and rental goods establishments;
         (g)   Ski areas and lodges;
         (h)   Single-family detached dwellings for personnel directly
connected with the operating of resort or recreation facilities only, as
regulated in S-2 Residential-Recreational Shorelands District;
         (i)   Motels and auto courts;
         (j)   Yacht slips, service and storage marinas, harbor and docking
facilities subject also to all approved regulations and ordinances of
governmental agencies for the same;
         (k)   Recreational trailer parks and commercial camping facilities for
short duration uses, subject to all requirements of this division (H);
         (l)   Nature trails, snowmobile trails, ski trails and similar
facilities;
         (m)   Other commercial and industrial uses included in the B-1, B-2 or
I-1 Districts, only if the use is to utilize an existing building located in
the shoreland area which is not suited to being used as an otherwise permitted,
interim or conditional use. The Planning Commission must determine that the
proposed use will not have an adverse impact on the lake or stream involved;
         (n)   Solar energy farms;
         (o)   Solar energy systems over ten kilowatts up to 100 kilowatts.
      (4)   Accessory uses to allowed interim or conditional uses.
         (a)   Swimming pools, saunas, outdoor recreational equipment and
structures;
         (b)   Boathouses, docks and piers; and
         (c)   Storage garages.
      (5)   Special district provisions.
         (a)   Any principal structure hereafter erected, constructed, altered,
moved or substantially renovated in any manner which includes in its function
the providing of services, entertainment or lodging for residents or tourists
shall be equipped with indoor toilet and running water (hot and cold)
facilities, and adequate heating system based on floor area and occupancy
criteria, and the facilities for maintaining access routes where operated on a
year-round basis. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
evaluate or have evaluated the adequacy of utilities using standards
established by the Board of County Commissioners and the state’s Department of
Public Health.
         (b)   Standards for commercial, industrial, public and semi-public
uses.
            1.   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public
or semi-public uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public
waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those
uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following standards.
               a.   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks
and other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures.
               b.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
               c.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
                  i.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs
may be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff.
                  ii.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
                  iii.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore
impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate
potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent
direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
            2.   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      (6)   Recreational campground provisions. Recreational campgrounds must
meet the following requirements as well as any additional requirements set
forth in the statewide standards for the management of shoreland areas.
         (a)   Definition. A RECREATIONAL CAMP shall constitute any area used
on a daily, nightly or weekly basis for the accommodation of three or more
occupied tents or travel trailers whether privately or publicly owned; and
whether use of such accommodation is granted free of charge or for
compensation.
         (b)   Licensing. Every person, organization or municipality
establishing or having control of a recreational camping area shall obtain all
necessary licenses and permits required by the state and the state’s Health
Department.
         (c)   Caretaker. A responsible attendant or caretaker shall be in
charge of every recreational camping area at all times and the duties of said
attendant or caretaker shall be to maintain records of the park, keep the
facilities and the equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The
caretaker or attendant shall be the owner or operator of the camping area, or
his or her appointed representative.
         (d)   Recreational camping area location. No recreational camping area
shall be located that the drainage from the park or camp area will endanger any
water supply. No waste water from recreational camping vehicles shall be
deposited on the surface of the ground.
         (e)   Recreational camping area spacing. A site size appropriate to
meet all spacing requirements shall be provided for each recreational camping
vehicle or tent in camping areas. The Planning Commission shall determine the
location, density, and spacing of recreational camping vehicles, tents, primary
and accessory structures whether permanent or temporary based upon water supply
and waste disposal facilities, topography, drainage and other locational and
natural characteristics of the site. Any accessory structure such as attached
awnings, carports or individual storage facilities shall, for the purposes of
the setbacks and separation requirements, be considered to be part of the
recreational camping vehicle, tent or other structure.
         (f)   Density. At least 50% of the total project area must be
preserved as open space as defined in the state standards for shoreland
management areas.
         (g)   Water supply. Facilities for water supply and waste disposal
must meet the minimum requirements of the state’s Health Department and any
other state laws or regulations and the county standards for sewage treatment.
         (h)   Garbage and refuse disposal. All garbage and refuse shall be
stored and disposed of in a manner that will not create or tend to create a
nuisance, or provide a breeding place for flies. Garbage and refuse containers
shall be constructed of non-absorbent materials with tight fitting lids. All
containers shall be washed at least once each week and sprayed with effective
insecticides. Garbage or refuse containers shall be supplied for each four camp
sites, and shall be not more than 200 feet from the farthest site. Containers
shall be emptied twice weekly or more often if required.
         (i)   Picnic areas. Picnic areas shall be provided with suitable
toilets, or privies and refuse containers consistent with the usage demands.
Such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of the
state’s Health Department.
         (j)   Swimming areas. Natural swimming areas shall be located only on
lakes and streams which are relatively free from human, animal and industrial
pollution, and where swimming will not endanger the quality of a domestic water
supply. Swimming areas shall be located at least 75 feet (preferably 150 feet)
from boat docks or boat landing slips and shall be roped off by floats and
cables to designate the safe limits of the swimming areas. Artificial swimming
and wading pools shall be constructed in accordance with standards of the
state’s Health Department.
         (k)   Submission of plans.
            1.   No recreational vehicle camp shall be constructed nor shall
any system of plumbing, sewage system, water supply or swimming pool for the
vehicle camp be installed or altered until four plans drawn to scale have been
submitted to and approved by the County Planning Commission and the state’s
Health Department.
            2.   An applicant for a recreational vehicle camping area interim
use permit shall submit a development plan for the proposed park, including the
following:
               a.   The proposed site and existing development;
               b.   Proposed size, location and arrangement of buildings;
               c.   Parking areas and stall arrangements;
               d.   Entrance and exit drives;
               e.   Proposed sewer and water system; and
               f.   Recreation areas.
      (7)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking, sewage
disposal and the like are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 155.058 WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DISTRICT (W).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to protect and preserve the
scenic, recreational, natural and historical values of the Mississippi River in
the county by carefully controlling development of this river corridor
consistent with the state’s Wild and Scenic River Act and Minn. Regulations NR
78-81.
   (B)   Designation of district.
      (1)   In order to preserve and protect the Mississippi River and its
adjacent land which possess scenic, recreational, natural and historical
values, the Mississippi River in the county has been given a recreational river
classification and lands adjacent to the river are hereby designated by land
use districts, the boundaries of which are based upon the Mississippi River
Management Plan, NR 2400.
      (2)    The boundaries of the Mississippi River Recreation Land Use
District is shown on the county’s zoning map which is made part of this
chapter.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Governmental campgrounds;
      (2)   Public accesses, road access type with boat launching facilities;
      (3)   Public accesses and trail access type;
      (4)   Other governmental open space recreational uses;
      (5)   Agricultural uses;
      (6)   Single-family residential uses;
      (7)   Forestry uses;
      (8)   Essential services;
      (9)   Private roads and minor public streets;
      (10)   Signs approved by federal, state or local government which are
necessary for public health and safety and signs indicating areas that are
available or not available for public use; and
      (11)   Government resource management for improving fish and wildlife
habitat; wildlife management areas; nature areas; accessory roads.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Private campgrounds, subject to management plan specifications, NR-
2400;
      (2)   Other private open space recreational uses;
      (3)   Underground mining that does not involve surface excavation in the
land use district;
      (4)   Utility transmission power lines and pipelines;
      (5)   Public roads; and
      (6)   Residential subdivision subject to management plan specification
NR-2400 and the county’s land use plan.
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Lot area regulations.
         (a)   The minimum lot size shall be two acres;
         (b)   Lot width at building line: 200 feet; and
         (c)   Lot width at ordinary high water mark: 200 feet.
      (2)   Setback requirements. (Also apply to tributaries designated in NR
24000.) Building setbacks:
         (a)   From ordinary high water mark: 100 feet;
         (b)   From bluffline: 30 feet;
         (c)   From side yard: 30 feet for principal use and accessory uses
over 800 square feet;
         (d)   Other accessory uses: ten feet;
         (e)   From roads: county or state highway130 feet from centerline;
         (f)   Township or other road: 65 feet from centerline;
         (g)   From rear yard (non-riparian): 50 feet;
      (3)   General setbacks and standards:
         (a)   On-site sewage treatment system setback from ordinary high water
mark: 75 feet;
         (b)   Maximum structure height: 35;
         (c)   Controlled vegetative cutting area setback from ordinary high
water mark: 100 feet.
         (d)   No structure shall be placed on any slope greater than 13% (13
feet vertical rise in 100 feet horizontal distance) unless such structure can
be screened and sewage disposal system facilities can be installed.
         (e)   No structures shall be placed in any floodway. Structures
proposed within a floodplain shall be consistent with the Floodplain District
of this chapter.
         (f)   For substandard lots of record, setback standards may be reduced
to coincide with the Urban/Rural Transition (R-1) District (§
155.049(F)(7) of this chapter).
      (4)   Substandard lots. Lots of record in the office of the County
Recorder on the effective day of enactment of this chapter which do not meet
the dimensional requirements of this chapter shall be allowed as building
sites, provided: such use is permitted in the land use district(s); the lot was
in separate ownership on the date of enactment of this chapter; all sanitary
and dimensional requirements are complied with, as practicable; and the lot is
at least 20,000 square feet in area.
      (5)   Vegetative cutting.
         (a)   Within the controlled vegetative cutting areas, clear cutting,
except for any authorized public services such as roads and utilities, shall
not be permitted.
         (b)   Selective cutting of trees in excess of four inches in diameter
at breast height shall be permitted providing cutting is spaced in several
cutting operations and a continuous tree cover is maintained.
         (c)   The above cutting provisions shall not be deemed to prevent:
            1.   The removal of diseased or insect infested trees, or of rotten
or damaged trees that present safety hazards; and
            2.   Pruning understory vegetation, shrubs, plants, bushes, grasses
or from harvesting crops or cutting suppressed trees or trees less than four
inches in diameter at breast height.
      (6)   Clear cutting. Clear cutting anywhere in the designated land use
district on the Mississippi River is subject to the following standards and
criteria.
         (a)   Clear cutting shall not be used as a cutting method where soil,
slope or other watershed conditions are determined by the zoning authority to
be fragile and subject to severe erosion and/or sedimentation.
         (b)   Clear cutting shall be conducted only where clear-cut blocks,
patches or strips are, in all cases, shaped and blended with the natural
terrain.
         (c)   The size of clear-cut blocks, patches or strips shall be kept at
the minimum necessary.
         (d)   Where feasible all clear cuts shall be conducted between
September 15 and May 15. If natural regeneration will not result in adequate
vegetative cover, areas in which clear cutting is conducted shall be replanted
to prevent erosion and to maintain the aesthetic quality of the area. Where
feasible, replanting shall be performed in the same spring or the following
spring.
      (7)   Grading, filling, alterations of beds of public waters. Any grading
and filling work done shall require a permit and shall comply with the
following.
         (a)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is not
accessory to a permitted or conditional use shall not be permitted.
         (b)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is accessory
to a permitted or conditional use shall not be conducted without a grading and
filling permit from the zoning authority.
         (c)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is accessory
to permitted or conditional use shall be performed in a manner which minimizes
earthmoving, erosion, tree clearing and the destruction of natural amenities.
         (d)   Grading and filling of the natural topography shall also met the
following standards.
            1.   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a
time as feasible.
            2.   Temporary ground cover such as mulch is used and permanent
ground cover such as sod is planted.
            3.   Methods to prevent erosion and to trap sediment are employed.
            4.   Fill is established to accepted engineering standards.
      (8)   Utility transmission lines. All utility transmission crossings of
land within the Mississippi River land use district(s) shall require a
conditional use permit. The construction of such transmission services shall be
subject to the standards and criteria of the Minn. Regulations NR 79(i)(2).
      (9)   Public roads. In addition to such permits as may be required by
M.S. §§103G.301 through 130G.315, as it may be amended from time to time, a
conditional use permit shall be required for any construction or reconstruction
of new public roads within the Minnesota River land use district(s). Such
construction or reconstruction shall be subject to the standards and criteria
of Minn. Regulations NR 79(j)(2). A conditional use permit is not required for
minor public streets which are streets intended to serve primarily as an access
to abutting properties.
      (10)   Land suitability. No land shall be subdivided which is determined
by the governing body, or the Commissioner, to be unsuitable by reason of
flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formation with severe limitations
for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate
water supply or sewage treatment capabilities or any other feature likely to be
harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the future residents of the
proposed subdivision or the community.
      (11)   Planned cluster development. A planned cluster development may be
allowed subject to the requirements of §
155.059 of this chapter only when the proposed clustering provides a better
means of preserving agricultural land, open space, woods, scenic views,
wetlands and other features of the natural environment than traditional
subdivision development. Except for minimum setbacks and height limits, altered
dimensional standards may be allowed as exceptions to this chapter for planned
cluster developments; provided:
         (a)   Preliminary plans are approved by the Commissioner prior to
their enactment by the governing body.
         (b)   Central sewage facilities are installed which meet the
standards, criteria, rules or regulations of the state’s Department of Health
and the Pollution Control Agency.
         (c)   Open space is preserved. This may be accomplished through the
use of restrictive deed covenants, public dedications, granting of scenic
easements or other methods.
         (d)   There is not more than one centralized boat launching facility
for each cluster.
      (12)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking, sewage
disposal and the like are set forth in §§
155.075 through
155.108 of this chapter.
   (F)   Notification of proposed zoning amendments, variances and inconsistent
plats.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources a copy of any application for a zoning amendment including
proposed changes to district lines, variances and plats which are inconsistent
with the local land use ordinance for certification. A copy of the notice of
any public hearing, or where a public hearing is not required, a copy of the
application for zoning amendment, variances and inconsistent plats shall be
sent so as to be received by the Commissioner at least 30 days prior to such
hearing or meeting to consider such action. The notice of application shall
include a copy of the proposed ordinances or amendment, or a copy of the
proposed inconsistent plat or a description of the requested variances.
      (2)   The county shall notify the Commissioner of its final decision on
the proposed action within ten days of the decision.
      (3)   The action becomes effective when and only when either:
         (a)   The final decision taken by the county has previously received
certification of approval from the Commissioner;
         (b)   The county receives certification of approval after its final
decision;
         (c)   Thirty days have elapsed from the day the Commissioner received
notice of the final decision, and the county has received from the Commissioner
neither certification of approval nor notice of non-approval; or
         (d)   The Commissioner certifies his or her approval within 30 days
after conducting a public hearing.
      (4)   In case the Commissioner gives notice of non-approval of an
ordinance, variance or inconsistent plat, either the applicant or Zoning
Administrator may, within 30 days of said notice, file with the Commissioner a
demand for hearing. If the demand for hearing is not made within 30 days, the
notice of non-approval becomes final.
         (a)   The hearing will be held within 60 days of the demand and after
at least two weeks published notice.
         (b)   The hearing will be conducted in accordance with M.S. §
103G.311, as they may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   The Commissioner shall either certify his or her approval or
disapproval of the proposed action within 30 days of the hearing.
(Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.059 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Planned Unit Development District is: to
encourage flexibility in the design and development of land in order to promote
its appropriate use; to facilitate the adequate and economical provisions of
streets and utilities; and to preserve natural and scenic qualities. The PUD
District shall be an overlay district, however, it shall apply only to specific
projects which have been approved through the procedures outlined herein. If
any standards contained with Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 or 6120.3800 are more
restrictive than this chapter the stricter standards shall apply.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   Three types of PUD projects may be approved, dependent upon the
primary zoning district and the standards outlined below.
         (a)   A standard PUD may include lands within any one, or more than
one, primary zoning district.
         (b)   A rural PUD shall include lands only within the Agricultural/
Residential (A/R) district.
         (c)   A resort conversion PUD shall include only lands which exist as
a resort and lie within the Commercial Recreation Shorelands (S-3) District.
      (2)   Except in the case of a resort conversion, every PUD District must
contain a minimum of 20 acres of contiguous land to be treated as a unified
project.
      (3)   In addition to the general standards for zoning amendments in §
155.028 of this chapter, the Planning Commission may recommend the
establishment of a PUD district only if it finds that the proposal satisfies
the following criteria:
         (a)   The planned unit development is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan of the county;
         (b)   The planned unit development is an effective and unified
treatment of the development possibilities on the project site and the
development plan provides for the preservation of unique natural amenities such
as streams, stream banks, wooded cover, rough terrain and similar areas; and
         (c)   The planned unit development can be planned and developed to
harmonize with any existing or proposed development in the areas surrounding
the project site.
   (C)   Number of units.
      (1)   Standard planned unit development.
         (a)   In the planned unit development, the number of dwelling units
proposed for the entire site shall not exceed the total number permitted under
the density control provisions of the zoning district(s) in which the land is
located. If the planned unit development is in more than one zoning district,
the number of allowable dwelling units must be separately calculated for each
portion of the planned unit development that is in a separate zone, and must
then be combined to determine the number of dwelling units allowable in the
entire planned unit development.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall determine the number of dwelling
units which may be constructed within the planned unit development by dividing
the net acreage of the project area by the required lot area per dwelling unit
which is required in the district which the planned unit development is
located. The net acreage shall be defined as the project area less the land
area dedicated for public streets. Fractional results shall be rounded to the
nearest whole number.
      (2)   Rural planned unit development. For a rural planned unit
development, the number of dwelling units shall be determined by multiplying
the gross acreage of the project area by six-fortieths. Fractional results
shall be rounded to the nearest whole number. Multi-family structures shall not
be permitted in a rural PUD.
      (3)   Resort conversion planned unit development. For a resort conversion
planned unit development, the number of dwelling units shall not exceed the
number of dwellings or rental units (excluding campsites) which legally exist
at the resort prior to the conversion. The conversion must also comply with all
state Department of Natural Resource standards and provide proof of ability to
meet all state and local sewage treatment standards.
   (D)   Coordination with Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (1)   It is the intent of this chapter that subdivision review under Ch.
154 of this code of ordinances be carried out simultaneously with the review of
a planned development under this chapter of the zoning ordinance. All PUD
proposals must be platted.
      (2)   The plans required under this section must be submitted in a form
which will satisfy the requirements of Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances for
the preliminary and final plats required under those regulations.
   (E)   Variances. It is the intent of this section, planned unit development,
to provide a means to allow variances from the provisions of this chapter
including lot sizes, setbacks, height and similar regulations
not including parking requirements, off-street loading, necessary landscaping
and the like. Variances may be granted for the planned unit developments under
the following conditions.
      (1)   Certain regulations contained in this chapter may not realistically
apply to the proposed development due to its unique nature.
      (2)   The variances, if granted, would be fully consistent with the
general intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (3)   The planned unit development would produce development of equal or
superior quality to that which would result from strict adherence to the
provision of this chapter.
      (4)   The variances will not constitute a threat to the property values,
safety, health and general welfare of the owners or occupants of adjacent or
nearby land, nor be detrimental to the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the county.
      (5)   It shall be determined that the variances are required for a
reasonable and practical physical development according to a comprehensive
development plan and are not required solely on the basis of financial
considerations.
      (6)   Except in the case of a resort conversion, or when a community
water and sewer system will be provided, lot sizes shall meet or exceed the
minimum standards set forth for the Urban/Rural Transition (R-1) Zone.
   (F)   Procedure; establishment of PUD.
      (1)   General procedures for the establishment of a PUD district shall be
the same as for rezoning, as outlined in §
155.028 of this chapter. In addition, applications for the establishment of a
PUD District shall be accompanied by an outline development plan.
      (2)   An outline development plan must include both maps and written
statements, and must show enough of the area surrounding the proposed planned
unit development to demonstrate the relationship of the planned unit
development to adjoining uses.
      (3)   The maps which are part of the outline development plan may be in
general schematic form, and must contain the following information:
         (a)   The general topographic character of the land;
         (b)   Existing and proposed land uses and the approximate location of
buildings, lots, utilities and unique development features of the site;
         (c)   The location of existing and proposed roads; and
         (d)   Public uses, including schools, parks, playgrounds and other
open spaces.
      (4)   The written statement to accompany the outline development plan
must contain the following information:
         (a)   An explanation of the character of the planned development and
the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the planned
development regulations;
         (b)   A statement of the present ownership of all of the land included
within the planned development;
         (c)   A general indication of the expected schedule of development
including progressive phasing and time schedules;
         (d)   A statement of preliminary approval from the township board,
which indicates that any proposed roads will be accepted as township roads; and
         (e)   Proposed uses and ownership of undeveloped land and common open
space.
      (5)   After review by the Planning Commission, the outline development
plan shall be submitted to the County Board for its final decision on
establishment of the PUD District.
   (G)   Procedure; preliminary development plan approval.
      (1)   General procedures for the approval of a preliminary development
plan shall be the same as for the approval of a conditional use permit for a
preliminary plat, as outlined in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances and §
155.029 of this chapter. If more than 90 days elapses between the establishment
of the PUD District and approval of a preliminary development plan, the
Planning Commission may order renotification of nearby property owners before
final approval.
      (2)   The preliminary development plan must include all of the following
information, in addition to that required for a preliminary plat:
         (a)   Proposed uses and location of common open space and restricted
lands;
         (b)   Areas proposed to be conveyed, dedicated or reserved for parks,
parkways, playgrounds, public buildings and similar public and semi-public
uses;
         (c)   A plot plan for each building site and common open area, showing
the approximate location of all buildings, structures and improvements;
         (d)   Elevation and perspective drawings for all proposed structures
and improvements except single-family residences and their accessory buildings;
         (e)   A development schedule indicating:
            1.   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
            2.   The stages in which the project will be built and the
approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
            3.   The approximate dates when the development of each of the
stages in the development will be completed; and
            4.   The area and location of common open space that will be
provided at each stage.
         (f)   Agreements, provisions or covenants which govern the use,
maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit development and any of
its common open areas or restricted lands; and
         (g)   Any other plans or studies determined necessary by the Planning
Commission to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   In its final approval of a preliminary development plan, the
Planning Commission may include conditions which must be met before approval of
a final development plan, and also conditions which are permanent. Only the
permanent conditions need be recorded.
   (H)   Final development plan.
      (1)   A final development plan shall be submitted which meets the same
requirements as a final plat in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   If no final development plan is submitted within six months of
approval of the preliminary development plan, the Planning Commission may
revoke approval of the preliminary development plan.
      (3)   The final development plan shall comply in all respects with the
approved preliminary development plan. Changes in the approved preliminary
development plan shall require an amended conditional use permit.
      (4)   Roads and other improvements, including improvements to common open
spaces, must be completed prior to recording the final development plan, unless
adequate financial guarantees are provided the county in accord with
Chapter 154 of this Code of Ordinances.
      (5)   After recording the final development plan, no alterations of the
approved preliminary development plan may be made by the developer unless
approved by the Planning Commission. Minor changes in the siting of single-
family dwellings and accessory structures may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (I)   Common open space.
      (1)   Except for the establishment of restricted lands in a rural planned
unit development, as provided in division (J) below, all lands shown on the
preliminary development plan as common open space must be conveyed under one of
the following options. Under no circumstances may lands used to calculate the
number of units be transferred or used for any purpose not included in the
approved preliminary development plan.
         (a)   It may be conveyed to a public agency which will agree to
maintain the common open space and any buildings, structures or improvements
which have been placed on it.
         (b)   It may be conveyed to trustees provided in an indenture
establishing an association or similar organization for the maintenance of the
planned development. The common open space must be conveyed to the trustees
subject to covenants to be approved by the Planning Commission which restrict
the open space to the uses specified on the preliminary development plan, and
which provide for the maintenance of the common open space in a manner which
assures its continuing use for its intended purpose.
      (2)   The following standards shall be used by the Planning Commission to
review the provision of common open spaces.
         (a)   The location, shape, size and character of the common open space
must be suitable for the planned development.
         (b)   Common open space must be used for amenity or recreational
purposes. The uses authorized for the common open space must be appropriate to
the scale and character of the planned unit development, considering its size,
density, expected population, topography and the number and type of dwellings
to be provided.
         (c)   Common open space must be suitably improved for its intended
use, but common space containing natural features worthy of preservation may be
left unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements which are permitted
in the common open space must be appropriate to the uses which are authorized
for the common open space and must conserve and enhance the amenities of the
common open space having regard to its topography and unimproved condition.
         (d)   The development schedule which is part of the preliminary
development plan must coordinate the improvement of the common open space, the
construction of buildings, structures and improvements in the common open
space, and the construction of residential dwellings in the planned unit
development.
         (e)    If the preliminary development plan provides for buildings,
structures or improvements in the common open space, the developer must provide
a bond or other adequate assurance that the buildings, structures and
improvements will be completed.
   (J)   Restricted lands.
      (1)   In general, the creation of restricted lands shall be for the
purpose of preserving productive agricultural land while providing for the
clustering of residential sites on non-productive land. Such use will only be
permitted within a rural PUD.
      (2)   (a)   Unlike common open space, restricted lands used to calculate
the number of units may be transferred and/or used for private purposes
unrelated to the PUD.
         (b)   However, restricted lands may not be developed for residential
or commercial uses, but shall be strictly limited to agricultural or open space
uses.
         (c)   Reasonable restrictions upon such lands shall be stated by the
Planning Commission at the time of preliminary development plan approval and
said restrictions shall be recorded with the final development plan.
      (3)   Alteration or removal of the conditions and restrictions on
restricted lands may only be enabled through rezoning the property. Because
said restrictions are an integral part of the rural PUD approval, said rezoning
may only take place after the Planning Commission and the County Board make the
following findings.
         (a)   The land use plan for the area has been changed in a manner
which allows for more intensive development.
         (b)   The character of the area has substantially changed in a manner
which invalidates the reasons for original establishment of the rural PUD.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 155.075 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The performance standards established in this subchapter are designed
to encourage a high standard of development by providing assurance that
neighboring land uses will be compatible. The performance standards are
designed to prevent and eliminate those conditions that cause blight. All
future development in all districts shall be required to meet these standards.
The standards shall also apply to existing development where so stated. The
County Board shall be responsible for enforcing the standards.
   (B)   (1)   Before any building permit is approved, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to the performance
standards. The developer or land owners shall supply data necessary to
demonstrate such conformance.
      (2)   Such data may include description of equipment to be used, hours of
operation, method of refuse disposal and type and location of exterior storage.
§ 155.076 EXTERIOR STORAGE.
   (A)   In residential districts, all materials and equipment shall be stored
within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties, except for the following: laundry drying and recreational
equipment; construction and landscaping materials and equipment currently
(within a period of 36 hours) being used on the premises; agricultural
equipment and materials if these are used or intended for use on the premises;
off-street parking of licensed and operable passenger automobiles and pick-up
trucks. Personal boats and unoccupied trailers, less than 20 feet in length and
a licensed recreational vehicle less than 40 feet in length, are permissible if
stored in the rear yard more than ten feet from the property line. Existing
uses shall comply with this provision within 12 months following enactment of
this chapter.
   (B)   In all districts, the County Board may require an interim use permit
for any exterior storage if it is demonstrated that such storage is a hazard to
the public health, safety, convenience, morals or has a depreciating effect
upon nearby property values, or impairs scenic views, or constitutes threat to
living amenities.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.077 REFUSE.
   (A)   In all districts, all waste material, debris, refuse or garbage shall
be kept in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container
designed for such purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for
keeping such land free of refuse. Existing uses shall comply with this
provision within six months following enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided below or specifically permitted, outdoor storage of
inoperative or unlicensed vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles, farm
implements and other machinery or vehicle parts shall be considered refuse. One
unlicensed or inoperative passenger vehicle or truck may be parked within
setbacks in the rear yard of any residential district or any lot ten acres or
less in size for a period not to exceed 30 days; INOPERATIVE shall mean
incapable of movement under their own power and in need of repairs or junk
yard. In the Agricultural District, on lots larger than ten acres in size,
exterior storage of not more than two unlicensed or inoperable vehicles or
machines shall be permitted provided no repair or dismantling business takes
place and the storage area is completely screened and not visible from any
other property or public road at all times of the year. All exterior storage
not included as a permitted accessory use, a permitted use or included as part
of a conditional or interim use permit, or otherwise permitted by provisions of
this chapter shall be considered as refuse.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.078 SCREENING AND FENCES.
   (A)   Screening shall be required in residential zones where:
      (1)   Any off-street parking area contains more than four parking spaces
and is within 30 feet of an adjoining residential zone; and
      (2)   The driveway to a parking area of more than six parking spaces is
within 15 feet of an adjoining residential use or zone.
   (B)   Where any business (structure, parking or storage) is adjacent to
property zoned or developed for residential use, that business or industry
shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential property.
Screening shall also be provided where a business, parking lot or industry is
across the street from a residential zone, but not on that side of a business
or industry considered to be the front (as determined by the Zoning
Administrator).
   (C)   All exterior storage shall be screened. The exceptions are:
      (1)   Merchandise being displayed for sale;
      (2)   Materials and equipment presently being used for construction on
the premises; and
      (3)   Merchandise located on service station pump islands.
   (D)   (1)   The screening required in this section may consist of a fence,
trees, shrubs and berms not less than five feet high, but shall not extend
within 15 feet of any street or driveway.
      (2)   The screening shall be placed along property lines or in case of
screening along a street, 15 feet from the street right-of-way with landscaping
between the screening and pavement. The screening shall not block direction
vision.
      (3)   Planting of a type approved by the Planning Commission may also be
required in addition to or in lieu of fencing.
   (E)   Fences which impede visual sight lines in anyway shall not encroach
closer to any shoreline than the principal building setback. Electrified or
barbed fences shall be prohibited in residential districts. Electrified fences
used as an accessory to permitted agricultural uses are allowed. Swimming pools
with a capacity exceeding 5,000 gallons shall be surrounded by a fence at least
four feet in height with a self-latching gate or a power safety cover complying
with ASTM F 1346.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2015)
§ 155.079 LANDSCAPING MAINTENANCE.
   In all districts, all structures requiring landscaping and fences shall be
maintained so as not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety
conditions.
§ 155.080 GLARE.
   In all districts, any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area, sign or other structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from
any adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-
reflected glare, where from floodlights or from high temperature processes such
as combustion or welding shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The
source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to
light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted
in view of adjacent property or public right-of-way. Any light or combination
of lights which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one foot candle
(meter reading) as measured from the centerline of said street. Any light or
combination of lights which cast light on residential property shall not exceed
0.4 foot candles (meter reading) as measured from said property.
§ 155.081 PARKING.
   (A)   Surfacing and drainage. Off-street parking areas shall be improved
with a durable and dustless surface which may include an aggregate material or
similar treatment. Such areas shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of
all surface water without damage to adjoining property. These requirements
shall also apply to open sales lots. The Planning Commission may require the
use of asphalt, concrete or other aggregate material as part of a conditional
or interim use permit.
   (B)   Location. All accessory off-street parking facilities required herein
shall be located as follows:
      (1)   Spaces accessory to one- and two-family dwellings on the same lot
as the principal use served;
      (2)   Spaces accessory to multiple-family dwellings on the same lot as
the principle use served or within 200 feet of the main entrance to the
principal building served;
      (3)   Spaces accessory to uses located in a business, within 800 feet of
a main entrance to the principal building served;
      (4)   There shall be no off-street parking space within five feet of any
street right-of-way; and
      (5)   No off-street open parking area containing more than four parking
spaces shall be located closer than five feet from an adjacent lot zoned or
used for residential purposes.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   General. Access drives may be placed adjacent to property lines;
except that, drives consisting of crushed rock or other non-finished surfacing
shall be no closer than one foot to any side or rear lot line.
      (2)   Parking spaces. Each parking space shall not be less than nine feet
wide and 20 feet in length exclusive of an adequately designed system of access
drives.
      (3)   Control of off-street parking facilities. When required accessory
off-street parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot in which
the principal use served is located, they shall be in the same ownership or
control, either by deed or long-term lease, as the property occupied by such
principal use, and the owner of the principal use shall file a recordable
document with the county requiring the owner and his or her heirs and assigns
to maintain the required number of off-street spaces during the existence of
said principal use.
      (4)   Use of parking area. Required off-street parking space in any
district shall not be utilized for open storage of goods or for the storage of
vehicles which are inoperable or for sale or for rent.
   (D)   Design and maintenance of off-street parking areas.
      (1)   General. Parking areas shall be designed so as to provide adequate
means of access to a public alley or street. Such driveway access shall not
exceed 22 feet in width and shall be so located as to cause the least
interference with traffic movement.
      (2)   Signs. No signs shall be located in any parking area, except as
necessary for orderly operation of traffic movement and such signs shall not be
a part of the permitted advertising space.
      (3)   Curbing and landscaping. All open off-street parking areas designed
to have head-in parking along the property line shall provide a bumper curb not
less than three feet from the side property line or a guard of normal bumper
height not less than one foot from the side property line. When said area is
for six spaces or more, a curb or fence not over five feet in height shall be
erected along the front yard setback line and grass or planting shall occupy
the space between the sidewalk and curb or fence.
      (4)   Parking space for six or more cars. When a required off-street
parking space for six cars or more is located adjacent to a Residential
District, a fence of adequate design, not over five feet in height, nor less
than four feet in height, shall be erected along the Residential District
property line.
      (5)   Maintenance of off-street parking space. It shall be the joint and
several responsibility of the operator and owner of the principal use, uses
and/or building to maintain, in a neat and adequate manner, the parking space,
access ways, landscaping and required fences.
      (6)   Determination of areas. A parking space shall not be less than 300
square feet per vehicle of standing and maneuvering area.
   (E)   Other parking in residential areas. Parking in residential areas (off-
street and on-street) shall be limited to the use of the residents of those
homes. Except for short-term parking (six hours or less) and guest parking, the
number of vehicles parked on or in front of a residential lot shall not exceed
double the number of persons residing on the premises and having automobile
driver’s licenses.
   (F)   Off-street spaces required. (One space equals 300 square feet.)
                                    At least 2 off-street parking spaces,
Automobile service station          plus 4 off-street parking spaces for each
                                    service stall
                                    At least 5 parking spaces for each alley,
Bowling alley                       plus additional spaces as may be required
                                    herein related uses such as restaurant,
                                    plus 1 additional space for each employee
Business and professional offices   1 space for each 400 square feet of gross
                                    floor space
Churches, theaters, auditoriums and 1 space for each 3 seats or for each 5
other places of assembly            feet of pew length; based upon maximum
                                    design capacity.
                                    At least 1 parking space for each 15
Drive-in food                       establishment square feet of gross floor
                                    space in building allocated to drive-in
                                    operation
                                    At least 1 parking space for each 3
                                    hospital beds, plus 1 space for each 4
Hospital                            employees, other than doctors, plus 1
                                    parking space for each resident and
                                    regular staff doctor
Hotel or motel                      1 space per rental unit, plus 1 space per
                                    employee
Medical and dental clinics          5 spaces per doctor or dentist, plus 1
                                    space for each employee
Multiple dwellings                  2 spaces per dwelling unit
One- and two-family residences      2 spaces per dwelling unit
Restaurants, cafés, bars, taverns, At least 1 space for each 3 seats based
nightclubs                          on capacity designs
Retail store                        At least 1 off-street parking space for
                                    each 150 square feet of gross floor area
                                    At least 1 parking space for each 4
Schools                             students based on design capacity, plus 1
                                    additional space for each classroom
                                    As determined by the governing body
Uses not specifically noted         following review by the Planning
                                    Commission
 
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 19-6, passed 11-19-2019; Ord. 23-1, passed
5-2-2023)
§ 155.082 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   The traffic generated by any use shall be channelized and controlled
in a manner that will avoid:
      (1)   Congestion on the public streets;
      (2)   Traffic hazards; and
      (3)   Excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly truck
traffic.
   (B)   Internal traffic shall be so regulated as to ensure its safe and
orderly flow. Traffic into and out of business areas shall in all cases be
forward moving with no backing into streets. On corner lots, (including rural
areas) no structures shall be placed or allowed to grow in such a manner as
materially to impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets to a distance such that
a clear line of vision is possible of the intersecting street from a distance
of 50 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
§ 155.083 TREES AND WOODLAND PRESERVATION.
   (A)   General. The following restrictions shall apply to all residential
development occurring in a wooded area.
      (1)   Structures shall be located in such a manner that the maximum
number of trees shall be preserved.
      (2)   Prior to the granting of a building permit, it shall be the duty of
the person seeking the permit to demonstrate that there are no feasible or
prudent alternatives to the cutting of trees on the site and that if trees are
cut, he or she will restore the density of trees to that which existed before
development, but in no case shall he be compelled to raise the density above in
ten trees per acre.
      (3)   Forestation, reforestation or landscaping shall utilize a variety
of tree species and shall not utilize any species presently under disease
epidemic. Species planted shall be hardy under local conditions and compatible
with the local landscape.
      (4)   Development including grading and contouring shall take place in
such a manner that the root zone aeration stability of existing trees shall not
be affected and shall provide existing trees with a watering equal to one-half
the crown area.
   (B)   Shoreland areas. The removal of natural vegetation shall be restricted
to prevent erosion into public waters, to consume nutrients in the soil, and to
preserve shoreland aesthetics. Clear-cutting shall be prohibited in the shore
and bluff impact zones.
   (C)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and associated
reforestation or conversion of forested use to a non-forested use must be
conducted consistent with the following standards:
      (1)   Timber harvesting and associated reforestation must be conducted
consistent with the provisions of the state’s Non-Point Source Pollution
Assessment-Forestry and the provisions of Water Quality in Forest Management
Best Management Practices in Minnesota.
      (2)   When not part of a conditional or interim use permit otherwise
required, forest land conversion to another use require issuance of an interim
use permit and adherence to the following standards:
         (a)   Shore and bluff impact zones must not be intensively cleared of
vegetation; and
         (b)   An erosion and sediment control plan is developed and approved
by the local soil and water conservation district before issuance of an interim
use permit for the conversion.
      (3)   Use of fertilizer, pesticides or animal wastes within shorelands
must be done in such a way as to minimize impact on the shore impact zone or
public water by proper application or use of earth or vegetation.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.084 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   The following standards shall apply to all development and activity that
necessitates the grading, stripping, cutting, filling or exposure of soils.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
      (2)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of development. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
      (3)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
      (4)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational as quickly
as possible during construction.
      (5)   Whenever possible, natural vegetation shall be retained and
protected.
      (6)   If it is necessary to remove top soil from a site being graded or
excavated, sufficient top soil shall be hauled back upon completion of the
activity to cover the area to a depth of four inches. The top soils hauled in
and spread on the disturbed area shall be of a quality at least equal to the
top soil removed from the site.
      (7)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest
feasible period of time. No exposure shall be planned to exceed 60 days. Said
time period shall be extended only if the Planning Department is satisfied that
adequate measures have been established and will remain in place.
      (8)   The natural drainage system shall be used as far as is feasible for
the storage and flow of runoff. Storm water drainage shall be discharged to
marshlands, swamps, retention basins or other treatment facilities. Diversion
of storm water to marshlands or swamps shall be considered for existing or
planned surface drainage. Marshlands and swamps used for storm water shall
provide for natural or artificial water level control. Temporary storage areas
or retention basins scattered throughout developed areas shall be encouraged to
reduce peak flows, erosion damage and construction costs.
   (B)   Exposed slopes. The following control measures shall be taken to
control erosion during construction.
      (1)   No exposed slope should be steeper in grade than five feet
horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (2)   Exposed slopes steeper in grade than ten feet horizontal to one
foot vertical should be contour plowed to minimize direct runoff of water.
      (3)   At the foot of each exposed slope, a channel and berm should be
constructed to control runoff. The channelized water should be diverted to a
sedimentation basin (debris basin, silt basin or silt trap) before being
allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
      (4)   Along the top of each exposed slope, a berm should be constructed
to prevent runoff from flowing over the edge of the slope. Where runoff
collecting behind said berm cannot be diverted elsewhere and must be directed
down the slope, appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent erosion. Such
measures should consist of either an asphalt paved flow apron and drop chute
laid down the slope or a flexible slope drain. At the base of the slope drain
or flow apron, a gravel energy dissipator should be installed to prevent
erosion at the discharge end.
      (5)   Exposed slopes shall be protected by whatever means will
effectively prevent erosion considering the degree of slope, soils material,
and expected length of exposure. Slope protection shall consist of mulch,
sheets of plastic, burlap or jute netting, sod blankets, fast growing grasses
or temporary seedings of annual grasses. Mulch consists of hay, straw, wood
chips, corn stalks, bark or other protective material. Mulch should be anchored
to slopes with liquid asphalt, stakes and netting or should be worked into the
soil to provide additional slope stability.
      (6)   Control measures, other than those specifically stated above, may
be used in place of the above measures if it can be demonstrated that they will
as effectively protect exposed slopes.
   (C)   Design standards. When constructed facilities are used for storm water
management, they must be designed and installed consistent with the field
office technical guide of the local soil and water conservation districts.
      (1)   Waterways.
         (a)   The use of the natural above ground drainage system to dispose
of runoff should be strongly encouraged. Storm sewers should only be used where
it can be demonstrated that the use of the above ground natural drainage system
will not adequately dispose of runoff. Above ground runoff disposal waterways
may be constructed to augment the natural drainage system. To the extent
possible, the natural and constructed waterways should be coordinated with an
open space trail system.
         (b)   The widths of a constructed waterway shall be sufficiently large
to adequately channel runoff from a ten-inch storm. Adequacy shall be
determined by the expected runoff when full development of the drainage area is
reached.
         (c)   No fences or structures shall be constructed across the waterway
that will reduce or restrict the flow of water.
         (d)   The banks of the waterway shall be protected with a permanent
turf vegetation.
         (e)   The banks of the waterway shall not exceed five feet horizontal
to one foot vertical in gradient.
         (f)   The gradient of the waterway bed should not exceed a grade that
will result in a velocity that will cause erosion of the banks of the waterway.
         (g)   The bed to the waterway shall be protected with turf, sod or
concrete. If turf or sod will not function properly, rip rap may be used. Rip
rap shall consist of quarried limestone, fieldstone (if random rip rap is used)
or construction materials; provided, said construction materials are limited to
asphalt cement and concrete. The rip rap shall be no smaller than two inches
square nor no larger than two feet square. Construction materials shall be used
only in those areas where the waterway is not used as part of a recreation
trail system.
         (h)   If the flow velocity in the waterway is such that erosion of the
turf side-wall will occur and said velocity cannot be decreased via velocity
control structures, then other materials may replace turf on the sidewalls.
Either gravel or rip rap would be allowed to prevent erosion at these points.
      (2)   Water velocity.
         (a)   The flow velocity of runoff in waterways shall be controlled to
a velocity that will minimize erosion of the waterway.
         (b)   Flow velocity should be controlled through the installation of
diversions, berms, slope drains and other similarly effective velocity control
structures.
      (3)   Sediment control.
         (a)   To prevent sedimentation of waterways, pervious and impervious
sediment traps and other sediment control structures shall be incorporated
throughout the contributing watershed.
         (b)   Temporary pervious sediment traps could consist of a
construction of bales of hay with a low spillway embankment section of sand and
gravel that permits a slow movement of water while filtering sediment. Such
structures should serve as temporary sediment control features during the
construction stage of a development.
         (c)   Permanent impervious sediment control structures consist of
sediment basins (debris basins, desilting basins or silt traps) and shall be
utilized to remove sediment from runoff prior to its disposal in any permanent
body of water.
         (d)   New constructed storm water outfalls to public waters must
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
      (4)   Maintenance of erosion control system.
         (a)   The erosion and velocity control structures shall be maintained
in a condition that will ensure continuous functioning according to the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Sediment basins shall be maintained as the need occurs to ensure
continuous desilting action.
         (c)   The areas utilized for runoff waterways and sediment basins
shall not be allowed to exist in an unsightly condition. The banks of the
sediment basins and waterways shall be landscaped.
         (d)   Prior to the approval of any plat for development, the developer
shall make provision for continued maintenance on the erosion and sediment
control system.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.085 EXPLOSIVES.
   No activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of materials
or products such as TNT or dynamite which could decompose by detonation shall
be permitted, except as are specifically licensed by the County Board.
§ 155.086 GUEST HOUSES.
   (A)   Guest houses, for purpose of this chapter, shall be an accessory
building detached from the principal building where accommodations for sleeping
are provided, but no kitchen facility provision is made. The use is for persons
visiting the occupants of this principal building. Guest houses shall be
permitted in all Residential and Agricultural Districts and shall conform to
all setback requirements for the principal building. Guest houses shall be
located on lots at least 20,000 square feet in area, and no guest house shall
be used as rental property.
   (B)   Only one guest house shall be permitted per parcel of land; providing
that, adequate sanitary facilities can be provided and that no guest house
shall exceed 750 square feet in total floor area. The Board of Adjustment shall
review requests for guest houses on lots with no principal dwelling.
(Ord. 18-2, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.087 DRIVE-IN BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to drive-in businesses in all districts.
   (A)   Approved drainage system. The entire area of any drive-in business
shall have a drainage system approved by the County Engineer.
   (B)   Surfaced to control dust and drainage. The entire developed area,
other than that occupied by structures or planting, shall be surfaced with a
hard surface material which will control dust and drainage.
   (C)   Fencing and screening. A fence or screen of acceptable design, not
over six feet in height or less than four feet, shall be constructed along the
property line abutting a Residential District and such fence or screen shall be
adequately maintained. The fence shall not be required in front of the setback
line.
   (D)   General.
      (1)   Any drive-in business serving food or beverages shall also provide,
in addition to vehicular service areas, in-door food and beverage service
seating area sufficient to accommodate at least 24 customers.
      (2)   The hours of operation shall be set forth as a condition of the
interim use permit for drive-in business.
      (3)   Each drive-in business serving food may have outside seating.
      (4)   Each food or beverage drive-in business shall place refuse
receptacles at all exits as well as one refuse receptacle per ten vehicle
parking spaces within the parking area.
   (E)   Locations.
      (1)   No drive-in business shall be located within 400 feet of a public
or parochial school, church, public recreation area or any residential
district.
      (2)   No drive-in business shall be located such that it may increase
traffic volumes on nearby residential streets.
      (3)   No drive-in shall be located on any street other than one
designated as a thoroughfare or business service road.
   (F)   Site plan.
      (1)   The site plan shall clearly indicate suitable storage containers
for all waste material. All commercial refuse containers shall be screened.
      (2)   A landscaping plan shall be included and shall set forth complete
specifications for plant materials and other features.
      (3)   Adequate area shall be designated for snow storage such that clear
visibility shall be maintained from the property at any public street.
      (4)   The design of any structure shall be compatible with other
structures in the surrounding area.
      (5)   Electronic devices such as loudspeakers, automobile service order
devices, drive-in theater car speakers and similar instruments shall not be
located within 400 feet from any residentially zoned or used property, nor
within 200 feet of any adjacent lot regardless of use or zoning district.
      (6)   No service shall be rendered, deliveries made or sales conducted
within the required front yard; customers served in vehicles shall be parked to
the sides and/or rear of the principal structure.
      (7)   No permanent or temporary signs visible from the public street
shall be erected without specific approval in the permit.
      (8)   No plan shall be approved which will in any way constitute a hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian circulation. No access drive shall be within 50 feet
of intersecting street curb lines.
   (G)   Fence. In the case of a drive-in theater, a solid fence not less than
eight feet in height and extending at least to within two feet of the ground
shall be constructed around the property.
   (H)   Lighting. The lighting shall be designed so as to have no direct
source of light visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent land in
residential use.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.088 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance characteristics (non-agricultural uses). No noise, odors,
vibration, smoke, air pollution, liquid or solid wastes, heat, glare, dust or
other such adverse influences shall be permitted in any district that will in
any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or nearby property. All
wastes in all districts shall be disposed of in a manner that is not dangerous
to public health and safety, nor will damage public waste transmission or
disposal facilities. These regulations shall not apply to normal farm
operations.
   (B)   Livestock and animals.
      (1)   All parcels of property shall comply with the regulations and
density requirements for livestock and feedlots as regulated in
Ch. 152.
      (2)   Any building or open feedlot enclosure, not to include pastures, in
which livestock are kept shall be a distance of 100 feet or more from any other
parcel. These regulations shall not apply to normal farm operations which
existed prior to the adoption of this chapter; provided, no expansion shall
take place, except in accord with these regulations.
      (3)   In all districts, the manure from livestock and domestic pets shall
be properly treated and disposed with best management practices, and not
allowed to accumulate in any manner which may cause public health problems.
      (4)   The County Board may order the owner of any animals to apply for a
conditional or interim use permit if it is deemed to be in the interest of the
public health, safety or welfare.
      (5)   Keeping four or more dogs on any parcel for any reason shall be
deemed a kennel. Kennels are permitted by interim use in the AG and A/
R Districts only.
   (C)   Miscellaneous nuisances.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any vehicle of
a type requiring a license to operate on the public highway, but, without a
current license attached thereto, whether such vehicle be dismantled or not,
outside of an enclosed building in residential or agricultural districts,
except as provided in §
155.077 of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to create or maintain a junkyard or vehicle
dismantling yard, except as provided herein.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to create a nuisance affecting the health,
peace or safety of any person.
      (4)   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public health
or safety:
         (a)   The effluent from any cesspool, septic tank, drainfield or human
sewage disposal system, discharging upon the surface of the ground, or dumping
the contents thereof at any place, except as authorized;
         (b)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
         (c)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed or otherwise
disposed;
         (d)   The placing or throwing on any street, alley, road, highway,
sidewalk or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other
nuisance which may injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire
when passing over the same; and
         (e)   The ownership, possession or control of any unused refrigerator
or other container, with doors which fasten automatically when closed of
sufficient size to retain any person to be exposed and accessible to the public
without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches or providing locks to
prevent access by the public.
(Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 155.089 AUTO SERVICE STATIONS.
   The following standards shall be applicable to auto and truck service
stations in all districts.
   (A)   (1)   A surface water drainage system, subject to approval by the
County Engineer, shall be installed.
      (2)   The developed area site, other than that taken up by a structure or
planting, shall be surfaced with concrete or other material approved by the
Planning Commission. Pump islands shall not be placed in the required yards.
The area around the pump island, to a distance of eight feet on each side,
shall be concrete. A box curb not less than six inches above grade shall
separate the public right-of-way from the motor vehicle service areas, except
at approved entrances and exits. No driveways at a property line shall be less
than 50 feet from the intersection of two street right-of-way lines. Each
service station shall have at least two driveways with a minimum distance of
170 feet between centerlines when located on the same street.
   (B)   No vehicles shall be parked on the premises other than those utilized
by employees or awaiting service. No vehicle shall be parked or be waiting
service longer than 15 days. Existing service stations shall comply with this
requirement within 45 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Exterior storage besides vehicles shall be limited to service
equipment and items offered for sale on pump islands; exterior storage of items
offered for sale shall be within yard setback requirements and shall be located
in containers such as the racks, metal trays and similar structures designed to
display merchandise. Existing service stations shall comply with this
requirement within three months of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   All areas utilized for the storage, disposal or burning of trash,
debris, discarded parts and similar items shall be fully screened. All
structures and grounds shall be maintained in an orderly, clean and safe
manner. Existing service stations shall comply with this requirement within
nine months of the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Business activities not listed in the definition of service stations
in this chapter are not permitted on the premises of a service station unless
an interim use permit is obtained specifically for such business. Such
activities include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Automatic car and truck wash;
      (2)   Rental of vehicles, equipment or trailers; and
      (3)   General retail sales.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.090 SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of the sewage and wastewater treatment
and disposal standards shall be to provide minimum standards for, and
regulation of, subsurface sewage treatment systems (SSTS) and septage disposal
including the proper location, design, construction, operation, maintenance and
repair to protect surface water and ground water from contamination by human
sewage and waterborne household and commercial waste; to protect the public’s
health and safety, and eliminate or prevent the development of public nuisances
pursuant to the authority granted under M.S. Ch. 115 and 145A, as they may be
amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 through 7083, as amended,
that may pertain to sewage and wastewater treatment.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Standards adopted by reference. The county hereby adopts, by this
reference, Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 and 7081 and M.S. § 115.55, as it may be
amended from time to time, along with any future amendments.
      (2)   License requirements. No person shall engage in the evaluation,
inspection, design, installation, construction, alteration, extension, repair,
maintenance or pumping of on-site subsurface sewage treatment systems without
first obtaining a license to perform such tasks from the state’s Pollution
Control Agency, except as provided under Minn. Rules part 7083.0700. Only
gravity fed Type I systems can be installed by homeowners.
      (3)   Permits. No person shall install, alter, repair or extend any SSTS
in the county without first applying for and obtaining a permit from the
Environmental Health Office (EHO) and at the same time paying a fee as listed
in the fee schedule determined by the County Board of Commissioners.
Maintaining the system as originally designed and installed is excluded from
the previous requirements. A permit is required for the conversion of a septic
tank to a holding tank. As needed, operating permits and any associated fees
will be required by EHO staff when necessary for proper system operation. Staff
will notify the permittee of an incomplete application, when the requirements
are met a permit will be issued. Such permit shall be valid for a period of 18
months from the date of issuance. A full design must be submitted before a
permit for a new or replacement system is approved. When weather does not allow
a full site evaluation to be completed, a design of the worst case scenario
shall be submitted. Verification is required when weather permits.
      (4)   Construction inspections. The permittee shall notify the EHO prior
to the completion and covering of the SSTS. The installation and construction
of the SSTS shall be in accordance with the permit requirements and application
design. Inspections will be made at least once during the construction of the
SSTS at such time to assure that the system has been constructed per submitted
and approved design.
         (a)   No part of the system shall be covered until it has been
inspected and accepted by the Inspector unless prior arrangements have been
made.
         (b)   Proposals to alter the permitted construction shall be reviewed
and the proposed change accepted in writing by both the designer and the EHO.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or
authorized agent to notify the Inspector on the workday preceding the day
inspection is desired.
         (d)   If proper notice is given and the inspector does not appear for
an inspection within two hours after the time is set, the permittee may
complete the installation. The permittee shall then file a signed as-built,
including photographs of the system prior to covering, with the EHO within five
working days. The as-built shall include a certified statement that the work
was installed in accordance with submitted design and permit conditions and
that it was free from defects.
         (e)   Upon satisfactory completion of the system, the Inspector shall
perform a final inspection. If, upon inspection, the Inspector discovers that
any part of the system is not constructed in accordance with the minimum
standards provided in this chapter, the Inspector shall give the applicant
written notification describing the defects. The applicant shall be responsible
for the correction or elimination of all defects, and no system shall be placed
or replaced in service until all defects have been corrected or eliminated.
      (5)   Warranty, guarantee. Neither the issuance of a permit nor the
inspection of a system shall constitute any warranty or guarantee of operation
of the system.
      (6)   Permit requests. When either of the following occur the EHO
department will review records of the SSTS on the property to determine
adequate conformance. Said review may require conformance to Minn. Rules part
7080.2450, subpart 2, and/or require a certification of compliance of the SSTS:
         (a)   Any time that a permit is applied for in a shoreland management
area (1,000 feet of a lake, pond or flowage or 300 feet of a river or stream or
the landward extent of a floodplain); or
         (b)   With the addition of a bedroom on the property.
      (7)   Separation allowances.
         (a)   SSTS built after 3-31-1996 or in an SWF area as defined under
part Minn. Rules part 7080.1100, subpart 84, shall have three feet vertical
separation or a vertical separation based on applicable requirements. Existing
systems are allowed up to a 15% reduction from the three-foot required vertical
separation distance to account for settling of sand or soil, normal variation
of measurement, and interpretations of the limiting layer conditions.
         (b)   SSTS built before 4-1-1996, in areas that are not SWF areas as
defined under Minn. Rules part 7080.1100, subpart 84, must have at least two
feet of vertical separation.
      (8)   Pumping. When conducting compliance inspections and/or designing a
replacement SSTS that will use the existing septic/lift tank(s), the tanks(s)
shall be pumped by a licensed maintainer and certified. Pumping is not
mandatory if documentation exists that the tank has been pumped within the past
three years, however this alone does not fulfill the tank certification
requirement. In all cases, the tank integrity documentation must be completed
and is required at the time of applying for a SSTS permit.
      (9)   Maintenance holes. With septic tank pumping, the maintenance hole
(s) shall be brought to within one foot of finished grade and properly secured
as needed. With the pumping, maintaining or certification of a lift tank, the
pump riser must be brought to grade.
      (10)   Abandonment. SSTS must be properly abandoned according to Minn.
Rules part 7080.2500.
         (a)   If the individual abandoning a SSTS is not a licensed SSTS
professional, the abandonment must be inspected by a licensed SSTS inspector.
         (b)   A state abandonment document must be submitted to the local unit
of government within 90 days of abandonment.
      (11)   Failing SSTSs. Failing SSTS must be resolved on the following
schedule.
         (a)   A failing SSTS, as described in Minn. Rules part 7080.1500,
subpart 4b, shall be upgraded, replaced or its use discontinued within one year
of notice. The Environmental Health Office will give consideration to weather
conditions as it establishes compliance dates.
         (b)   An SSTS posing an imminent threat to public health or safety as
described in Minn. Rules part 7080.1500, subpart 4a, shall be abated within ten
days of notice. The system shall be upgraded, replaced or repaired or its use
discontinued, within six months of notice.
      (12)   Holding tanks.
         (a)   Holding tanks shall not be used as a sanitary system for a new
residential dwelling. For conforming lots and structures, a holding tank may be
used for expansions, alterations, additions and improvements to existing
dwellings so long as it does not exceed 50% of the value of the existing
structure as indicated in the records of the County Assessor, or 50% of the
footprint, whichever is more restrictive. Holding tanks may also be used for
the exact replacement of an existing dwelling.
         (b)   Holding tanks shall only be used as a corrective action for
sewage disposal for pre-existing uses where a full treatment system cannot be
installed.
         (c)   Undeveloped lots of record on which a holding tank is the only
practical means of sewage disposal are unsuitable for residential use.
         (d)   Holding tanks shall not be installed on undeveloped lots of
record for recreational uses unless the lot has been found to be suitable for a
dwelling and can support a full septic system.
         (e)   Holding tanks must have an alarm device for the prevention of
overflow.
         (f)   An owner must have a current pumping contract signed by the
owner and a licensed maintenance business. Records shall be kept to validate
required pumping.
         (g)   A septic tank that is converted to a holding tank must be pumped
and certified.
      (13)   Scope. All sewage generated in unsewered areas of the county shall
be treated and dispersed by an approved SSTS that is sited, designed,
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or by a system that has been permitted by the MPCA.
      (14)   Prohibitive discharge. It is unlawful for any person to construct,
maintain or use any SSTS regulated under this chapter that results in raw or
partially treated wastewater seeping to the ground surface or flowing into any
surface water. Any surface discharging system must be permitted under the
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System program by the MPCA.
      (15)   Dispute. If a documented discrepancy arises on the depth of the
periodically saturated soil, the following procedures shall be followed:
         (a)    All parties involved in the discrepancy will be contacted by
the Planning and Zoning Department and informed of the discrepancy.
         (b)   The disputing parties may agree to meet at the site in an
attempt to resolve differences.
         (c)   If one or both parties refuse to meet or the differences are not
resolved, the Planning and Zoning Department will make a decision based on the
information submitted as part of the discrepancy and any other information
gathered.
         (d)   If a party disputes the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Department, an opinion from a MN licensed professional soil scientist who is a
certified SSTS designer or inspector and who is independent of all parties, may
be obtained and submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department, at the party's
expense.
         (e)   If opinions rendered as outlined above do not resolve the
dispute, the Planning and Zoning Department shall take into consideration all
information and opinions rendered and make a final decision. The Zoning
Administrator shall issue written findings setting forth the reasons for any
final decisions it renders.
      (16)   Floodplain. SSTS shall not be located in a floodway and whenever
possible, location in a floodplain should be avoided. If no option exists to
locate a SSTS outside of a floodplain, location within the flood fringe is
allowed if the requirements in Minn. Rules part 7080.2270 and all relevant
local floodplain requirements are met.
      (17)   Class V injection wells. All owners of new or replacement SSTS
that are considered to be Class V injection wells, as defined in 40 C.F.R. part
144, are required by the Federal Government to submit SSTS information to the
Environmental Protection Agency as described in 40 C.F.R. part 144. Further,
owners are required to identify all Class V injection wells in property
transfer disclosures.
      (18)   Newly created lots. All lots created after 1-23-1996 must have a
minimum of two soil treatment and dispersal areas that can support trenches,
seepage beds, mounds and at-grade systems as described in Minn. Rules parts
7080.2200 through 7080.2230 and 7080.2260 or site conditions described in Minn.
Rules part 7081.0270, subparts 3 through 7. For the creation and division of
new lots, verification by soil borings located on a plan must be submitted
establishing that this requirement can be met.
      (19)   Management plans. Management plans are required for all new or
replacement SSTS. The management plan shall be submitted by the designer to the
local unit of government before issuance of a SSTS permit. Management plans
shall include requirements as listed in Minn. Rules part 7082.0600, subpart 1
(B), and other requirements as determined by the permitting authority.
      (20)   Operating permits.
         (a)   SSTS specified in Minn. Rules parts 7080.2290, 7080.2350 and
7080.2400 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7081 require an operating permit and shall
include Minn. Rules part 7082.0600, subpart 2, and other requirements as
determined by the permitting authority.
         (b)   The operating permit for new SSTS and MSTS will be issued in
tandem with the construction permit for the new system. Operating permits, when
needed for existing systems and or system repair, will be issued as separate
permits.
         (c)   Any additional fees for operating permits will be listed in the
fee schedule determined by the County Board of Commissioners.
      (21)   Treatment tanks. SSTS not operated under a management plan or
operating permit must have treatment tanks inspected every three years. Solids
must be removed when their accumulations exceed the limits as described in
Minn. Rules part 7080.2450.
      (22)   Sale or transfer. No owner of a tract of land on which a dwelling
is located, or tract of land on which a structure which is required to have an
SSTS is located, shall sell or transfer to another party said tract of land
unless requirements as stated in Ch. 157 of this code of ordinances are met.
      (23)   Septage management. Septage shall be pumped, managed, land applied
and disposed of in accordance with applicable state and federal laws.
   (C)   Site evaluation and design requirements.
      (1)   Minimum of three soil observations required. When designing systems
a minimum of three soil observations are required for each site, unless sites
are adjacent. For adjacent sites a minimum of three soil observations are
required with a minimum of two observations in the primary site and one
observation in the secondary site.
      (2)   Benchmarks, borings, percolation sites and dispersal area; must be
staked and labeled. Benchmarks, borings, percolation sites and dispersal area
must be staked and labeled in the field. The elevations of the above items must
be on the design.
      (3)   Septic tank. A minimum 1,500-gallon split tank is required. Split
tank capacity can be achieved with multiple tanks. For a new dwelling, burial
of the top of tank greater than four feet only allowed with LUG approval and
statement from tank manufacturer as to maximum designed depth for tank.
      (4)   Pump tank.
         (a)   At minimum, a 1,000-gallon pump tank is needed for lifting the
effluent to the soil treatment area.
 
Table 1: Drainfield Sizing Treatment Level C Minimum Treatment Area*
SLR
           Sand Loamy Sandy loam   Loam           Silt           Clay Loams
          Sand 1.20  0.78 gpd/ft2 Fine sand 0.60 Silt Loam 0.50 0.45 gpd/ft2
          gpd/ft2                 gpd.ft2        gpd/ft2
        2 600        600          600            600            667
BEDROOMS 3 700        800          800            900            1,000
         4 800        900          1,000          1,200          1,333
         5 900        1,000        1,250          1,500          1,667
 
 
Table 2: Drainfield Sizing Treatment Level A/B Minimum Treatment Area*
SLR
           Sand Loamy Sandy loam  Loam           Silt           Clay Loams 0.6
          Sand 1.60  1.0 gpd/ft2 Fine sand 0.78 Silt Loam 0.78 gpd/ft2
          gpd/ft2                gpd.ft2        gpd/ft2
        2 450        450         450            450            500
BEDROOMS 3 500        500         577            577            750
         4 550        600         769            769            1,000
         5 600        750         962            962            1,250
 
         (b)   *There are structure and consistence qualifiers per code
7080.2150 that may require design modifications before being able to properly
apply these tables.
      (5)   Soil texture; to be logged and accounted .When conducting
percolation tests, soil texture shall be logged and accounted for. If there is
a discrepancy between the soil texture and the percolation rate, the smaller
soil loading rate needs to be used.
      (6)   Trenches with 12 inches of rock; sizing. Trenches designed with 12
inches of rock or more under the distribution pipe shall be sized according to
Table 1 or Table 2 above.
      (7)   Mound systems. Mound systems are to be sized at 1.0 gpd/sq. ft.
      (8)   Type III, IV, V, non-residential SSTS. Type III, IV, V and non-
residential SSTS shall be time dosed.
      (9)   Bedroom additions; existing compliant SSTS. Bedroom additions with
an existing compliant SSTS where the treatment area cannot be practically
increased to the proper treatment area size, shall be time dosed.
      (10)   Gravity trenches in sandy soil. When installing gravity trenches
in sandy soil per Minn. Rules part 7080.2210, subpart 4, § F, item 2, the
maximum single trench area shall be determined as 15% of the state required
treatment area.
      (11)   Remediation. A permit shall be required when an operational
component is added, or a method employed to an SSTS to recover a failing
treatment area. Required information for this permit will be a description of
what is wrong with the existing SSTS, an inspection/compliance of the
components of the system, a lab sample of the existing effluent to determine
abnormalities, and a preliminary site evaluation of what the upgrade options
will be on the property if remediation fails to correct the problem. A
management plan/operating permit will also be required.
Table 3: Minimum Setback Distances (Feet)
 Sewage or Holding Tank Soil Treatment or Absorption Building Sewer or Supply
                        Area                         Pipes
Table 3: Minimum Setback Distances (Feet)
                                                                               Sewage  Soil       Building
                                                                               or      Treatment  Sewer or
                                                                               Holding or         Supply
                                                                               Tank    Absorption Pipes
                                                                                       Area
All public water wetlands as defined by M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 15a, as it may 50      50         -
be amended from time to time, or successor statute
Buildings***                                                                   10      20         -
Buried pipe distributing water under pressure*                                 10      10         10
Buried water suction pipe*                                                     50      50         50**
Ordinary high water mark of the following types of lakes and rivers:
General development lakes                                                      50      50         -
Recreational development lakes                                                 75      75         -
   Natural environmental lakes                                              150     150        -
   Mississippi River, agricultural rivers and tributaries as defined in §  75      75         -
155.057(D) of this chapter
   Transitional river segments (north fork of the Crow)                     150     150        -
Property lines****                                                             10      10         -
Subsurface drainage systems such as field tile lines                           50      50         -
Surface drainage systems such as open ditches                                  30      30         -
Water supply wells* (50 feet of continuous casing or encountering 10 feet of   50      50         50**
impervious material)
Water supply wells* (less than 50 feet of continuous casing)                   50      100        50**
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Setbacks from buried water pipes and water supply well as governed by Minn. Rules Ch. 4715 and 4725,
respectively.
** The setback can be reduced from 50 to 20 feet if the building sewer or supply pipe is air tested by
holding 5 pounds of air pressure for 15 minutes.
*** For structures other than buildings these setbacks may be reduced if necessary due to site conditions,
but in no case shall any part of the individual sewage treatment system be located under or within the
structure. For this provision to be employed there shall not be interior space below the structure. For
the new construction of a structure without interior space below the structure no part of the absorption
area shall encroach closer than 10 feet.
**** The setback from the treatment area to the platted road may be reduced with written approval from the
road authority. The Board of Adjustment shall review variance requests, including those from common
property lines, per §
155.026 in this chapter.
 
   (D)   Setbacks and placement of building sewer.
      (1)   The building sewer pipe extending from the house to the tank shall
not be less than four inches in diameter and must meet the strength
requirements of Schedule 40 plastic pipe. The pipe shall be supported in such
manner so that there is no deflection during backfilling and subsequent
settling of the soil between the building foundation and the inlet to the
septic tank. Construction of the line shall provide a grade of not less than
one-eighth inch per foot for minimum grades. No 90-degree ells shall be
permitted.
      (2)   The sewer pipe extending from the tank to the distribution medium
must meet the strength requirements of Schedule 40 plastic pipe. Sewer pipe
lines, manholes and other appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance with
the state’s Plumbing Code and the state’s Pollution Control Agency
requirements.
   (E)   Subject to change. The requirements of this chapter are intended to be
comparable to the Environmental Protection Agency and the state’s Pollution
Control Agency standards. Should this chapter differ from other agency
standards or should EPA or MPCA standards change, the more strict standards
shall apply.
(Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 155.091 DWELLING UNITS PROHIBITED.
    (A)   No garage, tent, trailer, motor home, accessory building, nor any
vehicle or building not specifically approved by the Building Inspector, may be
used at any time as a dwelling. The basement portion of finished home or
apartment may be used for normal eating and sleeping purposes; provided, it is
properly damp-proofed, has suitable fire protection and exits, and is otherwise
approved by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   One travel trailer or motor home (not to include mobile homes nor park
trailers) is permitted for seasonal use on any lot, provided that the following
conditions are met.
      (1)   Only one such unit is allowed per lot.
      (2)   Sewage must be properly treated or hauled away. On lots which have
been declared by the Board of Adjustment to be unacceptable as a building site,
the unit shall have a self-contained holding tank and sewage shall be hauled
away for treatment and disposal.
      (3)   The travel trailer is for guests or recreational use only. It may
not be occupied on any lot for more than 90 days in any one year.
      (4)   The unit must have a current license attached in accord with state
law.
      (5)   Placement of the unit shall comply with all setback requirements
for a principal structure.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.092 RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all permanent
relocation of residence and for the relocation of any building requiring a
permit in residential areas. Relocated sheds, farm buildings, cribs and other
farm structures onto farms do not require a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Relocation of construction sheds to be located on a lot for less than
18 months requires no permit. For relocation of structures requiring a permit,
the applicant shall submit photographs showing all sides of the structure to be
moved and proposed site plan of the lot on which the structure is to be
located. The Planning Commission shall also require a map indicating location
of surrounding lots and structures. The Planning Commission shall consider the
compatibility of the structure to be relocated with structures and uses on
surrounding lots. If the Planning Commission decides that relocation of the
structure would depreciate the value of structures or lots surrounding the lot
upon which it is to be moved, then the permit shall be denied. The relocation
of railroad cars and cabooses onto lots shall be prohibited in all districts.
   (C)   An interim use permit shall be required to locate a mobile home on any
property for use as a storage shed or other non-residential use.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.093 VACATED STREETS.
   Whenever any street, alley, easement or public way is vacated by official
action, the zoning district abutting the centerline of the said vacated area
shall not be affected by such proceeding. If a street is vacated, within a
zoning district, the provision of that district shall apply to the new parcels.
§ 155.094 PERMITTED ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The following shall be considered as permitted encroachments on
setback and height requirements, except as herein provided:
      (1)   In any yard. Posts, off-street open parking spaces, flues, leaders,
sills, pilasters, lintels, cornices, eaves, gutters, awnings, open terraces,
service station pump islands, open canopies, steps, chimneys, flag poles,
ornamental features and fences, and all other similar devices incidental and
appurtenant to the principal structure, except as restricted elsewhere herein;
      (2)   In side and rear yards. Bays not to exceed a depth of three feet or
contain an area of more than 30 square feet, fire escape not to exceed a width
of three feet. Breezeways, detached outdoor picnic shelters, open arbors and
trellises may extend to within five feet of a side or rear lot line; except
that, no structure shall exceed 500 square feet. Covered porches may extend 20
feet into the rear yard, but not closer than ten feet from the rear lot line,
and must meet shoreland standards; and
      (3)   Height limitations. Height limitations shall not apply to barns,
silos and other non-residential farm structures; to church spires, belfries,
cupolas and domes; monuments; chimneys and smokestacks; flag poles, public
utility facilities; transmission towers of commercial and private radio
broadcasting station; television antenna, private ham radio towers and parapet
walls extending not more than four feet above the limiting height of the
building, except as provided in municipal airport zoning provisions.
   (B)   In no event shall off-street parking space, structures of any type,
buildings or other features cover more than 50% of the lot area resulting in
less than 50% landscaped area in Residential Districts.
§ 155.095 ACCESS DRIVES AND ACCESS.
   (A)   Access drives may not be placed closer than five feet to any side or
rear lot line. No access drive shall be closer than three feet to any single-
or two-family residence, no closer than five feet to any multiple-family
building or commercial building. The number and types of access drives onto
major streets may be controlled and limited in the interests of public safety
and efficient traffic flow.
   (B)   Access drives onto county roads shall require a review by the County
Engineer. The County Engineer shall determine the appropriate location, size
and design of such access drives and may limit the number of access drives in
the interest of public safety and efficient traffic flow. Access drives onto
township roads shall be approved by the appropriate township board.
   (C)   Access drives to principal structures which traverse wooded, steep or
open field areas shall be constructed and maintained to a width and base
material depth sufficient to support access by emergency vehicles. The Building
Inspector shall review all access drives (driveways) for compliance with the
accepted community access drive standards.
   (D)   All driveways shall have a minimum width of ten feet with a pavement
strength capable of supporting emergency and fire vehicles.
   (E)   All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access for
emergency vehicles along the frontage of the lot or parcel from either an
existing dedicated public roadway, or an existing private roadway approved by
the County Planning Commission, the County Board or township board.
   (F)   (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters.
      (2)   Documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that all
roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to minimize and control
erosion to public waters consistent with the field office technical guides of
the local soil and water conservation district or other applicable technical
materials.
   (G)   Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet shoreland structure
setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
   (H)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and access-
related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones; provided, the
vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this subchapter are met.
For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of §
155.101 of this chapter must be met.
§ 155.096 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   All proposed irrigation systems shall require a permit from the Department
of Natural Resources (DNR).
§ 155.097 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is hereby found and declared that in the interest of and
to promote the general welfare of the people and to conserve the natural beauty
of the unincorporated rural areas of the county that it is necessary to
reasonably and effectively regulate and control the erection or maintenance of
signs. The objectives of this section include preserving the right of free
speech and expression, providing easy and pleasant communication between people
and their surroundings, and avoiding excessive levels of visual clutter and
distraction that are potentially harmful to traffic and pedestrian safety,
property values, business opportunities, or community appearance.
   (B)   Signs conform with this chapter. All signs hereafter erected or
maintained shall conform with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   Sign types.
         (a)   Canopy. A protective roof like covering, made of canvas or
similar fabric, mounted on a frame over a walkway, door or window of a
building.
         (b)   Wall. A painted or non-painted sign affixed on the side of a
building.
         (c)   Monument. A ground sign having a solid appearance and a
generally low profile. Must be attached to a proportionate enclosed base (50%
minimum). The sign may be constructed with stone, concrete, metal, routed wood
planks or beams, or similar materials which harmonize with the establishment it
serves. The sign base area shall not exceed the actual sign face area by 10%.
         (d)   Pole/pylon. A freestanding sign that is suspended by no more
than three metal, wood or concrete poles.
         (e)   Window. A painted or freestanding sign placed in or on a window
of a business.
         (f)   Billboard. Any sign that exceeds 96 square feet in surface area.
      (2)   Permit required. All signs, unless otherwise noted, shall require a
permit.
      (3)   Sign illumination.
         (a)   The light from any illuminated sign or from any light source,
including interior of a building, shall be so shaded, shielded or directed that
the light intensity or brightness shall not adversely affect surrounding or
facing premises, nor adversely affect safe vision of operators of vehicles
moving on public or private roads, highways or parking areas. Light shall not
shine or reflect in or into residential structures. Where a sign is
illuminated, the source of light shall not shine upon any part of a single
residential district.
         (b)   No signs shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or
other illuminating devices which have a changing light intensity, brightness or
color, or which are so constructed and operated as to create an appearance or
illusion of writing or printing. No signs should have flashing or rotating
signs resembling emergency vehicles.
      (4)   Message substitution. Subject to the land owner's consent, a
noncommercial message of any type may be substituted for any duly permitted or
allowed commercial message, or for any duly permitted or allowed noncommercial
message; provided, that the sign structure or mounting device is legal without
consideration of message content. Such substitution of message may be made
without any additional approval or permitting. This provision prevails over any
more specific provision to the contrary within this chapter. The purpose of
this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over
noncommercial speech, or favoring of any particular noncommercial message over
any other noncommercial message. This provision does not create a right to
increase the total amount of signage on a parcel, nor does it affect the
requirement that a sign structure or mounting device be properly permitted.
      (5)   Severability. The invalidation of any section, subsection, clause,
word, or phrase of this chapter, or of any definition in this chapter of any
word or phrase used in this chapter, by any court of competent jurisdiction
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
   (D)   Signs in the S-2 Residential-Recreational Shorelands District, S-
3 Commercial Recreation Shorelands, W/S Wild and Scenic, A/R Agricultural-
Residential, AG General Agriculture District and R-1, R-2, R-2a and R-
3 Residential Districts. In S-2, S-3, W/R, A/R, AG and R-1, R-2, R-2a and R-
3 Districts, no sign shall be erected, except as follows:
      (1)   One sign, not to exceed 35 square feet in surface area and not more
than 15 feet in height above the average grade shall be allowed on a parcel
with an active agricultural, horticultural, forestry or nursery operation, or
seasonal produce stand, or has a valid conditional or interim use permit. No
property will be permitted more than one sign under this provision. It may be
illuminated, but not flashing; and
      (2)   One canopy, window, or wall sign, which shall not exceed 35 square
feet in surface area or the height of the building, for a parcel with an active
agricultural, horticultural, forestry or nursery operation, or seasonal produce
stand, or has a valid conditional or interim use permit. This can be in
addition to the sign allowed under division (D)(1), above.
      (3)   Signs, located on the premises, for allowed conditional or interim
uses, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   No sign shall be erected within 30 feet of the road right-of-
way; and
         (b)   No sign shall be erected within ten feet of any abutting
property line.
   (E)   Signs in B-1 Highway Service, B-2 General Business and I-1 Limited
Industry Districts. In B-1, B-2 and I-1 Districts, no sign shall be erected,
except as follows:
      (1)   Signs, located on premises, shall comply with the following
provisions:
         (a)   No more than one pole/pylon or monument sign located on the
premises. The surface area cannot exceed 96 square feet. Signs permitted under
this section are limited to a height not to exceed the permitted building
height of the tallest structure on the property. It may be illuminated, but not
flashing.
         (b)   In addition to division (E)(1)(a), above, each parcel of
property is allowed:
            1.   One canopy, window, or wall sign which shall not exceed 10% of
the surface area of the front facade.
            2.    For a property that includes a drive-through window, two
additional signs, one no larger than ten square feet in surface area and 48
inches in height and located at least ten feet from a property line and at
least six feet from a curb cut, and the second no larger than 30 square feet in
surface area and facing the drive-through lane.
            3.   For a property (other than one including a drive-through
window) that includes one or more lanes limited to one-way traffic, one
additional sign, no larger than ten square feet in surface area and 48 inches
in height and located at least ten feet from a property line and at least six
feet from a curb cut.
      (2)   Parcels of property abutting US Highway 12, State Highway 55, and
Interstate Highway 94 shall be permitted to construct one pole/pylon sign or
monument sign that is in excess of the permitted building height, provided the
sign is not in excess of 50 feet in height above the average grade. Signs
permitted under this section shall not exceed 96 square feet in surface area
for each conditional or interim use and shall not exceed 300 square feet in
total surface area for all signs.
      (3)   All signs shall meet the following restrictions and setbacks:
         (a)   No sign shall be erected within ten feet of any abutting
property line.
         (b)   No sign shall be erected within 30 feet of the road right of
way.
   (F)   Signs in other zoning districts. All signs shall be prohibited in any
zoning district which is not specifically listed in divisions (D), (E), and (G)
except for signs which are classified as exempt under division (H).
   (G)   Billboards.
      (1)   Billboards are only permitted to be placed on property directly
abutting U.S. Highway 12, State Highway 55, and Interstate Highway 94 in the B-
1, B-2 and I-1 Districts.
      (2)   Billboards shall not exceed a maximum total surface area of 672
square feet per side, including any extensions, with a maximum of two sides.
Billboards may not be stacked vertically.
      (3)   The height of the top edge of a billboard cannot exceed 40 feet
above existing grade of the sign site with a minimum ground clearance of ten
feet.
      (4)   No billboard shall be erected within 100 feet of any abutting
property line in a district where billboards are prohibited. Otherwise,
billboards shall meet the same side and rear setback as any other building or
structure in that district.
      (5)   No billboard shall be permitted within ten feet of the right-of-way
of any street or road.
      (6)   No billboard shall be located within a radius of 660 feet of any
existing billboard.
      (7)   No billboard shall be located within 300 feet of a dwelling, at
grade intersection of two or more roads, or at grade intersection of any road
and a railroad.
      (8)   Billboards shall be a freestanding signboard located on or off
premise.
   (H)   Exempt signs. Unless prohibited in division (I), the following signs
shall be authorized in all zoning districts and shall not require a permit.
These exemptions, however, shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the
sign from the responsibility of its erection and maintenance, and its
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any other law or ordinance
regulating the same.
      (1)   Any sign owned or maintained by a governmental entity.
      (2)   The changing of the display surface on a previously approved
painted or printed sign.
      (3)   One sign six square feet or less in size and no more than five feet
in height per property.
      (4)   Non-commercial signs beginning 46 days before the state primary in
a state general election year until ten days following the state general
election.
      (5)   When the date of a local, municipal, county, township, or school
election does not correspond with the state primary or state general election,
non-commercial signs may be erected, within the jurisdiction conducting the
election, and maintained beginning 46 days before any scheduled primary or
general election until ten days following the general election.
      (6)   Each newly platted subdivision or development shall be allowed one
sign at each entrance of the subdivision or plat. Each sign shall not exceed 96
square feet in surface area and no more than 15 feet in height. Each sign shall
be allowed for one year after the recording of the plat, or for 30 days after
the last property or parcel in the plat is sold or transferred, whichever is
later.
      (7)    Every parcel of property is entitled to additional signs totaling
but not exceeding 12 square feet in surface area and no more than five feet in
height while the parcel of property is actively being marketed for sale or
rent.
      (8)   Every parcel of property shall be entitled to one sign no more than
120 square inches in surface area to be placed in all of the following
locations:
         (a)   On the front of a residence;
         (b)   On each side of an authorized United States Postal Service
mailbox;
         (c)   On one post which measures no more than 48 inches in height and
four inches in width.
      (9)    Every parcel of property is entitled to additional signs totaling,
but not exceeding, 24 square feet in surface area and no more than 15 feet in
height when there is an event at the subject property and not posted for more
than 28 days.
      (10)   Every parcel of property is entitled to additional, unilluminated
signs, to be used during the construction of a building, and which in total are
not to exceed 12 square feet each in surface area and are no more than 15 feet
in height. Said signs shall be removed within six months from the start of
construction.
      (11)   In the interest of safe traffic flow, every parcel of property is
entitled to additional signs totaling, but not exceeding, 24 square feet in
surface area and no more than 15 feet in height.
   (I)   Signs prohibited.
      (1)   Flashing or rotating signs resembling emergency vehicles, official
traffic control devices not owned by a public body, or railroad signs or
signals not owned by a railroad or a public body, shall not be permitted in any
district.
      (2)   Dynamic signs shall not be permitted in any district.
      (3)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any door, fire escape,
stairway or other opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress of
any building or structure.
      (4)   No sign shall be placed that resembles any official marker erected
by a governmental agency.
      (5)   Signs shall not be permitted within public right-of-way or
easements except for signs allowed under division (H)(1) and division (H)(8)
(b).
      (6)   Abandoned signs shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the
premises upon which the sign is located. If the owner or lessee fails to remove
the sign, the Zoning Administrator shall remove it in accordance with division
(K)(3) below. These removal provisions shall not apply where a succeeding owner
or lessee has a valid conditional or interim use permit and agrees to maintain
the signs as provided in this chapter or changes copy on the signs in accord
with a valid conditional or interim use permit and provided the signs comply
with the other provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the safety
of a building or premises or endangers the public safety must be taken down and
removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure or land upon which the sign is located.
      (8)   Unless otherwise noted, no sign shall be placed on public street/
traffic signs, utility poles or public property. Signs in violation of this
division may be removed by county personnel at their discretion, without
advance notice to the sign owner.
      (9)   Any other structure, banner, balloon, trailer, building, portable
device or anything visible from a public road which is used as a sign is
prohibited unless specifically authorized by this chapter.
   (J)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   The property owner or other persons having control of signs subject
to the requirements of this chapter shall be responsible to see that the
regulations contained herein are followed.
      (2)   The erection of any new sign outlined in this chapter, unless
otherwise noted, shall require a permit. The fee for sign permits shall be
established by resolution of the County Board.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator and/or the
Building Official upon filing of an application for a sign permit, to examine
such plans and specifications and other data; and if it appears that the
proposed structure is in compliance with all requirements of this chapter and
all other laws and ordinances of the county, then the Zoning Administrator
shall grant the sign permit. In addition, all illuminated signs shall be
subject to the provisions of the state’s Electrical Code and shall comply with
the Underwriter’s standard as defined in the current Underwriter Laboratories
standard for safety, electric sign.
      (4)   Where work for which a permit is required by this chapter is
started or proceeded with prior to obtaining a permit, the fee as provided by
the County Board shall be doubled. Payment of such double fee shall neither
relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter
in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
      (5)   If the work authorized under a sign permit has not been completed
within six months after the date of issuance, said permit shall expire
automatically and renewal of the permit shall be required.
   (K)   Inspection, removal, safety.
      (1)   Inspection. Any sign for which a permit is required may be
inspected periodically by the Zoning Administrator for compliance with this
chapter and all other applicable laws.
      (2)   Maintenance.
         (a)   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign and the owner of
the land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other
growth cut and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the property on
which a sign is located.
         (b)   Painting, repainting, cleaning and normal maintenance and repair
of a sign or sign structure is required to protect the sign and prevent its
deterioration and maintain its neat appearance. Such maintenance is allowed
without permit unless a structural change is made. All signs must be maintained
in a neat and orderly condition.
      (3)   Removal of signs. The Zoning Administrator shall order the removal
of any sign erected or maintained in violation of this chapter. Ten days’
notice in writing shall be given to the owner of such sign, or of the building,
structure or premises on which such sign is located, to remove the sign or to
bring it into compliance with this chapter. Upon failure to remove the sign or
to comply with this notice, the Zoning Administrator may remove the sign. The
Zoning Administrator may remove the sign immediately and without notice if it
reasonably appears that the condition of the sign is such as to present an
immediate threat to the safety of the public. Any costs of removal incurred by
the Zoning Administrator shall be assessed to the owner of the property on
which such sign is located and may be collected in the manner of ordinary
department or in the manner of taxes and all costs shall be assessed against
the property. Signs located within the right-of-way of county roads may be
removed by the county at any time without notice.
   (L)   Prior lawful non-conforming signs.
      (1)   Lawful signs existing on the effective date of this chapter which
do not conform to the regulations set forth in this chapter shall become a non-
conforming use.
      (2)   Business signs that were lawfully established when erected on the
premises of a non-conforming building or use may be continued so long as they
continue to comply with the version of this chapter in effect at the time the
signs were established, but such signs shall not be increased in number, area,
height, volume, or illumination. Such signs may be illuminated, but no
flashing, rotating, or moving signs shall be permitted.
      (3)   No business sign erected before the passage of this chapter shall
be rebuilt, altered, or moved to a new location without being brought into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   In the event that the use of a non-conforming business sign
structure is discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of six
months, any subsequent use of the sign shall be a conforming use.
      (5)   Legal nonconforming signs on residential and seasonal residential
real estate shall be allowed to continue as provided under M.S. § 394.36, Subd.
4, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018;
Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.098 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Essential services, as defined by this chapter, may have an effect
upon urbanizing areas of the county, county land uses, highway location, the
preservation of natural environmental areas, lakes, streams, rivers, and park
and recreation areas.
   (B)   Essential services are a conditional use unless otherwise stated in
this section.
   (C)   Filing and setback requirements.
      (1)   All essential services including large facilities and those for
local distribution or other similar appurtenances or facilities shall be
located entirely within a public road right-of-way or shall meet the road
right-of-way setbacks as required for principal structures in all zoning
districts.
      (2)   The proposed location of all essential and transmission services in
any land use district shall be filed with the county Highway Department prior
to commencement of any condemnation action or construction. The proposed
location of all essential and transmission services along a township road
right-of-way shall also be filed with the Township Clerk prior to commencement
of any condemnation action or construction.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Essential services located within a public road right-of-way,
platted utility easement, or within a pre-existing utility easement recorded
prior to January 1, 2017, for their entire length shall be considered a
permitted use in all districts and are exempt from the conditional use permit
requirements of this chapter, provided all necessary permits are obtained from
the road authority and all state and federal requirements are met. "As-built"
plans for such essential services which specify the location of the essential
service must be filed with the county Highway Department, and the Township
Clerk when the essential services are located in a township road right-of-way,
in a format specified by the county Highway Engineer within 90 days of final
completion.
      (2)   County and township structures and support facilities are exempt
from requiring conditional use permits.
      (3)   Essential services, as referred to in this section, do not include
the lateral lines, cables, wires, pipes, or sewers which extend from the trunk
transmission, collection, or distribution lines, mains, or pipes to service a
single residence or other lawfully permitted structure.
   (E)   Application procedures. The following application procedure shall be
observed.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator such maps
indicating the location, alignment and type of service proposed as shall be
necessary to determine the potential impacts of the essential services.
      (2)   The essential service permit then shall be treated as a conditional
use permit and the applicant shall be responsible to comply with all terms of
this chapter applicable to such permits.
   (F)   Time limit. Conditional use permits shall expire in two years unless
all conditions in an essential service utility permit are commenced within the
two years and completed within one more year unless otherwise specified by the
Planning Commission.
   (G)   Pipeline safety. Where any construction or development is proposed
adjacent to a pipeline as defined in M.S. § 299J.05, as it may be amended from
time to time, said project shall comply with all provisions for pipeline safety
and setback standards as specified in M.S. § 299J.05, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (H)   Energy storage systems. Energy storage systems are not an essential
service but are permitted in business and industrial districts provided the
energy storage system, including battery technology, has less than 100 kilowatt
hours (kWh) of capacity. An energy storage system, including battery
technology, which does not exceed 100 kilowatt hours (kWh) of a capacity is
permitted in all agricultural or residential districts only as an accessory use
to a primary dwelling. Energy storage systems, including battery storage
technology, which exceed 100 kilowatt hours (kWh) of capacity are prohibited in
all zoning districts. An “energy storage system” has the meaning given in M.S.
§ 216B.2422, subd. 1(f).
(Ord. 16-8, passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 23-4, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 155.099 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent and purpose of this section is to assure quality
development equal to that found in other types of residential areas throughout
the community. Excellence of design, development and maintenance is the desired
objective.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall attempt to develop or operate a
mobile home park within the community without first obtaining a permit
therefor. The requirements of a permit shall prevail over all other standards
and requirements notwithstanding the more restrictive sections of this chapter.
A permit for a mobile home park may contain other requirements beyond those
mentioned in this section.
   (C)   Application. The applicant for a permit, in addition to other
requirements, shall include the name and address of the developer and a general
description of the construction schedule and construction cost. The application
for a permit shall be accompanied by 12 copies of plans which indicate the
following:
      (1)   Location and size of the mobile home park;
      (2)   Location, size and character of all mobile home lots, mobile home
stands, storage areas, recreation areas, laundry drying areas, central refuse
disposal, roadways, parking spaces and sites and all setback dimensions;
      (3)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
      (4)   Location and width of sidewalks;
      (5)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service, telephone service and gas service;
      (6)   Plans for an overhead street lighting system shall be submitted for
approval by the County Engineer;
      (7)   The method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
      (8)   Location and size of all streets abutting the mobile home park and
all driveways from such streets to the park;
      (9)   Plans and specifications for all road construction either within
the park or directly related to park operation;
      (10)   Floor plans of all service buildings to be constructed within the
mobile home park;
      (11)   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
community; and
      (12)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision.
   (D)   Performance standards for mobile home parks.
      (1)   A mobile home park shall contain at least 150 fully developed lots.
A minimum of 50 mobile home stands must be fully developed, together with all
required auxiliary buildings and areas, before any mobile home may be occupied.
      (2)   All mobile homes shall be properly connected to a central water
supply and a public sanitary sewer system. All water and sewer systems shall be
constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the County
Engineer. Where a public water supply is available to the mobile home park or
at the boundary of the park, a connection to said public water supply shall be
provided for each mobile home.
      (3)   All mobile home parks shall have one or more recreational areas
which shall be easily accessible to all park residents. Recreational areas
shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and should, where the
topography permits, be centrally located. The size of such recreational area
shall be
based upon a minimum of 15% of the land area (exclusive of streets), but no
outdoor recreational area shall contain less than 2,000 square feet. All
equipment installed in such an area shall be owned and maintained by the owner
or operator at his or her own expense.
      (4)   Each mobile home park shall maintain a paved off-street overload
parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each three
coach sites and located within 300 feet of the unit to be served.
      (5)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone and
television antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the County
Engineer, and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles, except those
essential for street or other lighting purposes. All utility connections shall
be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to connection and electrical
service shall be at least 120-volt, 100-ampere capacity. Plan for the disposal
of surface storm water shall be approved by the County Engineer.
      (6)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around
each mobile home park. All mobile home parks shall be screened with a fence
along the property boundary lines separating the park from residential and non-
residential uses to protect adjoining property owners.
      (7)   No mobile home, off-street parking space or building shall be
located within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of any mobile home park. No
mobile home shall be located within 125 feet of the existing or planned
centerline of a public street.
      (8)   Signs shall be limited to one nameplate or identification sign not
to exceed 25 square feet, with lighting, height and location as approved by the
Zoning Administrator and have a 15-foot setback from the front line.
      (9)   The area beneath all mobile homes shall be enclosed with a material
that shall be generally uniform through the entire mobile home park; except
that, such an enclosure must be so constructed that it is subject to reasonable
inspection. No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection of
plumbing, electrical facilities and related mobile home equipment.
      (10)   Each mobile home lot shall be served by a central fuel supply
system such as natural gas or a central LP system. No separate private fuel
containers, such as fuel oil tanks or LP tanks shall be allowed in the mobile
home park.
      (11)   All mobile home parks shall have an area or areas set aside for
dead storage. Boats, boat trailers, hauling trailers and all other equipment
not generally stored within the mobile home or within the utility enclosure,
that may be provided, shall be stored in a separate place provided by the park
owner. This storage place shall be screened. Such equipment shall not be stored
upon a mobile home lot which is occupied by a mobile home nor upon the streets
within the mobile home park.
      (12)   Each mobile home lot within a mobile home park shall abut on and
have access to a private road used by the inhabitants of the park and built and
maintained by the owner thereof. This road shall lead to and furnish ingress
and egress from a public street through controlled driveways which shall have a
right-of-way at least 60 feet in width. The private roads and the access roads
to public streets shall be paved with a concrete or bituminous material
complying with the specifications for the construction of any community street.
The paved surface shall be at least 36 feet in width from curb to curb. A
concrete curb and gutter shall comply with all applicable community ordinances.
There shall also be a paved three-foot wide walkway from the slab to the
frontage curb. Access drives off roads to all parking spaces and mobile home
slab sites shall be paved.
      (13)   Each mobile home park shall have one or more central community
buildings with central heating which must be maintained in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition. Said buildings shall be adequately lighted during all hours
of darkness and shall contain laundry washers, dryers and drying areas, public
telephones and public mail boxes, in addition to public toilets and lavatory.
For each 100 mobile home lots or fractional part thereof, there shall be one
flush toilet and one lavatory for each sex.
      (14)   Every structure in the mobile home park shall be developed and
maintained in a safe, approved and substantial manner. The exterior of every
such structure shall be kept in good repair and shall be repainted or
refinished when so directed by the community’s Building Inspector. All of said
structures must be constructed to meet existing community codes. Portable fire
extinguishers rated for electrical and liquid fires shall be kept in all
service buildings and other locations conveniently and readily accessible for
use by all occupants.
      (15)   All structures shall require a building permit. It is not the
intent of this section to repeal or abrogate any part of the Building Code. The
provisions of the section shall be enforced in addition to and in conjunction
with the provisions of the Building Code.
   (E)   Mobile home park lots.
      (1)   Each mobile home site shall contain at least 6,000 square feet of
land area for the exclusive use of the occupant and shall be at least 60 feet
wide, which size site allows for a maximum length mobile home of 55 feet.
Larger mobile homes will require longer lots to comply with the following
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall be placed upon mobile home lots so that there
shall be at least a 20-foot clearance between mobile home and 20 feet between
the front of the mobile home and the front lot line and 25 feet between the
rear of the mobile home and the rear lot line. Mobile homes shall be parked no
closer than ten feet to a side lot line.
      (3)   The area occupied by a mobile home shall not exceed 50% of the
total area of a mobile home site; land may be occupied by a mobile home, a
vehicle, a building, a cabana, a ramada, a carport, an awning, storage closet
or cupboard or any structure.
      (4)   The yards shall be landscaped except for the necessary driveway and
sidewalk needs which shall not exceed one-half the width of the site.
Landscaping shall include at least one tree, hedges, grass, fences, windbreaks
and the like. Temporary storage shall not be allowed in the lawn area.
      (5)   Each mobile home lot shall have paved off-street parking space for
at least two automobiles. Each space shall be ten feet by 20 feet minimum or as
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   The corners of each mobile home lot shall be clearly marked and
each site shall be numbered.
      (7)   Each mobile home lot shall be so designed that automobiles may not
be parked within five feet of the side of any mobile home or within five feet
of the front or back of the mobile home.
   (F)   Mobile home stands. The area of the mobile home stand shall be
improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the
mobile home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding,
rotation and overturning.
      (1)   The mobile home stands shall not heave, shift or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home, due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration or other forces acting upon the structure.
      (2)   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs,
such as cast-in-place concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead
anchors or other devices providing for stability of the mobile home.
      (3)   Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of
the mobile home stand and each anchor shall be able to sustain a minimum
tensile strength of 2,800 pounds or as approved by the current Minnesota State
Uniform Mobile Home Standards Code, whichever is more restrictive.
      (4)    All land areas shall be adequately drained and properly maintained
free of dust, refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris. The proposed method of
garbage, waste and trash disposal must be approved by the community and must
conform to the regulations of the state’s Pollution Control Agency. Refuse
collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such stands
shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize
spillage and container deterioration, and to facilitate cleaning around them.
The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall
be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
      (5)   No mobile homes shall be located in the mobile home park that do
not conform to the requirements of the most current Minnesota State Uniform
Mobile Home Standards Code and has the state seal of compliance affixed to it.
No mobile home shall be allowed therein which is in an unsanitary condition, or
which has an exterior in bad repair, or which is structurally unsound, or which
fails to protect the inhabitants of said mobile home against all the elements.
      (6)   No person shall erect, place, construct, reconstruct, relocate,
alter, maintain, use or occupy a structure in a mobile home park without the
written consent of the owner or operator of said park.
      (7)   Dogs and animals shall not be permitted to run at large within the
mobile home park.
      (8)   No public address or loud speaker system shall be permitted.
      (9)   No tents shall be erected, or occupied, and there shall be no
outdoor camping anywhere in the trailer park.
      (10)   Laundry and clothes shall be hung out to dry only on lines located
in approved areas established and maintained exclusively for that purpose.
      (11)   No person shall bring or keep an automobile into the mobile home
park that does not have a current license and is not in operable condition.
      (12)   Land in the mobile home park shall be used for residential
purposes only.
      (13)   Each mobile home shall be equipped with an approved fire
extinguisher.
      (14)   No open fires shall be permitted within the park and no fires in
burners or incinerators shall be left unattended at any time. The operator
shall provide safe, adequate incinerator service in full compliance with any
state laws or local ordinances pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.100 MINING AND EXTRACTION.
   (A)   Purpose. Modern lifestyles create the indisputable need for a
continued and uninterrupted supply of aggregate material. Accordingly, mining
is a necessary land use that shall be balanced with the impact on the
environment, health, welfare, safety, and quality of life of Wright County
residents and future generations. The purpose of this section is to regulate
mining operations so as to minimize conflicts with adjacent land uses and
ensure that mining operations are reclaimed with a use compatible with
surrounding land uses and a use as designated in the Comprehensive Land Use
Plan.
   (B)   Administration; permit review.
      (1)   An interim use permit shall be required for all commercial mining
operations. Said permit shall be valid for a period of time set by the County
Planning Commission but shall not exceed ten years; after which, a new interim
use permit shall be required. Except that an interim use permit for a hot mix
asphalt plant shall not be issued for a term in excess of two years.
      (2)   Persons requesting a mining permit shall submit said fee to the
County Planning Commission together with all information required in this
section.
      (3)   For mining operations which will last only one season, such as for
road projects, the Planning Commission may issue a temporary mining permit.
Such permit may include the placement of a bituminous hot mix plant and other
accessory equipment. Said permits shall only apply if the mining site is to be
opened, closed and reclaimed within one year. The Zoning Administrator may
waive some of the information required by division (C) below in the case of a
temporary mining permit. A temporary mining permit shall be administered as an
interim use permit.
      (4)   If the request is denied, no reapplication shall be made for a
period of six months.
   (C)   Information required. The following information shall be provided by
the person requesting the permit:
      (1)   Name and address of person requesting the mining permit;
      (2)   The exact legal property description and acreage of area to be
mined;
      (3)   The following maps of the entire site and to include all areas
within 500 feet of the site. All maps shall be drawn to a scale as determined
by the Zoning Administrator and submitted on scale-size paper, otherwise stated
below:
         (a)   Map A, existing conditions to include:
            1.   Contour lines at two-foot intervals;
            2.   Existing vegetation;
            3.   Existing drainage and permanent water areas;
            4.   Existing structures; and
            5.   Existing wells.
         (b)   Map B, proposed operations to include:
            1.   Structures to be erected;
            2.   Location of sites to be mined showing depth of proposed
excavation;
            3.   Location of tailings deposits showing maximum height of
deposits;
            4.   Location of machinery to be used in the mining operation;
            5.   Location of storage of mined materials, showing height of
storage deposits;
            6.   Location of vehicle parking, truck staging, queueing, or
stacking area, access roads and local truck routes;
            7.   Location of storage of explosives, equipment, and other
materials;
            8.   Erosion and sediment control structures;
            9.   Screening, berms, and proposed plantings; and
            10.   Location of leak containment structures, in the event of a
petrochemical leak or spill.
         (c)   Map C, end use plan to include:
            1.   Final grade of proposed site showing elevations and contour
lines at two-foot intervals;
            2.   Location and species of vegetation to be replanted; and
            3.   Location and nature of any structures to be erected in
relation to the end use plan.
      (4)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan;
      (5)   A plan for dust and noise control;
      (6)   A full and adequate description of all phases of the proposed
operation to include an estimate of duration of the mining operation; and
      (7)   Any other information requested by the Planning Commission or
Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   Mining operations shall be an interim use in the Agricultural
District.
      (2)   The crushing, washing, refining or processing, other than the
initial removal of material, shall be considered a separate interim use.
      (3)   In stone quarries, the production or manufacturing of veneer stone,
sills, lintels, cut flagstone, hearthstones, paving stone and similar
architectural or structural stone and the storing or stockpiling of such
products on the site shall be considered a separate interim use.
      (4)   The manufacture of concrete building blocks or other similar
blocks, the production or manufacture of lime products, the production of
ready-mixed concrete and any similar production or manufacturing processes
which might be related to the mining operation shall be considered as a
separate interim use.
      (5)   The crushing, heating, storage, washing, refining, or processing of
asphalt or bituminous material for the production of bituminous asphalt
material shall be considered a separate interim use.
      (6)   A new interim use permit shall be required for any mining operation
where the amount of imported material exceeds the amount of material extracted
or the primary use changes from the extraction of aggregate resources to the
processing of materials.
      (7)   The Planning Commission may impose additional performance standards
as part of the interim use permit.
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Weeds and any other unsightly or noxious vegetation shall be cut
or trimmed as may be necessary to preserve a reasonably neat appearance and to
prevent seeding on adjoining property.
         (b)   No sand and gravel operation shall be conducted on parcels of
less than 20 acres in size. This limitation shall not apply when the tract of
land is contiguous to an active mining operation, provided that both tracts are
being operated by the same sand and gravel producer.
         (c)   All equipment used for mining operations shall be constructed,
maintained and operated in such a manner as to minimize, as far as is
practicable, noises and vibrations which are injurious or substantially
annoying to persons living in the vicinity. All non-conforming uses shall apply
for and obtain an interim use permit.
         (d)   All hot mix asphalt plants must utilize odor control technology
or additives to reduce the odors emitted from the hot mix asphalt plant. The
applicant for a hot mix asphalt plant interim use permit shall state in their
application the means and methods they will be utilizing for effective odor
control. Any technologies or products used must be stated in the annual report
if required under § 155.100(I).
      (2)   Water resources.
         (a)   The mining operation shall not be allowed to interfere with
surface water drainage beyond the boundaries of the mining operation.
         (b)   The mining operation shall not adversely affect the quality of
surface or subsurface water resources.
         (c)   Surface water originating outside and passing through the mining
district shall, at its point of departure from the mining site, be of equal
quality to the water at the point where it enters the mining site. The mining
operator shall perform any water treatment necessary to comply with this
provision.
      (3)   Safety fencing. Any mining operation adjacent to a residential zone
or within 300 feet of two or more residential structures shall comply with the
following standards.
         (a)   Where collections of water occur that are one and one-half feet
or more in depth existing for any period of at least one month, and occupy an
area of 700 square feet or more, all access to such collections of water shall
be barred by a fence or some similarly effective barrier such as a snow fence
at least four feet in height.
         (b)   In locations where slopes occur that are steeper than one foot
vertical to three feet horizontal existing for a period of one month or more,
access to such slopes shall be barred by a fence or some similarly effective
barrier such as a snow fence of at least four feet in height.
      (4)   Mining access roads. The location of the intersection of mining
access roads with any public roads shall be selected such that traffic on the
access roads will have a sufficient distance of the public road in view so that
any turns onto the public road can be completed with a margin of safety. Access
roads connecting to public roads or highways shall be sufficiently wide to
accommodate two-way hauling traffic. Intersections of public roads with access
roads shall be maintained by the mine operator and shall be kept clean and free
from mud, debris or asphalt tracked out from the mining site. Such
intersections shall also be repaired by the mine operator if the public road
surface or shoulders have broken down due to repeated traffic by mining trucks
and equipment. The need for turn lanes, road improvements, maintenance, or
repair will be determined by the road authority. Upon written notification from
a local road authority directing the repair, maintenance, or other such actions
due to the repeated traffic by mining trucks and equipment, the property owner
or operator shall have 14 days to comply with the directives of the local road
authority. If the property owner or operator fails to comply within that time,
the Zoning Administrator may suspend any interim mining permit. Any suspension
shall be in effect until all conditions or requirements from the local road
authority are brought into compliance. No mining, extraction, or processing
activities shall occur during a suspension.
      (5)   Screening barrier.
         (a)   To minimize problems of dust and noise and to shield mining
operations from public view, a screening barrier shall be maintained between
the mining site and adjacent residential and commercial properties. A screening
barrier shall also be required between the mining site and any public road
within 500 feet of any mining or processing operations. The type and extent of
the barrier shall be set by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
may waive or alter screening requirements in this section.
         (b)   Existing trees and ground cover along public road frontage or
property lines shall be preserved and maintained (or supplemented), for the
depth of the roadside or property line setback, except where traffic safety
requires cutting and trimming.
         (c)   Any trees or shrubs approved for use as a screening barrier must
be mature and at least six feet in height. Any tree or shrub which is overcome
with disease or that is deceased must be replaced with a new mature tree at
least six feet in height and of the same type within 30 days. All trees and
shrubs must be irrigated as needed to prevent disease or death.
      (6)   Setback.
         (a)   Processing of minerals shall not be conducted closer than 100
feet to the property line, nor closer than 500 feet to any residential or
commercial structures located prior to commencement of processing operations.
The processing of minerals shall not be conducted within shoreland principal
structure setback distances.
         (b)   Mining operations, not to include berms or screening barriers,
shall not be conducted closer than 30 feet to the boundary of an adjoining
property line.
         (c)   Unless approved in writing by the applicable road authority,
mining operations, not to include berms or screening barriers, shall not be
conducted closer than 30 feet to the right-of-way line of any existing or
platted street, road or highway; except that, excavating may be conducted
within such limits in order to reduce the elevation thereof in conformity to
the existing or platted street, road or highway.
      (7)   Appearance. All buildings, structures and plants used for the
production of processing of sand and gravel shall be maintained in such a
manner as is practicable and according to acceptable industrial practice as to
assure that such buildings, structures and plants will not become dangerously
dilapidated.
      (8)   Days and hours of operation.
         (a)   All mining operations shall be conducted between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, unless otherwise specified by
the Planning Commission;
         (b)   Any operations not conducted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
7:00 p.m. shall require a new or amended interim use permit. Such permits shall
be granted for public or private emergency, for government work required by
agency contracts, or whenever any reasonable or necessary repairs to equipment
are required to be made.
         (c)   Operations shall include the loading and unloading of trucks and
the moving and processing of materials. Trucks may enter the mining site no
earlier than 6:00 a.m. and leave the mining site no later than 7:00 p.m. At no
time may trucks park, queue, or stack on public rights-of-way. The Planning
Commission may authorize work outside of the restrictions stated herein as part
of an interim use permit hearing.
         (d)   Operations shall be prohibited on county designated holidays as
of January 1, 2023.
      (9)   Dust and dirt.
         (a)   All equipment used for mining operations shall be constructed,
maintained and operated in such a manner as to minimize, as far as practicable,
dust conditions.
         (b)   All mining operators will be responsible for providing water or
other suitable methods to control dust on roads utilized by trucks hauling to
or from mining operations. Roads that require cleaning or dust control because
of mining operations shall be tended to when conditions warrant, or a potential
safety hazard exists.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may require dust control measures within
mining operations when it is determined that airborne dust from extraction
areas, processing activities, stockpiles, internal roads, or other mining
related activities may create a public nuisance. Such dust control measures may
include berming, landscaping, or enclosures for processing equipment.
      (10)   Signage. An information sign shall be erected at the intersection
of the primary access road and the public road servicing the site identifying
the name of the company or landowner responsible for the operations at the
site. This sign shall also include a telephone number(s) for the company or
responsible landowner, shall be clearly visible from the public road, and shall
conform to the signage requirements in §
155.097 of this chapter.
      (11)   Other regulations. All operations must abide by all other local,
state, and federal rules, laws, regulations and provisions. Any violation of
these other provisions may result in the revocation of the interim use permit.
      (12)   Inactivity. In the event less than 10,000 cubic yards of material
has been removed from the mining operation in any five-year period, as
indicated through the Aggregate Removal Tax program, the Planning Commission
may require a hearing to review the facility and may terminate the mining
permit.
   (F)   Land rehabilitation. All mining sites shall be rehabilitated
immediately after mining operations cease. The Planning Commission shall review
and require a staged reclamation when applicable. Rehabilitation shall be
complete within one year or within the terms specified in the interim use
permit. The following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Within 12 months after completion of mining activities or after
termination of the permit, all equipment, vehicles, machinery, structures,
processing plants, materials, and debris shall be removed from the site.
      (2)   Unless otherwise stated by the Planning Commission, a minimum of
four inches of clean, uncontaminated topsoil shall be placed on all final
graded and rehabilitated areas. The peaks and depressions of the area shall be
graded and backfilled to a surface which will result in a gently rolling
topography in substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding
area, and which will minimize erosion due to rainfall. No finished slope shall
exceed 25% in grade.
      (3)   For reclaimed areas that include water features, the banks of such
features shall be sloped to the water line at a slope no greater than two feet
horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (4)   All restored areas shall be seeded with a mixture consistent with
Minnesota Department of Transportation specifications for rights-of-way or a
mixture recommended by the Wright County Soil and Water Conservation District,
or returned to crop production, unless otherwise specified or approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (5)   The finished grade shall be such that it will not adversely affect
the surrounding land or future development of the site upon which mining
operations have been conducted. The finished plan shall restore the mining site
to a condition whereby it can be utilized for the type of land use proposed to
occupy the site after mining operations cease.
      (6)   Unless otherwise amended or approved by the Planning Commission,
all final grades and site restoration shall be consistent with Map C, the End
Use Plan.
   (G)   Financial guarantee. The county shall require a performance bond, cash
escrow, or irrevocable letter of credit in a form and from a financial
institution acceptable to the county, to guarantee compliance with this chapter
and terms and specifications of the interim use permit. The county shall have
the right to use the financial guarantee to remove stockpiles, complete site
rehabilitation, and correct other deficiencies or problems, in the event the
owner or operator is in default of the permit obligations. The amount of
financial guarantee shall be equal to $5,000 for every permitted acre or any
other amount deemed acceptable by the Planning Commission. The financial
guarantee may be adjusted periodically to reflect ongoing progress, at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator, and shall remain in full force and
effect until all conditions of the permit have been met, including site
restoration.
   (H)   Exceptions. A mining and extraction permit shall not be required for
any of the following:
      (1)   Excavation for a foundation, cellar, or basement of a building or
subsurface sewage treatment system, if such work has been properly permitted.
      (2)   Excavation by state, county, city, or township authorities in
connection with construction and maintenance of roads, highways, bridges, or
utilities conducted solely within the permanent easement areas or rights-of-
way.
      (3)   Grading and removal of materials in accordance with the development
of an approved plat or development, if the activity was reviewed as part of the
approval process.
   (I)   Annual report. All property owners and operators with an active
conditional or interim use permit, regardless of when the permit was issued,
for mining shall submit for the previous year an annual report, on a form as
provided by the Office of Planning and Zoning, to the Zoning Administrator in
paper and electronic portable document format ("pdf") on or before January 31
of each year. The annual report form shall include at a minimum the following:
      (1)   The actual rate of mining and the remaining minable reserves which
includes at a minimum the operating life of the mine, including the rate of
mining and anticipated changes in that rate, and the factors used to determine
the minable reserves and changes which would expand or diminish such reserves;
      (2)   The actual mining activities including the types, amounts,
sequence, and schedule for mining the material on site and stockpiling
materials, including the distinctions among all aggerate resources and waste
material;
      (3)   The actual reclamation activities including the methods, sequence,
and schedules of reclamation which address the goals and meets the requirements
of this chapter and any conditions of the permit held on file with the Wright
County Office of Planning and Zoning; and
      (4)   The amount and type of imported aggregate and imported material
brought to the property; and
      (5)   A map which depicts the status of mining, construction,
reclamation, and watershed modifications, at a scale which is normally used by
the operator for the mine planning purposes, which:
         (a)   defines the shape and extent of the aggregate material which
will support the operating life of the mine; and
         (b)   identifies all known and inferred mineral reserves or resources
which are located within the mining area but which have not been included as
part of the mining plan;
         (c)   identifies lands proposed for use as vegetative reference and
screening areas, depict the detailed drainage patterns for waters which may
contact leachable materials; and
         (d)   depicts at appropriate intervals, approved by the Zoning
Administrator, the status of: all mining (including shape, extent, and content)
and reclamation (including contouring, dust control, temporary stabilization,
vegetation, and deactivation) of each: stockpile, basin, mine, drainage
control, settling basin, and auxiliary facilities.
      (6)   Failure to timely file an annual report is prima facia evidence
that the gravel operation is inactive.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.101 LAND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   A land alteration permit shall be required in all cases where
excavation, grading and/or filling of any land within the county would result
in a substantial alteration of existing ground contour or would change existing
drainage or would cause flooding or erosion or would deprive an adjoining
property owner of lateral support and would remove or destroy the present
ground cover resulting in less beneficial cover for present and proposed
development, uses and enjoyment of any property in the county.
      (2)   (a)   Substantial alteration shall be defined as the extraction,
grading or filling of land involving movement of earth and materials in excess
of 50 cubic yards in the shorelands districts, and in excess of 500 cubic yards
in all other districts except drain tiles and ditch cleaning in agricultural
areas. Such substantial alteration shall require a conditional use permit.
         (b)   The creation of wildlife ponds, pollution control structures and
erosion control structures shall not require a conditional use permit, provided
that said construction is approved by an official of the Soil and Water
Conservation District and abides by all other applicable rules, regulations and
ordinances.
      (3)   The extraction, grading or filling of land involving the movement
of earth and materials in excess of ten cubic yards within shore, bluff impact
zones or steep slopes in shoreland areas shall require an administrative
permit, but not a conditional use permit.
      (4)   Public road improvement projects, and grading and excavation
directly related to such projects (not to include gravel pits), shall not
require a land alteration permit; provided, the work is directly supervised by
the County Engineer or the governing body of a local unit of government.
      (5)   A land alteration permit is also required from the county and from
the Commissioner of Natural Resources for any alteration in the Floodplain
District and the Shorelands Districts. Such alteration shall include any
filling, dredging, channeling or any other work in the beds of public waters
which would change the course, current or cross-section of a public water.
      (6)   A land alteration permit shall be valid for a period of six months
from the date of issue. A land alteration permit shall be administered in the
same manner as a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Requirements. Before the issuance of a land alteration permit or an
administrative land alteration permit, it must be established that all of the
following conditions are met. These conditions must also be adhered to during
the issuance of construction permits, permits, conditional use permits, interim
use permits, variances and subdivision approvals.
      (1)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wetland must
be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would affect
the following functional qualities of the wetland (this evaluation must also
include a determination of whether the wetland alteration being proposed
requires permits, reviews or approvals by other local, state or federal
agencies such as a watershed district, the state’s Department of Natural
Resources or the United States Army Corps of Engineers. The applicant will be
so advised):
         (a)   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
         (b)   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
         (c)   Fish and wildlife habitat;
         (d)   Recreational use;
         (e)   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
         (f)   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals or others.
      (2)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that ensures
only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest time
possible.
      (3)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
      (4)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before they
reach any surface water feature must be used.
      (5)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
      (6)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
      (7)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
      (8)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
      (9)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. §§ 103G.301
through 130G.315, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (10)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted, interim, or conditional uses and do not adversely
affect adjacent or nearby properties.
      (11)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the landward
extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water level, and
the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does not exceed
three feet.
   (C)   Connections to public waters. Excavations where the intended purpose
is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and
harbors, require a conditional use permit. Permission for excavations may be
given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed connection to
public waters.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.102 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent blight, to protect the general welfare and property
values, and to ensure reasonable consistency with existing housing styles and
designs, the following minimum standards shall apply to all single-family
dwellings, in addition to any other standards or conditions contained within
this chapter.
   (A)   Building shall be anchored to a permanent concrete or treated wood
foundation, in accord with the Minnesota State Building Code standards.
   (B)   The minimum width of the structure shall be 24 feet, as measured
across the narrowest portion. Width measurements shall not take into account
overhangs, nor other projections beyond principal walls.
   (C)   There shall be a minimum 3:12 roof pitch with a minimum 12-inch
soffit. Alternative roof styles may be approved by the Building Inspector based
on generally accepted construction practices, building codes and the nature of
the surrounding neighborhood. Unadorned flat roofs shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Only new units shall be permitted. The relocation of previously
occupied units shall require a conditional use permit.
§ 155.103 RULES AND DEFINITION OF HOME EXTENDED BUSINESS.
   (A)   Business must be located on the homestead of the business operator.
   (B)   No more than one employee in addition to the owner/operator and family
members residing at the homestead.
   (C)   All work and work related items shall be kept in an enclosed
structure. In very limited circumstances, the Planning Commission may allow for
the storage of items in a fully enclosed fence. Trees, plants, and bushes do
not qualify as fencing; but these items may be required as part of an overall
landscaping plan.
   (D)   Shall provide two parking spaces per employee of one space for each
400 square feet of building area, whichever is greater.
   (E)   Excessive noise levels are prohibited (that which may be considered a
nuisance, L10 at 55 dBA decibels as regulated by NPC regulations).
   (F)   Lot coverage must comply with all zoning standards.
   (G)   Site must be capable of supporting on-site sanitary facilities, sewer
and water.
   (H)   All effluent consisting of any liquid, gaseous or solid waste
substance resulting from any process of manufacturing (i.e., sewage or
industrial waste) shall not be discharged into the soil, water or air unless it
is at a location determined appropriate by the Planning Commission, Planning
Staff and/or Pollution Control Agency.
   (I)   The operator must properly dispose of all waste including, but not
limited to, garbage, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, sand, ashes,
oil, tar, chemicals, offal and all other substances.
   (J)   Working hours shall be set by the County Planning Commission.
   (K)   A business sign shall be permitted which is no larger than 35 square
feet; it may not be illuminated.
   (L)   If located on a township road and determined necessary by the town
board, a letter of agreement containing any dust control measures determined
necessary by the township shall be provided prior to issuance of the interim
use permit and renewed annually (January 1 of every year).
   (M)   All posted road limits shall be obeyed.
   (N)   Distance from building to next residence shall be at least 500 feet.
   (O)   Must be outside of platted areas.
   (P)   Building shall be no larger than 2,000 square feet.
   (Q)   After four founded nuisance or permit violation complaints have been
made and verified with written notice to the holder of the interim use permit
or at any time upon the written request of the town board a hearing shall be
called to re-consider the interim use permit within 60 days.
   (R)   Building must conform to present buildings and to neighborhood.
(Ord. 16-6, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.104 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR RETREAT CENTERS.
   (A)   Size and density for residential buildings. A retreat center must be
located on a parcel of land which includes at least 40 contiguous acres. The
number of residential buildings may not exceed the number of residences on the
land as allowed by the underlying zoning district, but may include the number
that would be allowed by transferring entitlements from contiguous property as
defined in section §
155.048 of this chapter, but not any extra units that may have accrued to a
rural PUD as defined in §
155.059 of this chapter. For as long as the retreat center operates, there
shall be no other residential buildings, nor subdivisions allowed on the land
designated for the retreat center. The residential buildings shall be detached
from any communal facilities, accommodations for sleeping and sanitation may be
provided. The residential buildings shall not be dwelling units, and shall not
include kitchen facilities; except that, one unit may be approved as a
residence for a caretaker and family. Other than a caretaker’s residence, no
one person or family may occupy the residential buildings (one, or more than
one in combination) for more than 30 days per year. Each residential building
shall be detached from every other residential building. Except for a
caretaker’s residence, no residential building shall exceed 750 square feet of
total floor area. No dormitories, apartments, condominiums, nor any other type
of multiple dwelling units, are allowed. Each residential building shall be
accessible to emergency service vehicles by path or private road, but internal
improved streets are not required.
   (B)   Communal facilities.
      (1)   All structures not defined as residential buildings shall be
communal facilities, which may include a nature center, conservatory,
interpretive center, exhibit, museum, library or closely related use. One
communal facility may provide common showers, bathrooms and kitchen and dining
facilities for guests at the retreat center, but no food service nor restaurant
may be open to the public. The communal facilities shall not be used as
dwelling units, nor motel, hotel, dormitory, rooming house nor any residential
occupancy. In no case shall the number of communal facilities exceed three.
Buildings used for communal facilities shall not exceed a total of 10,000
square feet of floor space for all such facilities combined.
      (2)   Only one communal facility shall be used as an interpretive center,
museum, library or similar use, and the hours of operation and programming
shall be consistent with a retreat center as defined in this chapter, and as
approved by the Planning Commission as part of the interim use permit. The
communal facility buildings shall be principally, but not exclusively, for the
use of the persons occupying the residential buildings. The one communal
facility which may be used as an interpretive center, museum, library or
similar use may be available to private guests of the owner of the retreat
center, and to the general public only at such hours and days as approved in
the interim use permit and as consistent with the location in a rural area.
      (3)   Unless the retreat center contains only one structure, there shall
not be a separate lot of record for each structure (no lot divisions). Parking
requirements shall be included in the terms of the interim use permit, but the
retreat center shall provide at least two parking spaces at any communal
facility, and at least two off-street parking stalls for each residential
building.
   (C)   Other standards and requirements.
      (1)   Any use allowed in the zoning district as a conditional or interim
use may only be allowed with the retreat center if expressly included in the
interim use permit for the retreat center; except that, commercial outdoor
recreation uses are not allowed within the area of the retreat center. The
performance standards of §§
155.047(F) and
155.048(F) of this chapter shall apply; except that, a separate lot shall not
be required nor permitted for each structure, and that commercial outdoor-
commercial recreation use is not included in the retreat center. Commercial
campgrounds and recreation vehicle camps are not allowed, but camping sites may
be provided as long as occupancy (number) does not exceed the number that would
be allowed if each camping site was a residential building/unit (one family
each).
      (2)   Yard requirements (§§
155.047(F)(3) through (7) and
155.048(F)(2) through (4) of this chapter), shall not apply to each building
and shall only to the retreat center as a whole. Clustering of the buildings on
the site shall be allowed, as long as the total number of structures does not
exceed the number that would be allowed if the retreat center land was divided
into the maximum number of lots permitted in the underlying district for that
amount of land. Residential buildings may be clustered as such, but must remain
as detached structures with no common walls.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.105 FARMLAND PRESERVATION PROPERTY TAX CREDIT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The property tax credit program is enacted to assist in the
preservation of commercial agricultural uses and the rural environment
necessary for continuing agricultural practices.
      (2)   The County program is enacted to carry out the goals within M.S.
Ch. 40A, Agricultural Land Preservation Program, as it may be amended from time
to time, and the County Land Use Plan.
   (B)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Any and all eligibility requirements contained within M.S. Ch. 40A,
as it may be amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by reference,
and shall apply as if set forth herein.
      (2)   Only legally created parcels, lots or lots of record which are
designated as Agricultural or Agricultural/Residential in the County Land Use
Plan shall be eligible. In those cases where a lot or parcel may lie within two
different designations in the Land Use Plan, the land will be eligible;
provided:
         (a)   The majority of the parcel is designated as Agricultural or
Agricultural/Residential; and
         (b)   No part of the parcel is designated as a major growth area.
      (3)   Only lands which lie entirely within the AG - General Agriculture
Zoning District (§
155.048 of this chapter) shall be eligible. A residential density no greater
than one residence per 40 acres shall be maintained, however, residences
existing prior to the adoption of this section shall not preclude eligibility.
      (4)   Lands enrolled in the program must be legally created parcels, lots
or lots of record which are at least 35 acres in size. Smaller parcels may be
enrolled subject to approval by resolution of the County Board; provided that:
         (a)   The smaller parcels adjoin other parcels being enrolled in the
program to provide a total greater than 35 acres in size;
         (b)   No such parcel may be withdrawn from the program except in
conjunction with similar parcels with total at least 35 acres in size; and
         (c)   No such parcel may be used as a new residential building site
despite any eligibility granted by this chapter, unless an overall density of
one residence per 40 acres is maintained.
      (5)   Parcels, lots or lots of record may not be subdivided for the
purpose of enrolling only part of the property in the program while retaining
other parts for development or other non-agricultural uses. Divisions which
strictly comply with the provisions of §
155.048 of this chapter may take place before or after enrollment in the
program.
      (6)    Lands lying within any township which has adopted its own zoning
ordinance may be eligible, provided, all of the eligibility requirements are
met, the local zoning complies with county zoning requirements and approval is
obtained, in writing, from the township board of supervisors.
   (C)   Procedure/application.
      (1)   Requirements for application and inclusion in an exclusive
agricultural use zone, as defined in M.S. Ch. 40A, as it may be amended from
time to time, and for obtaining the benefits thereof, shall include all those
set forth in said Ch. 40A, and shall be adopted herein by reference.
      (2)   An application fee for processing the application shall be set by
the County Board. In addition, the applicant shall be required to pay all
necessary fees charged by the County Recorder.
   (D)   Benefits and restrictions. The benefits and restrictions which apply
to property enrolled in exclusive agricultural use zones shall be as set forth
in M.S. Ch. 40A, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall be
incorporated herein by reference.
   (E)   Duration and termination. The duration and termination of an exclusive
agricultural use zone shall be as set forth in M.S. Ch. 40A, as it may be
amended from time to time, and shall be incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. passed 8-30-1988; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 155.106 ANTENNAS AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   ANTENNA, PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. A device consisting of a metal,
carbon fiber or other electromagnetically conducive rods or elements on a
single supporting pole or other structure, and used for the transmission and
reception of wireless communication radio waves including cellular, personal
communication service (PCS), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR),
paging and similar services and including the wiring, related ground equipment
and the support structure thereof.
      (2)   ANTENNA, MICROWAVE. A parabolic dish or cornucopia shaped
electromagnetically reflective or conductive element used for the transmission
and/or reception of point to point UHF or VHF radio waves in wireless
communications, and including the wiring, related ground equipment and the
supporting structure thereof.
      (3)   ANTENNA, RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCAST TRANSMITTING. A wire, set
of wires, metal or carbon fiber rod or other electromagnetic element used to
transmit public or commercial broadcast radio, or television programming, and
including the wiring, related ground equipment and the support structure
thereof. (Allowed by interim use in the I-1 District only.)
      (4)   ANTENNA, RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEIVING. A wire, set of wires,
metal or carbon fiber element(s), other than satellite dish antennas, used to
receive radio, television or electromagnetic waves, and including the
supporting structure thereof.
      (5)   ANTENNA, SATELLITE DISH. A device incorporating a reflective
surface that is solid, open mesh or bar configured and is in the shape of a
shallow dish, cone, horn or cornucopia. Such device is used to transmit and/or
receive radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally
based uses. This definition shall include, but not be limited to, what are
commonly referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs (television, receive
only) and satellite microwave antennas and the wiring, related ground equipment
and support structure thereof.
      (6)   ANTENNA, SHORT-WAVE RADIO TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING. A wire, set
of wires or a device, consisting of a metal, carbon fiber or other
electromagnetically conductive element used for the transmission and reception
of radio waves used for non-commercial short-wave radio communications, and
including the supporting structure thereof.
      (7)   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any pole, telescoping mast, tower,
tripod or any other structure which supports a device used in the transmitting
or receiving of electromagnetic energy.
   (B)   General standards. The following standards shall apply to all
antennas.
      (1)   All obsolete and unused antenna shall be removed within 12 months
of cessation of use, unless a written exemption is granted by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   All antenna shall be in compliance with all federal, state and
local building, electrical and other relevant code requirements.
      (3)   Structural design, mounting and installation of any antenna support
structure shall be in compliance with manufacturer’s specifications. The
construction plans and design of any antenna requiring a permit shall be
verified and approved by a registered professional engineer.
      (4)   No advertising message, nor identification, shall be affixed to any
antenna structure.
      (5)   Antennas shall not be artificially illuminated unless required by
law or by a governmental agency to protect the public health and safety. Guy
wires or guy wire anchors shall not be erected within public or private utility
and drainage easements, and shall be set back a minimum of five feet from all
lot lines. Guy wires within ten feet of the ground surface must be fenced
within an enclosure or maintained with a cover of highly reflective material to
prevent accidental collision.
      (6)   When applicable, proposals to erect new antenna shall be
accompanied by any required federal, state or local agency licenses or proof of
application thereof.
      (7)   Antenna support structures under 200 feet in height shall be
painted or coated silver or have a galvanized finish to reduce visual impact,
unless otherwise required by federal law. Silver or galvanized finishes shall
be required unless the setting or natural surroundings can be used to justify
another color.
      (8)   No land may be subdivided for the purpose of providing space for
any antenna unless all lot size requirements for the relevant zoning district
are met and subdivision approval is obtained.
      (9)   No antenna to be used for any commercial purpose shall be placed on
any land enrolled in the exclusive agricultural use zone Farmland Preservation
Property Tax Credit Program pursuant to §
155.105 of this chapter.
      (10)   The addition of antennas and associated equipment of an additional
provider to an existing legal structure shall be considered co-location and not
require an amendment to the interim use permit.
   (C)   Permitted and accessory uses.
      (1)   Radio and television receiving antennas and satellite dish antennas
shall be permitted in all districts and shall not require any permit provided
the following standards are met.
         (a)   Antennas and necessary support structures, monopoles or towers
may extend a maximum of 15 feet above the building height restriction for the
affected zoning district.
         (b)   Any antenna or antenna support structure not located on a
building must be located in the rear yard, no closer to any property line than
the height of the structure.
         (c)   The installation of more than one support structure per property
shall require the approval of an interim use permit.
         (d)   Satellite dish antennas larger than two meters in diameter must
meet all building setback standards, and dishes over three meters in diameter
are prohibited in all Residential and Shoreland Districts.
      (2)   Private short wave radio antennas, and other private radio
transmitting or receiving antennas are allowed in all districts; provided that,
the following standards are met.
         (a)   The maximum support structure height shall be 75 feet and all
other standards of division (B) above must be met.
         (b)   A use and building permit shall be required in accord with §
155.030 of this chapter.
         (c)   Radio support structures (towers) must be installed in
accordance with the instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower
model. Antenna mounted on such a tower may be modified or changed at any time
so long as the published allowable load on the tower is not exceeded and the
structure of the tower remains in accordance with the manufacturers
specifications.
         (d)   Any antenna or antenna support structure not located on a
building must be located in the rear yard, no closer to any property line than
the height of the structure.
   (D)   Personal wireless service and microwave antennas.
      (1)   Residential and Shoreland Districts.
         (a)   Antenna and support structures shall not exceed 75 feet in
height in the R-1, R-2, R-2a and all Shoreland and Wild and Scenic Districts.
         (b)   Commercial antennas (other than co-location) and support
structures of any type in the R-1, R-2, R-2a and all Shoreland and Wild and
Scenic Districts shall require an interim use permit and be subject to all
other requirements for an interim use listed in division (E) below.
         (c)   Any antenna or antenna support structure not located on a
building must be located in the rear yard, no closer to any property line than
the height of the structure.
      (2)   Agricultural Districts (AG, General Agriculture and A/R,
Agricultural/Residential).
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may issue an administrative use permit
for any antenna support structure equal to or less than 130 feet in height, or
for any antenna to be located on any pre-existing legal antenna support
structure, or for any antenna to be located upon an existing building or
structure which does not exceed 15 feet in height above the permitted structure
height. An application filed for any new structure must include all the
information required for an interim use permit as specified in division (E)
below. If the Zoning Administrator finds that the information submitted does
not properly address all of the requirements of this chapter, he or she may
require an interim use permit upon providing the applicant a written summary of
the reasons for this finding.
         (b)   An interim use permit shall be required for any antenna or
support structure over 130 feet in height. No structure shall be located closer
to any property line than the height of the structure.
      (3)   Commercial Districts (B-1, B-2 and I-1).
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may issue an administrative use permit
for any antenna support structure equal to or less than 130 feet in height, or
for any antenna to be located on any pre-existing legal antenna support
structure, or for any antenna to be located upon an existing building or
structure which does not exceed 15 feet in height above the permitted structure
height. An application filed for any new structure must include all the
information required for an interim use permit as specified in division (E)
below. If the Zoning Administrator finds that the information submitted does
not properly address all of the requirements of this chapter, he or she may
require an interim use permit upon providing the applicant a written summary of
the reasons for this finding.
         (b)   An interim use permit shall be required for any antenna or
support structure over 130 feet in height. No structure shall be located closer
to any property line than one-half the height of the structure, exceptions to
such setback may be granted if a structural engineer licensed in the state
specifies in writing that any failure or collapse of the structure will occur
within a lesser distance under all foreseeable circumstances.
   (E)   Standards and requirements for interim use permits.
      (1)   Information required with application. In addition to the standard
application materials required by § 155.031 of this chapter for an interim use
permit, no application for an antenna shall be complete unless the following
data has been submitted.
         (a)   Documentation of the area to be served, including a search ring
for the antenna location. A narrative describing a search ring (with not less
than a one-half mile radius) for the request clearly explaining why the site
was selected and what existing (over 100 feet in height) structures were
available and why they are not suitable as locations or co-locations.
         (b)   Documentation that the communications equipment planned for the
proposed structure cannot be accommodated on any existing or approved structure
within the search ring of the service area due to one or more of the following
reasons:
            1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved structure or building, as documented by a qualified
structural engineer, and the existing or approved structure cannot be
reinforced or modified to accommodate planned equipment at a reasonable cost
(or within a reasonable time);
            2.   The planned equipment would cause interference with other
existing or planned equipment at location as documented by a qualified radio
frequency (RF) engineer, and the interference cannot be prevented at a
reasonable cost;
            3.   No existing or approved structures or buildings within a half-
mile radius meet the radio frequency (RF) design criteria;
            4.   Existing or approved structures and buildings within a one-
half mile radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary
to function reasonably as documented by a qualified radio frequency (RF)
engineer; or
            5.   A good faith effort to co-locate on existing structures within
a one-half mile radius was made, but an agreement could not be reached.
         (c)   An agreement stating that structures over 130 feet tall will be
designed for not less than three users (including the applicant) with applicant
and property owner commitment to co-location on reasonable market terms in good
faith; any prohibition of additional users on a tower will be considered a
violation of the interim use permit. The agreement shall also include a
statement that any unused or obsolete tower shall be removed by the property
owner and/or applicant. Said agreement shall be signed by the applicant and the
property owner and shall be attached to and become a part of the permit.
      (2)   Standards and conditions. In addition to any terms or conditions
applied as a result of the process for issuing an interim use, the following
standards shall apply to all antenna and support structures unless specifically
waived by the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Antenna and support structures shall be certified by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer to conform to the latest structural
standards of the Uniform Building Code and all other applicable codes. Antennas
shall be designed to conform with accepted electrical engineering methods and
practices and to comply with the provisions of the National Electrical Code.
         (b)   Antenna support structures shall be constructed of, or treated
with, corrosive resistant material.
         (c)   Any proposed support structure over 130 feet in height shall be
designed, in all respects, to accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and
comparable antennas for at least two additional users. To allow for future
rearrangement of antennas, the structure shall be designed to accept antennas
mounted at no less than ten-foot intervals. Support structures less than 130
feet and greater than 75 feet in height shall be designed for a total of two
users.
         (d)   All support structures shall be reasonably protected against
unauthorized climbing. The bottom of the structure (measured from ground level
to 12 feet above ground level) shall be designed in a manner to preclude
unauthorized climbing and shall be enclosed with a minimum of an eight-foot
high chain link fence with a locked gate.
         (e)   All antennas and support structures shall utilize building
materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that blend the tower
facilities within the surrounding natural setting and built environment to the
greatest extent possible.
         (f)    No part of any antenna or support structure, nor any lines,
cable, equipment, wires or braces shall at any time extend across or over any
part of the right-of-way, public street, highway or sidewalk, unless
specifically approved by the county.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.107 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter is established to regulate the installation and
operation of wind energy conversion systems (WECS) within the county not
otherwise subject to siting and oversight by the state under M.S. Ch. 216F, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   AGGREGATE PROJECT. Those which are developed and operated in a
coordinated fashion, but which may have multiple entities separately owning one
or more of the individual WECS within the larger project. Associated
infrastructure such as power lines and transformers that service the
facility may be owned by a separate entity, but are also included as part of
the AGGREGATE PROJECT.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL WECS. A WECS of equal to or greater than 40 kW in total
nameplate generating capacity.
      (3)   FALL ZONE. The area, defined as the furthest distance from the
tower base, in which a guyed tower will collapse in the event of a structural
failure. This area is less than the total height of the structure.
      (4)   FEEDER LINE. Any power line that carries electrical power from one
or more wind turbines or individual transformers associated with individual
wind turbines to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid. In
the case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems, the
point of interconnection shall be the substation serving the WECS.
      (5)   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. For the purpose of this chapter,
meteorological towers are those towers which are erected primarily to measure
wind speed and directions plus other data relevant to siting WECS.
METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS do not include towers and equipment used by airports, the
state’s Department of Transportation or other similar applications to monitor
weather conditions.
      (6)   MICRO-WECS. Micro WECS are WECS of five kW nameplate generating
capacity or less.
      (7)   NON-COMMERCIAL WECS. A WECS of more than five, but less than 40 kW
in total name plate generating capacity.
      (8)   PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS. Land owned in fee title by county, state
or federal agencies and managed specifically for conservation purposes,
including, but not limited to, county parks, state wildlife management areas,
state parks, state scientific and natural areas, federal wildlife refuges and
waterfowl production areas. For the purpose of this section, public
conservation lands will also include lands owned in fee title by non-profit
conservation organizations. PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS do not include private
lands upon which conservation easements have been sold to public agencies or
non-profit conservation organizations.
      (9)   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving
rotor blades.
      (10)   SUBSTATIONS. Any electrical facility designed to convert
electricity produced by the wind turbines to a voltage greater than 35,000
volts (35 KV) for interconnection with high voltage transmission lines shall be
located outside of the road right-of-way.
      (11)   TOTAL HEIGHT. The height of a WECS as measured from ground level
to the highest point reached by a rotor tip or any other part of the WECS.
      (12)   TOWER. Vertical structures that support the electrical generator,
rotor blades or meteorological equipment.
      (13)   TOWER HEIGHT. The total height of the WECS exclusive of rotor
blades.
      (14)   TRANSMISSION LINE. Those electrical power lines that carry
voltages of at least 69,000 volts (69 KV) and are primarily used to carry
electrical energy over medium to long distances rather than directly
interconnecting and supplying electric energy to retail customers.
      (15)   WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that
converts kinetic energy of blowing wind into electric energy through the use of
airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
   (C)   Applications.
      (1)   All applications for micro WECS, non-commercial WECS and
meteorological towers shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name of project applicant;
         (b)   The name of the property owner;
         (c)   The legal description and address of the property;
         (d)   A description of the project including: number, type, nameplate
generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter and total height of all wind
turbines and means of interconnecting with the electrical grid;
         (e)   Site layout, including the location of property lines, wind
turbines, electrical wires, interconnection points with the electrical grid and
all related accessory structures. The site layout shall include separation/
setback distances and be drawn to scale;
         (f)   Plan designed by a state licensed engineer for footings and
structure;
         (g)   Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the
property; and
         (h)   Life expectancy of the WECS and proposed abandonment date.
      (2)   All applications for commercial WECS shall also include:
         (a)   The latitude and longitude of individual wind turbines;
         (b)    A half-section map of the property and surrounding area,
including any other WECS within a quarter mile of the proposed WECS;
         (c)    Location of wetlands and natural areas (including bluffs)
within one-quarter mile of the proposed WECS;
         (d)   FAA permit application;
         (e)   Evidence of power purchase contracts;
         (f)   Location of all known communication towers within two miles of
the proposed WECS;
         (g)   Decommissioning plan;
         (h)   Description of potential impacts on nearby WECS and wind
resources on adjacent properties;
         (i)   Road and grading plans, including drainage and erosion control
measures; and
         (j)   A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit, if required.
   (D)   Aggregated projects. Aggregated projects may jointly submit a single
application and be reviewed under joint proceedings, including notices,
hearings, reviews and, as appropriate, approvals. Permits will be issued and
recorded separately. Joint applications will be assessed fees as one project.
The state’s Public Utilities Commission shall be the site permitting authority
for all WECS with a nameplate generating capacity of five megawatts or more.
   (E)   District regulations.
District Micro- Non-            Commercial WECS Meteorological Tower
         WECS   Commercial WECS
District          Micro-      Non-            Commercial WECS    Meteorological
                  WECS        Commercial WECS                    Tower
AG General        Permitted*  Permitted*      Interim use permit Permitted*
Agriculture
AR Ag/Residential Permitted*  Interim use     Prohibited         Prohibited
                              permit
B1 Highway        Permitted*  Interim use     Interim use permit Permitted*
Business                      permit
B2 General        Permitted*  Interim use     Interim use permit Permitted*
Business                      permit
I1 General        Permitted*  Interim use     Interim use permit Permitted*
Industry                      permit
R1 Urban Rural    Prohibited  Prohibited      Prohibited         Prohibited
Transition
R2 Suburban       Interim use Prohibited      Prohibited         Prohibited
Residential       permit
R2a -Suburban     Interim use Interim use     Prohibited         Prohibited
Residential (a)   permit      permit
Shoreland Overlay Prohibited  Prohibited      Prohibited         Prohibited
WS Wild and       Prohibited  Prohibited      Prohibited         Prohibited
Scenic
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Any WECS support tower or meteorological tower 130 feet or more in height
shall require an interim use permit.
 
   (F)   Setbacks; wind turbines, tower and related structures.
 Micro- Wind-Turbine – Non-Commercial Wind Turbine – Commercial WECS and Meteorological
 WECS   WECS                            Towers
             Micro- Wind-Turbine – Non-Commercial Wind Turbine – Commercial WECS and Meteorological
             WECS   WECS                            Towers
Bluffs       1,000  1,000 feet                      1,000 feet
             feet
Existing     300    750 feet                        750 feet
WECS         feet
             1.5
Neighboring  times
occupied     the    750 feet                        1,000 feet
structures   total
             height
Other
rights-of-   1.1
way          times
(railroads,  the    1.1 times the total height      1.1 times the total height
power line   total
and other    height
easements)
             1.1
Other        times
structures   the    1.1 times the total height      1.1 times the total height
             total
             height
             1.1
Property     times
lines        the    1.1 times the total height      1.5 times the total height
             total
             height
             1.1
Public       times
conservation the    1.1 times the total height      600 feet
lands        total
             height
             1.1
Road rights- times
of-way       the    1.1 times the total height      1.1 times the total height
             total
             height
Wetlands,    1.1
USFWS Types  times
III, IV and  the    1.1 times the total height      600 feet
V            total
             height
NOTES TO TABLE:
Minimum setback standards for substations and feeder lines shall be consistent with the standards for
essential services established in §
155.098 of this chapter or as established in the underlying zoning district, whichever is more
restrictive.
 
   (G)   Requirements and standards.
      (1)   Safety design standards.
         (a)   Engineering certification. For all WECS, the manufacturer’s
engineer or another qualified engineer shall certify that the turbine,
foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
         (b)   Clearance. Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least 20
feet of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
         (c)   Warnings.
            1.   For all Commercial WECS, a sign or signs shall be posted on
the tower, transformer and substation warning of high voltage. The signs must
include emergency contact information.
            2.   For all guyed towers, visible and reflective objects, such as
plastic sleeves, reflectors or tape shall be placed on the guy wire anchor
points and along the outer and innermost guy wires up to a height of ten feet
above the ground. Visible fencing around the anchor points of guy wires may be
substituted for the above referenced markers.
            3.   All towers and support structures shall be reasonably
protected against unauthorized climbing. The bottom of the structure (measured
from ground level to 14 feet above ground level) shall be designed in a manner
to preclude unauthorized climbing and/or shall be enclosed with a minimum of an
eight-foot chain link fence with a locked gate. The chain link fence will meet
the requirements of the 2012 IBC 3109.4.1.5. Depending on design, monopole
structure may be exempt for the fence requirement.
      (2)   Standards.
         (a)   Any WECS support tower or meteorological tower 130 feet or more
in height shall require an interim use permit.
         (b)   Non-commercial WECS shall have a total height of less than 200
feet.
         (c)   All wind turbines which are part of a commercial WECS shall be
installed with a tubular, monopole type tower.
         (d)   Meteorological towers must be guyed.
         (e)   All wind turbines and towers that are part of a commercial WECS
shall be white, gray, or another non-obtrusive color. Blades may be black in
order to facilitate de-icing. Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
         (f)   Lighting, including lighting intensity and frequency of strobe,
shall adhere to, but not exceed, requirements established by the Federal
Aviation Administration permits and regulations. Red strobe lights are
preferred for night-time illumination. Red pulsating incandescent lights should
be avoided.
         (g)   All signage on-site shall comply with §
155.097 of this chapter. The manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo
may be placed upon the compartment containing the electrical generator of the
WECS.
         (h)   All communications and feeder lines, equal to or less than 34.5
kV in capacity, installed as part of a WECS shall be buried.
         (i)   Solid and hazardous wastes, including, but not limited to,
crates, packaging materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as used oils and
lubricants, shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
         (j)   A WECS shall be considered a discontinued use after one year
without energy production, unless a plan is developed and submitted to the
County Zoning Administrator outlining the steps and schedule for returning the
WECS to service. All WECS and accessory facilities shall be removed to ground
level within 90 days of the discontinued use.
         (k)   Each commercial WECS shall have a decommissioning plan outlining
the anticipated means and costs of removing WECS at the end of their
serviceable life or upon becoming a discontinued use. The cost estimate shall
be made by a competent party; such as a professional engineer, a contractor
capable of decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or experience
with decommissioning. The plan shall also identify the financial resources that
will be available to pay for the decommissioning and removal of the WECS and
accessory facilities.
         (l)   Upon issuance of an interim use permit, all commercial WECS
shall notify the Environmental Quality Board Power Plant Siting Act program
staff of the project location and details on the survey form specified by the
Environmental Quality Board.
         (m)   All WECS shall comply with Minn. Rules Ch. 7030 governing noise.
         (n)   All WECS shall comply with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
standards and permits.
         (o)   All WECS shall comply with the Building Code adopted by the
state.
         (p)   Applicants for WECS shall be responsible for restoring or paying
damages to all applicable road authority sufficient to restore the roads and
bridges to preconstruction conditions.
         (q)   The applicant for a WECS shall be responsible for the immediate
repair or damage to public drainage systems stemming from the construction,
operation or maintenance of the WECS.
         (r)   Guy wires and guy wire anchors shall not be erected within
public or private easements and shall be setback a minimum of five feet from
all property lines.
         (s)   No land may be subdivided for the purpose of providing space for
any WECS unless all lot size requirements for the relevant zoning district are
met and subdivision approval is obtained.
      (3)   Interference. The applicant shall minimize or mitigate interference
with electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves or
television signals caused by any WECS. The applicant shall notify all
communication tower operators within five miles of the proposed WECS location
upon application to the County for permits. No WECS shall be constructed so as
to interfere with the county or the state’s Department of Transportation
microwave transmissions.
      (4)   Abandonment.
         (a)   At such time that a WECS is scheduled to be abandoned or
discontinued, the applicant will notify the building inspector by U.S. mail of
the proposed date of the abandonment or discontinuation of operations.
         (b)   Upon abandonment or discontinuation of use, the owner or
applicant shall physically remove any small wind energy system greater than 130
feet in height within 90 days from the date of abandonment or discontinuation
of use. This period may be extended at the request of the owner and at the
discretion of the Building Inspector. PHYSICALLY REMOVE shall include, but not
be limited to:
            1.   Removal of the wind generator, tower and all related above-
grade structures; and
            2.   Restoration of the location of the small wind energy system to
its natural condition, except that any landscaping, grading or below-grade
foundation may remain in its same condition at initiation of abandonment.
         (c)   In the event that an applicant fails to give such notice, the
system shall be considered abandoned or discontinued if the system is out-of-
service for a continuous 12-month period. After the 12 months of inoperability,
the building inspector may issue a notice of abandonment to the owner of the
small wind energy system. The owner shall have the right to respond to the
notice within 30 days from receipt of notice. After review of the information
provided by the owner, the Building Inspector shall determine if the small wind
energy system has been abandoned. If it is determined that the small wind
energy system has not been abandoned, the Building Inspector shall withdraw the
notice of abandonment and notify the owner of the withdrawal.
         (d)   If the owner fails to respond to the notice of abandonment or
if, after review by the Building Inspector, it is determined that the small
wind energy system has been abandoned or discontinued, the owner of the system
shall physically remove the system at the owner’s sole expense within 90 days
of the receipt of the notice of abandonment. If the owner fails to physically
remove the  system after the notice of abandonment procedure, the building
inspector may pursue legal action to have the small wind energy system removed
at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 155.108 SOLAR ENERGY FARMS AND SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)    Purpose. The purpose of this section is to set forth standards for
solar energy farms and solar energy systems for the county. It is the intent of
the county in adopting this section that solar energy farms are a temporary use
and interim in nature and the property be returned to its agricultural use at
the conclusion of the interim use permit for all solar energy farms.
   (B)   Definitions.
      SOLAR ENERGY FARMS. Solar energy farms are composed of multiple solar
panels on multiple mounting systems (poles or racks), and have an alternating
current (AC) rated capacity greater than 200 kilowatts AC. Solar energy farms
require an interim use permit. Solar energy farms are allowed up to eight
megawatts AC. Solar energy farms are a temporary use and interim in nature and
cannot exceed 30 years.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. Solar energy systems are any combination of solar
panels on a parcel of property with a combined energy rated capacity not to
exceed 200 kilowatts AC. Solar energy systems 40 kilowatts AC and under are
permitted as accessory uses in all zoning districts. Solar energy systems over
40 kilowatts AC and not exceeding 200 kilowatts AC in all zones except for
General Agriculture (AG) require an interim use permit.
      UTILITY INTERCONNECTION. Point where the solar energy system or solar
energy farm connects to the utility company system.
   (C)   Solar energy farms requirements and standards. Solar energy farms
shall be subject to the following performance standards and restrictions:
      (1)   Residential districts prohibited. Solar energy farms are prohibited
in residential districts.
      (2)   Height at maximum design tilt. Solar energy farms in Agricultural,
Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts may not exceed 20 feet in height at
maximum design tilt.
      (3) Location within lot. A solar energy farm must meet the primary
structure setbacks for the zoning district in which it is located. A minimum
setback distance of 100 feet is required to all adjacent primary residential
structures, public trail, park, waterfowl production areas and wildlife
management areas. Setbacks will be measured from the closest point of the
project, which shall include any perimeter fencing. The Planning Commission may
require greater setback distances.
      (4)   Land alterations. The Planning Commission shall review the
associated land alteration for a solar energy farm and issue an interim use
permit for that land alteration as part of the request for the solar energy
farms interim use permit. Excavation plans must include proposed vegetation
removal such as trees or other prominent natural vegetation and alteration of
soils. No more than three acres or 7% of the project area, whichever is
greater, of trees may be removed from any site. Under no circumstances can tree
removal be more than 50% of the project area. Limited excavation may be allowed
only where a road, berm, or other solar infrastructure, excluding panel
locations, are proposed as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Screening and vegetation. A screening barrier will be required and
maintained between the solar project and adjacent residences. It may also be
required along roadways if the Planning Commission deems it necessary.
Screening is required to be planted on the outside of the solar farms perimeter
fence where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may require additional screening between solar energy farms and
adjoining properties. Perennial vegetative cover shall be established within 60
days of the completion of the project. Once the interim use permit has been
issued the solar company and property owner are responsible for proper
vegetative maintenance. Noxious weeds are prohibited from growing on the
property. The Planning Commission may create a condition specifying the type of
vegetative cover to be used for the project, this requirement may include the
requirements stated in M.S. § 216B.1642.
      (6)   Storm water management; zoning code. Storm water management shall
meet the requirements of this chapter and the State of Minnesota.
      (7)   Erosion and sediment control; zoning code. Erosion and sediment
control shall meet the requirements of this chapter and the State of Minnesota.
      (8)   Foundations. The manufacturer's engineer or another qualified
engineer shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels are
within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions.
      (9)   Other standards and codes. All solar energy farms shall be in
compliance with any applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards,
including the State of Minnesota Uniform Building Code, as amended; the
National Electric Code and National Electric Safety Code as amended. The
current property owner is required to sign all building permit applications.
      (10)   Onsite internal power and communication lines. Internal power and
communication lines running among banks of solar panels to the point of utility
interconnection or interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground.
Exemptions may be granted by the Planning Commission in instances where shallow
bedrock, water courses, or other elements of the natural landscape interfere
with the ability to bury lines.
      (11)   Onsite external power and utility interconnection.  All grounding
transformers, the utility interconnection to the main electrical grid,
electrical meters, main service meters, protective relays, reclosers, and any
other similar electrical meter, regulator, control, or shut off device shall be
ground-mounted unless specifically permitted to be aerially mounted by the
Planning Commission. Utility poles associated with each solar energy farm shall
be limited to up to one general utility pole and one additional pole for each
permitted megawatt AC of electricity. The Planning Commission may require fewer
utility poles. Utility poles legally permitted in any road right-of-way or
which are currently existing are not included in this calculation. The proposed
placement of all utility poles and any proposed aerially mounted equipment
shall be shown in any proposed plans submitted. The Planning Commission shall
specifically approve the placement of all utility poles outside of the road
right-of-way.
      (12)   Internal service roads. All constructed internal roads will be
allowed under limited circumstances as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission for the project area. If allowed all aggregate internal service
roads will be required to have a road grade geotextile fabric below the surface
of the aggregate to allow for removal of the road to reclaim the property back
to its original state. The Planning Commission may allow for exceptions to the
reclamation standard in situations in which the property owner files an
affidavit asserting the road will have an agricultural or commercial value at
the conclusion of the solar energy farm permit.
      (13)   External roads and road access. Before a permit is issued a
written agreement by the applicable road authority must be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Department for the approval of any road right-of-way
construction. The road authority may require a separate bond or letter of
credit for the maintenance of external roads adjacent to the project area. This
bond or letter of credit may be held by the road authority or the county.
      (14)   Agreement for decommissioning and public infrastructure.
         (a)   As part of the conditions for all solar energy farms, the
Planning Commission shall require all applicants and property owners to enter
into an agreement with the county for protection from the developer and
property owner of all public infrastructure and to require security for the
ongoing maintenance of the site during the permit, for the abatement of noxious
weeds and ordinance violations, for the maintenance and protection of
beneficial storm water drainage from surrounding parcels of real property, and
for the decommissioning and reclaiming of the property.
         (b)   Prior to receiving an application for a building permit or
making any improvements to the property the applicant and property owner shall
enter into a contract in writing with the county requiring the applicant to
indemnify the county for damage to any public improvements or infrastructure at
the applicant's sole cost and in accordance with the county's specifications
and usual contract conditions.
         (c)   The agreement shall require the applicant to create an escrow
deposit or furnish an irrevocable letter of credit or a certified check as is
determined by the County Attorney, County Engineer, and County Administration.
The amount of the deposit or security is to be based upon the estimate of the
total cost to remove any infrastructure and reclaim the property to its
original condition at the conclusion of the solar energy farm. The salvage or
resale value of the infrastructure shall not be used in calculating any offset
or credit against the estimate of the total cost to remove the infrastructure
and reclaim the property to its original condition. The deposit or security
shall equal 150% of the estimate of all costs to remove any infrastructure and
reclaim the property, plus any amount deemed necessary by the County Engineer
to protect any public infrastructure during the construction or decommissioning
of this project. This amount may be reduced or increased upon approval of a
County Board resolution based upon such consideration as the size of the
project, past performance by the applicant and/or financial credibility of the
applicant, but in no case shall the amount be less than 50% of the estimate. On
request of the applicant, if evidence is presented that the described work and
improvements have been paid for, the amount of the deposit may be reduced in a
sum equal to the estimated cost of the reclamation work so completed. The
escrow or irrevocable letter of credit shall be reimbursed or reissued within
90 days in the event the county authorizes or uses any funds in the escrow to
correct or abate any violations of the interim conditional use permit, the
agreement, noxious weed regulations, or the zoning ordinance. Failure to
reimburse the escrow account or reissue the irrevocable letter of credit shall
be considered a violation of the interim condition use permit, whether listed
as a specific condition or not, and a reason for revoking the interim condition
use permit.
         (d)   The agreement shall provide that the County Board may allow an
adjoining owner of real property to receive reimbursement from the escrow
deposit or irrevocable letter of credit in the event a property owner receives
a final judgment or order from a court of competent jurisdiction finding the
solar energy farm has damaged or altered the beneficial drainage of surface or
tiled storm water discharged from adjoining real property.
      (15)   Application requirements. The following information shall be
provided to the County Planning and Zoning Department for application of an
interim use permit:
         (a)   A site plan of existing applicable conditions showing the
following:
            1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet
from the exterior boundaries.
            2.   Existing public and private roads and any easements.
            3.   Location and size of any abandoned wells and sewage treatment
systems.
            4.   Existing buildings and any impervious surface.
            5.   Topography at two-foot intervals and source of contour
interval, unless determined otherwise by the County planning and Zoning
Department.
            6.   Existing vegetation.
            7.   Waterways, watercourses, lakes and wetlands.
            8.   The 100-year flood elevation and regulatory flood protection
elevation, if available.
            9.   Floodway, flood fringe and/or Flood Plain (FP) District
boundary, if applicable.
            10.   The Shoreland District boundary, if any portion of the
project is located in a Shoreland District.
            11.   In the Shoreland District, the ordinary high water level.
            12.   In the Shoreland District, the toe and top of a bluff within
the project boundaries.
            13.   Surface water drainage patterns.
            14.   Location of existing drain tiles. When a drain tile is
located on the site it shall be avoided whenever possible. All drain tiles
located on the property must be replaced if they are found to be broken or in
need of repair.
            15.   An aerial map demonstrating the proposed solar farm complies
with all setback requirements. The map at a minimum shall include accurate
measurement rings, boxes or other survey measurements as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            16.   A certified or sworn statement by the applicant which
includes a full listing and disclosure of all materials and substances which
are included in the construction of the solar panels that will be placed on the
property. This statement will need to be reaffirmed and redisclosed at the time
the building permit application is filed.
         (b)   Site plan of proposed conditions:
            1.   Planned location and spacing of solar panels.
            2.   Planned location of access roads.
            3.   Planned location of all utility poles and underground or
overhead electric lines connecting the solar energy farms or solar energy
systems to the point of interconnection. The location of any utility poles
shall also be shown on the site plan.
            4.   Planned new electrical equipment other than at the existing
building or substation that is the connection point for the solar energy farm.
            5.   Proposed excavation plans, including erosion and sediment
control measures as required in §§
155.084 and
155.101 of this chapter.
              6.   Proposed screening plan and vegetation plan for the project
area is required.
            7.   Proposed storm water management controls, with grading,
drainage, storm water controls and erosion controls designed by a licensed
engineer. Any requirements of a local municipality, state or federal agency
shall be incorporated in the plans submitted. All plans that are submitted must
be reviewed and accepted by the Wright Soil and Water Conservation District
prior to an application being submitted and deemed complete.
            8.   The identification and mapping of new drain tile on site.
            9.   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the
proposed solar energy farm or solar energy systems and its relationship to
structures on adjacent lots (if any) unless determined otherwise by the County
Planning and Zoning Department.
         (c)   Specifications and proposed installation methods for all planned
major equipment, including solar panels, mounting systems and foundations for
poles or racks.
         (d)   The planned number of panels to be installed.
         (e)   A description of the method of connecting the array to the
utility interconnection.
         (f)   A copy of the submitted interconnection application with the
local electric utility or a written explanation outlining why an
interconnection application is not necessary. The proposed utility
interconnection design plan must also accompany the application for the interim
use permit.
         (g)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that the
infrastructure improvements are properly removed after their useful life.
Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event they are not in use for
12 consecutive months. The plan shall include provisions for removal of all
structures and foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation and a plan
describing the financial resources that will be available to fully decommission
the site The decommissioning plan shall also include a statement that any
unused or obsolete equipment shall be removed by the property owner and/or
applicant. Said plan shall be signed by the applicant and the property owner
and shall be attached to and become part of the permit. The applicant and
property owner shall enter into an agreement and provide security for the
decommissioning as outlined in §
155.108(C)(14).
      (16)   Any interim use permit issued under this section for solar energy
farms is temporary and interim in nature. The interim use permit for solar
energy farms shall expire at the same time the solar energy farm lease expires,
but in no case shall exceed 30 years. A new interim use permit can be applied
for and the county may issue a new interim use permit for an existing solar
energy farms under the terms of §
155.031 of this chapter. The Planning Commission may waive the expiration
requirement for solar energy farms located on property owned by public
utilities and other unique owner operated facilities.
      (17)   The final utility interconnection design and approval must be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department before the building permit can
be issued.
      (18)   Solar farm setback distances. The operational area(s), including
fencing, solar arrays, and any other infrastructure of a solar energy farm,
shall be located a minimum distance of two miles from any other solar array
over 200 kilowatts AC whether originally permitted by the county, a state or
federal regulatory agency, or any other municipality in the county. Calculating
the two-mile distance from another solar array as provided in this section
shall be measured by the shortest line from any of the infrastructure, solar
arrays, or fencing of the proposed solar energy farm to the nearest point of
the other solar array in excess of 200 kilowatts AC.
   (D)   Solar energy systems requirements and standards.
      (1)   Accessory building limit. Solar energy systems, either roof or
ground-mounted, do not count as an accessory building for the purpose of limits
on accessory buildings.
      (2)   Height. Solar energy systems are subject to the following height
requirements:
            (a)   Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed the maximum allowed height in any zoning district.
             (b)   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
15 feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt in Residential Zoning Districts
and may be allowed up to 20 feet in other zoning districts.
      (3)   Location within lot. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district it is located within and will be
measured from the closest point at maximum orientation. If attached to the
primary structure, the solar energy systems must meet the setbacks for the
primary structure.
      (4)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
must have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing.
      (5)   Compliance with state electric code. All Solar Energy Systems shall
comply with the Minnesota State Electric Code.
      (6)   Utility notification. No solar energy system shall be installed
until evidence has been given to the County Planning and Zoning Department that
the owner has notified the utility company of the customer's intent to install
an interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems are exempt from
this requirement.
      (7)   Interim use permit.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the associated land
alteration for a solar energy system and issue an interim use permit for that
land alteration as part of the request for the solar energy farms interim use
permit. Excavation plans must include proposed vegetation removal such as trees
or other prominent natural vegetation. No more than three acres or 7% of the
project area, whichever is greater, of trees may be removed from any site.
Under no circumstances can tree removal be more than 50% of the project area.
Limited excavation may be allowed only where a road, berm, or other solar
infrastructure, excluding panel locations, are proposed as deemed necessary by
the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Screening barrier may be required.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may require standards similar to solar
energy farms as deemed necessary.
         (d)   Interim use permits for solar energy systems do not expire
unless the solar energy system is removed or unless terms are violated.
(Ord. passed 7-28-2015; Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 16-7, passed 11-1-2016;
Ord. 18-2, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 18-4, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 21-3, passed 4-
27-2021; Ord. 21-5, passed 1-18-2022; Ord. 21-5A, passed 1-18-2022; Ord. 23-1,
passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 23-2, passed 5-16-2023)
§ 155.109 COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL TOURISM.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is adopted for the purpose of:
      (1)   Preserving the county's agricultural and rural heritage and
landscapes.
      (2)   Enhancing the county's appeal to visitors who are drawn to its
rural and agricultural environment.
      (3)   Providing opportunities for new economic growth through commercial
agricultural tourism.
      (4)   Allowing for commercial agricultural tourism that does not conflict
with permitted agricultural operations and developed residential areas.
   (B)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to all commercial
agricultural tourism uses.
      (1)   Commercial agricultural tourism shall be located on a parcel of at
least ten acres in size which has a residence or entitlement.
      (2)   Commercial agricultural tourism shall be shown to have a unique or
demonstrable relationship with the county and be correlated to agricultural and
rural features in accordance with the above stated purposes.
      (3)   Large scale events and gatherings held inside a building must be
associated with an outdoor agricultural or rural outdoor activity, or be
seasonal or part-time in nature. Any associated food must be catered. The
Planning Commission may allow for limited food preparation provided it meets
the underlying intent of the commercial agricultural tourism use. Alcohol must
be catered.
      (4)   Commercial agricultural tourism shall require an interim use permit
in accord with §
155.031 of the county Zoning Ordinance and must comply with the county land use
plan.
   (C)   Conditions. As part of any interim use permit the Planning Commission
shall adopt conditions which address the following criteria:
      (1)   Must not create an excessive demand upon existing services or
amenities.
      (2)   Must be screened or able to be screened adequately, or are
sufficiently separated from adjacent residences to prevent negative impacts to
nearby properties.
      (3)   Must have an appearance that is consistent and compatible with the
surrounding area and land uses.
      (4)   Must not cause traffic hazards or undue congestion.
      (5)   Must not negatively impact surrounding residences and neighbors by
the intrusion of noise, glare, odor, or other adverse effects.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 5--2016; Ord. 16-2, passed ---; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.110 PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to all public schools:
      (1)   The school is supported in whole or in part with funds from the
State of Minnesota;
      (2)   The school is regulated or licensed by the Commissioner of
Education;
      (3)   The school is located on a parcel of land that is at least 80 acres
in size, has lake shoreline features, and has a significant portion of its land
that is wooded or wetland;
      (4)   Has an enrollment capacity of 150 pupils or less;
      (5)   Has as an essential part of its mission, purpose, or vision an
educational component that is significantly related to the environment or
nature;
      (6)   Is an accessory use to an existing non-profit organization that
provides camp and education experiences.
   (B)   Conditions. As part of any interim use permit the Planning Commission
shall adopt conditions which address the following criteria:
      (1)   Must not create an excessive demand upon existing services or
amenities.
      (2)   Must be screened or able to be screened adequately, or are
sufficiently separated from adjacent residences to prevent negative impacts to
nearby properties.
      (3)   Must have an appearance that is consistent and compatible with the
surrounding area and land uses.
      (4)   Must not cause traffic hazards or undue congestion.
      (5)   Must not negatively impact surrounding residences and neighbors by
the intrusion of noise, glare, odor, or other adverse effects
(Ord. 17-3, passed ---; Ord. 18-6, passed 10-23-2018; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 155.111 TREATMENT AND RECOVERY FACILITIES.
   The following performance standards apply to all treatment and recovery
uses:
   (A)   The facility shall be located on a parcel of land that includes at
least 70 contiguous acres.
   (B)   The facility shall include at least 25,000 square feet of total floor
area in one or more buildings that may be attached or detached and may contain
residential structures such as dwelling units, rooming units, and dormitory
space. It may also include communal spaces such as communal kitchen and dining
areas, classrooms, offices, chapels, recreation space and similar areas. The
number of residential structures may not exceed the number of residences on the
land as allowed by the underlying zoning district but may include the number
that would be allowed by transferring entitlements from contiguous property as
defined in § 155.048 of this chapter. For as long as the treatment and recovery
use operates, there shall be no other residential buildings, nor subdivisions
allowed on the land designated for the treatment and recovery use.
   (C)   Clients may reside 24 hours per day under the care and supervision of
a chemical dependency treatment or recovery program. The program must be
overseen by a staff member with a state-issued professional license in mental
health or chemical dependency.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit a management plan for the facility and a
floor plan showing sleeping areas, communal areas, emergency exits, bathrooms
and staff living quarters.
   (E)   Parking requirements shall be included in the terms of the interim use
permit but shall not be less than four spaces for each building. All parking
areas must comply with the performance standards for parking unless otherwise
stated by the Planning Commission. Each residential building shall be
accessible to emergency service vehicles by path or private road, but internal
improved streets are not required.
(Ord. 20-1, passed 12-29-2020; Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.112 CANNABIS ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The county has the authority to adopt this
section within the land use jurisdiction of Wright County pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of
the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis business provided
that such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation of
cannabis businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, as may be amended from time to time, regarding
the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower- potency hemp edible retail businesses.
         (c)   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as may be amended from time to time,
regarding the use of cannabis in public places.
         (d)   M.S. § 462.357, as may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
         (e)   M.S. Ch. 394, as may be amended from time to time, the planning
and zoning enabling legislation in Minnesota Statutes.
      (2)   Purpose.
         (a)   This section is adopted in the public interest to promote
appropriate and lawful land use practices for the county that will mitigate
threats present to the general public regarding cannabis-related business. The
county recognizes the risks that unintended access to cannabis products may
present to the health, welfare, and safety of the public, especially youth.
         (b)   This section is intended to provide space for the location of
cannabis- oriented businesses in appropriately zoned districts within the land
use jurisdiction of the county while separating these cannabis-related
businesses from areas in which children and other persons, who may be
negatively affected by these businesses, frequent.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined in this section, words or
phrases contained in M.S. § 342.01, as may be amended from time to time, and
the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts shall have the same meaning
in this section. For the purpose of this section, and in addition to the
provision of §
155.003, the following definitions shall apply.
      (1)   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      (2)   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail
location(s) of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement,
microbusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, medical combination
businesses operating a retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible
retailers.
      (3)   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      (4)   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      (5)   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01 subd. 50,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (6)   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis
Management, referred to as "OCM" in this section.
      (7)   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation,
refreshment, entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind,
whether licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges,
advantages or accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made
available to the public.
      (8)   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis
business license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17, as may be
amended from time to time.
      (9)   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk;
any enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not
limited to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment;
hospitals; nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common
areas of rental apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
      (10)   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462,
subd. 23, as may be amended from time to time.
      (11)   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the county
to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
      (12)   SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05, as may be
amended from time to time, or a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting
requirements under M.S. § 120A.24, as may be amended from time to time.
      (13)   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of
Minnesota's Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   (C)   Zoning district requirements. The cultivation, manufacturing,
wholesale, and sale of cannabis and cannabis-related products shall be
permitted as an interim use, as regulated in §
155.031, as follows:
      (1)   General Industry (I-1) Zoning District.
         (a)   Cannabis cultivation.
         (b)   Cannabis manufacturing.
         (c)   Hemp manufacturing.
         (d)   Cannabis wholesaling.
         (e)   Cannabis retail.
         (f)   Cannabis transportation.
         (g)   Cannabis delivery.
      (2)   Highway Business (B-1) Zoning District.
         (a)   Cannabis retail.
         (b)   Cannabis transportation.
         (c)   Cannabis delivery.
      (3)   General Business (B-2) Zoning District.
         (a)   Cannabis retail.
         (b)   Cannabis transportation.
         (c)   Cannabis delivery.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Setbacks. In addition to the building and use setbacks list within
the appropriate zoning districts, cannabis-related businesses are subject to
the following setbacks as measured from the property boundary containing the
following:
         (a)   One thousand feet from any school.
         (b)   Five hundred feet from a daycare.
         (c)   Five hundred feet from a residential treatment facility.
         (d)   Five hundred feet from a park, playground, or athletic field.
         (e)   Five hundred feet from another cannabis retail business.
      (2)   Cannabis cultivation. Cannabis cultivation is subject to the
following standards and requirements.
         (a)   Cultivation and operations plan. A business licensed or
authorized to cultivate cannabis must prepare, maintain, and execute an
operating plan and a cultivation plan, which must include but is not limited
to:
            1.   Site plan. Site plan detailing size and layout of the
facility.
            2.   Security. Provisions for fencing, lighting, personnel, and
video monitoring.
            3.   Wastewater and utilities plan. Plans for wastewater, waste
disposal; utilities including water and electricity, water usage and recycling.
            4.   Solid waste. A plan to destroy all cannabis plant material and
cannabis byproduct to render it unusable. Waste material must be stored in a
secure location.
            5.   Pest management. A pest management protocol that incorporates
integrated pest management principles to control or prevent the introduction of
pests to the cultivation site.
            6.   Ventilation and filtration. In accordance with M.S. § 342.24,
subd. 4, as may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Manufacturing and wholesale. The manufacturing and wholesale of
cannabis is subject to the following standards and requirements.
         (a)   Facility and operations plan. A business licensed or authorized
to manufacture or wholesale cannabis and cannabis-related products must
prepare, maintain, and execute a facility and operations plan, which must
include but is not limited to:
            1.   Site plan. Site plan detailing size and layout of the
facility, including size and layout of the manufacturing facility.
            2.   Security. Provisions for fencing, lighting, personnel, and
video monitoring.
            3.   Waste water and utilities plan. Plans for wastewater (in
accordance with M.S. § 342.28, subd. 3, waste disposal; utilities including
water and electricity, water usage and recycling.
            4.   Solid waste. A plan to destroy all cannabis plant material and
cannabis byproduct to render it unusable. Waste material must be stored in a
secure location.
            5.   Ventilation and filtration. In accordance with M.S. § 342.24,
subd. 4, as may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Retail. The retail sales of cannabis and related cannabis products
is subject to the following standards and requirements.
         (a)   Business and operations plan. A retail business licensed or
authorized to sell cannabis and cannabis-related products must prepare,
maintain, and execute a business plan, which must include but is not limited
to:
            1.   Hours of operation. Hours of operations shall be limited to
10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday and 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.,
Sunday.
            2.   Site plan. A site plan detailing the size and layout of the
facility, including size and layout of the retail facility.
            3.   Ventilation and filtration. Must be in accordance with M.S. §
342.24, subd. 4, as may be amended from time to time.
            4.   Building conditions. Must be in accordance with M.S. § 342.27,
subd. 8, as may be amended from time to time.
            5.   Security. Must be in accordance with M.S. § 342.27, subd. 9,
as may be amended from time to time.
            6.   Lighting. Must be in accordance with M.S. § 342.27, subd. 10,
as may be amended from time to time.
            7.   Deliveries. Must be in accordance with M.S. § 342.27, subd.
11, as may be amended from time to time.
            8.   Wastewater. Cannabis mezzobusinesses must comply with M.S. §
342.28, subd. 3, as may be amended from time to time.
            9.   Solid Waste. A plan to destroy all cannabis plant material and
cannabis byproduct to render it unusable. Waste material must be stored in a
secure location.
      (5)   Cannabis cultivation, manufacturing and wholesale, and retail
operations are not an agricultural, horticultural or commercial outdoor
recreational use.
   (E)   Revocation of state license. Any interim use permit granted under the
provisions of this section shall be immediately revoked upon revocation of any
state-issued license to operate. Any request to renew the operation will
require a new interim use permit.
(Ord. 24-7, passed 12-3-2024)
ADULT USES
§ 155.135 ADULT USES OVERLAY DISTRICT (AU).
   (A)   Purpose. The major purposes of the Adult Uses Overlay District and the
adult uses licensing and performance standards are:
      (1)   To provide space for the location of sexually oriented businesses
in appropriately zoned districts within the land use jurisdiction of the
county;
      (2)   To separate sexually oriented businesses from areas in which
children and other persons who are particularly vulnerable to crime may be
expected to frequent;
      (3)   To minimize the negative impact of traffic, glare and noise
generated by the normal operation of sexually oriented businesses on adjacent
properties; and
      (4)   To minimize any potential negative impact on the value and
marketability of land adjacent to sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section and §
155.136 of this chapter, and in addition to the provisions of §
155.003 of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
      (1)   ADULT USES. Adult uses include adult bookstores, adult motion
picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors,
adult steam room/bathhouse facilities, adult enterprises, businesses or places
open to some or all members of the public at or in which there is an emphasis
on the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas which are capable of being seen by
members of the public.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORES. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape or motion picture film if a substantial or
significant portion of such items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas or the barter, rental or sale of instruments,
devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in connection with specified
sexual activities. “Substantial or significant portion of items”, for purposes
of this chapter, shall mean more than 15% of usable floor area.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age, or if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORTS CLUB. A health/sports club which excludes minor
by reason of age, or if such club is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR. A massage parlor which restricts minors by
reason of age, or which provides the service of massage, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      (8)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if such
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      (9)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if such building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (10)   NUDE or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
            1.   Human genitals;
            2.   Pubic region;
            3.   Buttocks; and
            4.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
complete and opaquely covered.
      (11)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast.
   (C)   Permitted uses. All the activities defined in division (B) above, to
the extent not otherwise restricted by law.
   (D)   The district area. The Adult Uses Overlay District shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the county shown on the zoning maps and
designated General Industry (I-1), Highway Business (B-1) and General Business
(B-2) as of 12-31-2004. Any rezoning for the expansion of the I-1, B-1 or B-
2 Districts after 12-31-2004, shall not expand the area of the Adult Uses
Overlay District, unless that intent is expressly made in the amending
ordinance.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. Adult uses shall not be established or maintained as
permitted, conditional, interim, or accessory uses in any area other than those
described and designated in the Adult Uses Overlay District.
   (F)   Adult use distance requirements.
      (1)   No adult use shall be located within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   Any area zoned R-1, R-2, R-2a or R-3;
         (b)   Any school, public or private, that meets the definition in M.S.
§ 120A.05, subd. 9, 11, 13 and 17, as they may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   Any church, as defined in §
155.003(B) of this chapter;
         (d)   Any day care facility that provides for the periodic care of
four or more children, while parents or guardians are absent, licensed by the
county or the state; or, any residential or non-residential program, as defined
in M.S. § 245A.02, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (e)   Any hotel or motel; and
         (f)   Any public park.
      (2)   Distances shall be measured from the nearest point of the property
line where the adult use establishment is located to the nearest property line
of one of the above listed facilities, or to the nearest boundary of the
indicated residential district, whichever is greatest.
   (G)   Amortization of non-conforming uses. Adult uses legally established
prior to the enactment of this chapter provision shall be permitted and
regulated as non-conforming uses until 12-31-2007 at which time said uses shall
be unlawful.
   (H)   Additional requirements and restrictions.
      (1)   Additional requirements. The requirements and standards of this
section shall apply to all adult uses in the Adult Overlay Zoning District.
These requirements and standards are in addition to those of the underlying I-
1, B-1 and B-2 Zoning Districts. Minimum setbacks from roads, building bulk
limitations, as well as minimum lot and building dimensions shall be determined
by referring to the specific standards set forth in the underlying zoning
district. In the event of a conflict between provisions listed in this section
and those listed in other appropriate sections of this chapter, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.
      (2)   Alcohol. Alcoholic beverages shall not be provided, sold, purchased
or consumed at any adult establishment where adult uses exist, as defined in
division (B) above, nor within 500 feet of the building or structure housing
said adult use.
      (3)   Licensing. The licensing provisions of §
155.136 of this chapter apply to adult uses as specified.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 155.136 ADULT USES LICENSING AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Hours of operation. No adult uses may be open to the public between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   Performance standards for adult cabarets.
      (1)   No owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit or
allow any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude. Nude shall be
applied in this section as it is defined at §
155.135 of this chapter.
      (2)   No dancer, live entertainer, performer, patron or any other person
shall be nude in an adult cabaret.
      (3)   The owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret shall provide
the following information to the county concerning any persons who dance or
perform live entertainment at the adult cabaret: the persons full name
including all previously used legal names, home address, home telephone number,
date of birth and any presently or previously used aliases.
      (4)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall be under 18 years
old.
      (5)   All dancing or live entertainment shall occur on a platform
intended for that purpose and which is raised at least two feet from the level
of the floor.
      (6)   No dancer or performer shall perform any dance or live
entertainment closer than ten feet to any patron.
      (7)   No dancer or performer shall fondle or caress any patron and no
patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
      (8)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or
performer.
      (9)   No dancer or performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
   (C)   License required.
      (1)   No person shall own or operate an adult use establishment without
having first secured a license as provided for in this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this code to the contrary, the procedures set forth in
this section establish the exclusive method for obtaining an adult
establishment license.
      (2)   The application for an adult use establishment license shall be
submitted on a form provided by the county and shall include:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
name, residence, phone number and birth date of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone
numbers and birth dates of all those persons holding more than 5% of the issued
and outstanding stock of the corporation;
         (b)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the operator
and manager of such operation, if different from the owners;
         (c)   The address and legal description of the premises where the
adult establishment is to be located;
         (d)   A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony
convictions relating to sex offenses, obscenity or the operation of an adult
establishment or adult business by the applicant, operator or manager and
whether or not the applicant, operator or manager has ever applied for or held
a license to operate a similar type of business in other communities. In the
case of a corporation, a statement detailing any felony convictions by the
owners of more than five percent of the issued and outstanding stock of the
corporation, and whether or not those owners have ever applied for or held a
license to operate a similar type of business in other communities;
         (e)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
         (f)   The hours of operation;
         (g)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
         (h)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal
operations and activities.
      (3)   If an application form is not available from the county, on request
at the time of applying, the applicant may provide the information in letter
form so long as it is complete.
   (D)   License fee.
      (1)   An annual license fee for an adult establishment shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the County Board. Commencing with the enactment
of this chapter section, the fee shall be as specified herein.
      (2)   Each application for a license shall be submitted to the County
Sheriff, and payment made to the county. Each application for a license shall
be accompanied by payment in full of the required license fee. Upon rejection
of any application for a license, the county shall refund the license fee.
      (3)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of one year; except that, if a
portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license
may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rated fee. In computing
such fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
      (4)   No part of the fee paid by any license shall be refunded; except
that, pro rata portion of the fee shall be refunded in the following instances
upon application to the County Zoning Administrator within 30 days before the
expiration of the license:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   The licensee’s illness;
         (c)   The licensee’s death; or
         (d)   A change in the legal status making unlawful for licensed
business to continue.
      (5)   Each application shall contain a provision on the application in
bold print indicating that any withholding of information or the providing of
false or misleading information will be grounds for denial or revocation of a
license. Any changes in the information provided on the application or provided
during the investigation shall be brought to the attention of the County Board
by the applicant(s) or licensee. If said changes take place during the
investigation, said data shall be provided to the Sheriff’s Department or the
County Board in writing. Failure to report said changes by the applicant(s) or
the licensee may result in a denial or revocation of a license.
   (E)   Investigative fee.
      (1)   Upon applying for the license, an investigative fee shall be
required for each application submitted to the county. The investigative fee
amount shall be set from time to time by resolution of the County Board.
Commencing with the enactment of this chapter section, the fee shall be as
specified herein.
      (2)   If it appears that the investigative costs will exceed the amount
set forth herein, the Sheriff or the County Zoning Administrator shall notify
the applicant and give the applicant an estimate of costs. The applicant shall
either make an additional deposit equal to the difference or shall withdraw the
application. If the additional deposit is not paid within 14 days, the
application shall be deemed withdrawn.
      (3)   If the costs of administration, issuance and investigation are less
than the additional deposit, the balance shall be refunded upon the issuance or
denial of the license. No license shall be issued until the applicant has paid
the entire cost of administration, including required license fees and
investigative fees.
   (F)   Granting of license.
      (1)   The County Board, or such persons as they shall designate, shall
complete their investigation within 45 days after the Board receives a complete
application and all license and investigative fees.
      (2)   If the application is for a renewal, the applicant shall be allowed
to continue business until the Board has determined to renew or refuse to renew
a license.
      (3)   If after such investigation, it appears that the applicant and the
place proposed for the business are eligible for a license under the criteria
set forth in this section, then the license shall be issued by the County Board
within the requirements of M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (4)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
premise without the approval of the County Board. If the licensee is a
partnership or a corporation, a change in the identity of the principals of the
partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license. All adult
establishments existing at the time of the adoption of this section shall be
required to obtain an annual license.
   (G)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to or held
by any person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Who is overdue or whose spouse is overdue in their payment to any
unit of government for taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against them or
imposed upon them;
      (3)   Who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted of a
gross misdemeanor or felony relating to sex offenses, obscenity offenses or
adult establishments in any jurisdiction within the past five years;
      (4)   Who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted of a
misdemeanor under state law or local ordinance, or of violating any equivalent
law of this state relating to sex offenses, obscenity offenses or adult
establishments within the past three years;
      (5)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued;
      (6)   Who is residing with a person who has been denied a license by the
county or any other state municipal corporation to operate an adult use, or
residing with a person whose license to operate an adult use has been suspended
or revoked within the preceding 12 months; and/or
      (7)   Who has not paid the license and investigative fees required by
this section.
   (H)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where
the applicant or any of its officers, agents or employees has been convicted of
a violation of this section, or where any license hereunder has been revoked
for cause, until one year has elapsed after such conviction or revocation.
      (2)   No license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in full
compliance with all the provisions of this chapter, the Building Code, the Fire
Code, the county’s health regulations and all provisions of state and federal
law.
   (I)   Conditions of license. Every license shall be granted subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   All the provisions of this section shall be followed, and all
applicable sections of this chapter, the Building Code, the Fire Code, the
county’s health regulations and other specific provisions of county, state and
federal law.
      (2)   No minor shall be permitted on the licensed premises.
      (3)   Any designated inspection officer of the county shall have the
right to enter, inspect and search the premises of a licensee during business
hours.
      (4)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of their place
of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
      (5)   No adult goods or material services shall be offered, sold,
transferred, conveyed, given, displayed or bartered to any minor.
   (J)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and is subject to all the applicable provisions of §
155.999 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall be a basis for the suspension
or revocation of any license granted hereunder. In the event that the County
Board proposes to revoke or suspend the license, the licensee shall be notified
in writing of the basis for such proposed revocation or suspension. The Board
shall hold a hearing for the purpose of determining whether to revoke or
suspend the license, which hearing shall be within 30 days of the date of the
notice.
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners shall determine whether to
suspend or revoke a license within 30 days after the close of the hearing or
within 60 days of the date of the notice, whichever is sooner, and shall notify
the licensee of its decision within that period.
   (K)   Right of appeal.
      (1)   In the event that the Ccounty Board determines to suspend, or
revoke a license, such suspension or revocation shall not be effective until 15
days after notification of the decision to the licensee. If, within that 15
days, the licensee files and serves an action in state or federal court
challenging the Board’s action, then the suspension or revocation shall be
stayed until the conclusion of such action.
      (2)   If the County Board determines not to renew a license, the licensee
may continue its business for 15 days after receiving notice of such non-
renewal. If the licensee files and serves an action in state or federal court
within that 15 days for the purpose of determining whether the county acted
properly, the licensee may continue in business until the conclusion of the
action.
      (3)   If the County Board decides not to grant a license to an applicant,
then the applicant may commence an action in state or federal court within 15
days for the purpose of determining whether the county acted properly. The
applicant shall not commence doing business unless the action is concluded in
its favor.
      (4)   Additionally, any taxpayer or citizen may proceed with any action
provided for in §
155.999 of this chapter.
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this
chapter, the County Board, or any member thereof, in addition to other
remedies, may request the County Attorney to institute appropriate actions or
proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violations, or
threatened violations.
      (2)   Any taxpayer or taxpayers of the county may institute mandamus
proceedings in the District Court to compel specific performance by the proper
official or officials of any duty required by this chapter.
      (3)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who shall violate any
of the provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions
hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine and/or by imprisonment as
set forth in M.S. § 609.03, as it may be amended from time to time. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who aids, abets,
counsels or assists another in the commission of any of the acts prescribed in
division (A)(3) above, whether acting as an employee, servant, agent or
otherwise, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any property owner who permits any
person, firm, corporation or other entity to commit any of the acts prescribed
in division (A)(3) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (5)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the violation
of the official control. In the case of violations of the Floodplain Overlay
District (§
155.056 of this chapter), as soon as is reasonably possible, this information
will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural Resources’ and
Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with the community’s
plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted. If the construction or development is already completed,
then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy
of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure unless the use
of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      (8)   All permits, variances, interim use permits, and conditional use
permits issued on the basis of approved plans and applications authorize only
the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Any use,
arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
      (9)   Applications for any permit may be denied by the Zoning
Administrator if the land upon which the permit application is made is subject
to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   A non-conforming sewage treatment or disposal system exists on
the property; this requirement is mandated in shoreland areas;
         (b)   The property is part of a subdivision or conveyance which does
not comply with the provisions of this chapter or Ch. 154 of this code of
ordinances; or
         (c)   A nuisance, as specified within §
155.088 of this chapter, exists on the property.
      (10)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with a
written statement setting forth with reasons for said denial and the actions
necessary to correct the problem. The applicant may appeal said denial to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Recording conveyances.
      (1)   A copy of all instruments which convey real estate where the land
lies within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be submitted by the County
Recorder to the Zoning Administrator for review after recording pursuant to
M.S. § 394.37, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The following
conveyances need not, however, be submitted.
         (a)   The re-conveyance of a lot of record, as defined herein.
         (b)   The conveyance of any tract which does not involve or result in
the subdivision of any existing tract.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall examine those instruments of
conveyance submitted by the County Recorder to determine whether the conveyance
complies with this chapter. If the conveyance does not comply with this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the parties to the conveyance of
the violation or potential violation and may institute appropriate action to
enforce compliance. Failure of the Zoning Administrator to provide such notice
shall not be construed to indicate approval of any conveyance.
   (C)   Application to county personnel. The failure of any officer or
employee of the county to perform any official duty imposed by this chapter
shall not subject the officer or employee to a penalty imposed for violation
unless a penalty is specifically provided for such failure.
   (D)   Notice of violation. The county shall provide a written notice to the
property owner or to any person responsible for such violation, identifying the
property in question, indicating the nature of the violation, and ordering the
action necessary to correct it, including a reasonable time period to remedy
the violation. Additional written notices may be provided at the discretion of
the enforcement official or the Zoning Administrator. Where the violation
involves work being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator may order the work stopped. No further work shall be undertaken
while a stop-work order is in effect. Failure to comply with a stop-work order
is a crime.
   (E)   Enforcement without notice. Whenever the county finds that an
emergency exists in relation to the enforcement of the provision of this
chapter which requires immediate action to protect the health, safety or
welfare of occupants of any structure, or the public, the county may seek
immediate enforcement without prior written notice, notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Conditional use permit or interim use permit revocation.
      (1)   In general. The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to
recommend revocation of a conditional use permit or interim use permit to the
Planning Commission when the Zoning Administrator has determined that the terms
of such approval have been violated, subject to divisions (D) and (E) above.
      (2)   Revocation hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing to determine whether there has been a violation of the conditional use
permit or interim use permit and whether the conditional use permit or interim
use permit shall be revoked or amended. Not less than ten days before such
public hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall mail notice of the hearing to
any person responsible for such violation, the owner(s) of record of the
subject property, and all other person and entities as required in §
155.029(C)(3). The failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners,
or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona
fide attempt to comply with this section has been made.
(Ord. 23-1, passed 5-2-2023; Ord. 23-4, passed 12-19-2023)
CHAPTER 156: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose and authority
   
156.002   Policy
   
156.003   Definitions
   
156.004   Department powers and duties
   
156.005   Boundaries of solid waste management area
   
156.006   Highest standards prevail
   
156.007   Jurisdiction of the solid waste management plan
   
156.008   Planning and zoning approval
   
156.009   Indemnification
   
156.010   No consent
   
156.011   False information
   
156.012   Data privacy
Collection and Transportation of Solid Waste
   
156.025   License required
   
156.026   License requirements
   
156.027   Reporting required
   
156.028   Equipment and operation requirements
   
156.029   Insurance requirements
   
156.030   Waste deposit disclosure
   
156.031   Mandatory collection of recyclables
Solid Waste Landfills
   
156.045   Location of facility
   
156.046   General requirements
   
156.047   Operating procedures
   
156.048   Additional requirements for sanitary landfills
Transfer Stations
   
156.060   Operational requirements
Composting Facilities
   
156.070   Operational requirements
   
156.071   Additional requirements for yard waste composting facilities
   
156.072   Backyard compost sites
Existing Non-Conforming Sites or Facilities
   
156.085   Existing non-conforming sites or facilities
Abatement, Disposal, and Storage of Waste on Real Property
   
156.095   Solid waste storage
   
156.096   Anti-scavenging
   
156.097   Burning
   
156.098   Demolition waste
   
156.099   Construction debris
   
156.100   Major appliances
   
156.101   Motor vehicles and machinery
   
156.102   Waste tires
   
156.103   Dumping
Inspections, Violations and Hearings
   
156.115   Inspections
   
156.116   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   An ordinance establishing standards and procedures governing solid waste
management; establishing solid waste management charges and programs; requiring
licenses and license fees; assure that all individuals are both informed and
responsible for their actions regarding solid waste; establishing penalties for
lack of compliance; all in order to promote the health, welfare and safety of
the public, and to protect the environment. This chapter is enacted pursuant to
M.S. Ch. 400, 145A, 115, 115A, 375, 561, 609.74, and 116, as they may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.002 POLICY.
   The policy of Wright County is to provide for the management of solid waste
in a manner that will protect the public health, welfare and safety, prevent
the spread of disease, prevent the creation of nuisances, conserve natural
resources, and protect the state’s water, air and land resources. It is also
the policy of the county to conform to the purposes outlined in M.S. § 115A.02,
as it may be amended from time to time, and to establish and implement a county
solid waste management plan pursuant to M.S. § 115A.46, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.003 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular; the
words “shall” and “must” are mandatory and the words “may” and “should”
permissive. When used in this chapter the following terms shall have the
meaning given to them.
   ACCEPTABLE WASTE. Solid waste which is accepted and managed or disposed of
at a solid waste facility.
   AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, its agent, or
representative.
   ASH. The residue resulting from the processing combustion of solid waste,
including fly ash and bottom ash and spent reagent and moisture.
   BACKYARD COMPOST SITE. A site used to compost food scraps, garden wastes,
weeds, lawn cuttings, leaves, and prunings from a single-family household.
   CERTIFICATE OF NEED or CON. An issuance from the State of Minnesota to
certify needed disposal capacity.
   CITATION. An order issued by the MPCA, county, law enforcement officers, or
department to appear before a judge on a given date to defend against a stated
charge, such as an ordinance violation.
   CITY. A statutory or home rule charter city or town located within the
county.
   COLLECTION or COLLECTS. The aggregation of waste from the place at which it
is generated and includes all activities up to the time the waste is delivered
to a solid waste facility.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any permanent or temporary building used for other than
residential purposes.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person who owns, operates, or leases vehicles for the
purpose of contracting to collect or transport solid waste or source separated
materials from residential, commercial or industrial property.
   COMPOST or COMPOSTING. The controlled biological decomposition and
management of selected solid waste to produce an innocuous, humus-like
material, which can be used as a soil conditioner.
   COMPOSTABLE BAG. Either a paper or plastic bag that meets the American
Society for Testing Materials Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics
(06400). Each plastic bag shall be labeled to reflect that it meets the
standard.
   COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL. Any material that is primarily organic and can be
decomposed through biological activity.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A site or facility used to compost or co-compost solid
waste including all structures or processing equipment used to control
drainage, collect and treat leachate, and storage areas for the incoming waste,
the final product, and residuals resulting from the composting process.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials, packaging, and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling, and repair.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE. A place where the erection of buildings, roads or other
improvements to real property is occurring.
   CORRECTIVE ACTIONS. The actions, including remedial actions that need to be
performed by a person to correct the conditions on the property that are in
violation of this chapter.
   COUNTY. Wright County, Minnesota.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Wright County Board of Commissioners.
   CURBSIDE COLLECTION. A mixed municipal solid waste, yard waste, and/or
recyclable materials collection system whereby the generators set solid waste
containers at the curb adjacent to a roadway or, where this is not practical,
in locations easily accessible for collection by a hauler.
   DEMOLITION LANDFILL. A solid waste landfill that is used for the disposal of
demolition waste.
   DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting from construction, remodeling,
repair, erection and demolition of buildings, roads and other artificial
structures, including: concrete, brick, bituminous concrete, untreated wood,
masonry, glass, trees, rock, plastic building parts, plumbing fixtures, roofing
materials, wallboard, and built-in cabinetry. Demolition waste does not
include: asbestos waste; auto glass; wood treated with chemical preservatives;
furniture; lighting equipment; vermiculite; contaminated  soil; firebrick; food
waste; machinery; engine parts; liquid paints; paint thinners or solvents;
varnishes; street sweepings; tar; carpet/padding if not affixed to a structure;
mattresses; adhesives, caulking, sealants and applicators, brushes, containers,
tubes, filters contaminated with these materials; sandblasting materials;
agricultural chemicals or containers (including empty pesticide, herbicide, and
insecticide containers); chemical containers; animal carcasses, parts, or
rendering and slaughterhouse wastes; appliances (including white goods and
brown goods); ashes or hot wastes that could spontaneously combust or ignite
other wastes due to high temperatures; ash from incinerators, energy recovery
facilities and power plants; batteries; carbon filters; fluorescent tubes and
ballasts; high-intensity discharge lamps; foundry wastes; hazardous waste;
household refuse or garbage; infectious waste; liquids (any type), liquid
nonhazardous materials; medical waste; mercury containing wastes (thermostats,
switches); PCB contaminated wastes; petroleum products and their containers or
filters (including oil, grease or fuel); radioactive waste (unless natural
materials at normal background levels); septage; sludges (including ink, lime,
wood, sewage or paper); live coal tar (including applicators, containers, and
tubes); waste tires; vehicles; yard waste; and packaging materials, including
cardboard, paper, shrink-wrap and styrofoam. A mixture of demolition waste with
other solid waste is not demolition waste.
   DEPARTMENT. The Planning and Zoning Office of Wright County, its staff, and
designated agents.
   DISPOSAL or DISPOSE. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking, or placing of any waste into or on any land or water so that the waste
or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the
air, or discharged into any waters, including ground water.
   DISPOSAL FACILITY. A solid waste facility permitted by the MPCA that is
designed or operated for the purpose of disposing of waste in or on the land,
together with any appurtenant facilities needed to process waste for disposal
or transfer to another solid waste facility.
   DUMPING. The illegal placement of any solid waste anywhere other than an
approved facility or container.
   ENERGY RECOVERY. A process by which energy is derived or extracted from
solid waste to capture the heat value for conversion to steam, electricity, or
immediate heat by direct combustion.
   ENERGY RECOVERY FACILITY. A facility used to capture the heat value of solid
waste for conversion to steam, electricity, or immediate heat by direct
combustion.
   ENERGY RECOVERY ASH LANDFILL. A solid waste landfill that is used for the
disposal of energy recovery facility ash.
   ENERGY RECOVERY FACILITY ASH or ERF ASH. The residue resulting from the
processing  combustion of solid waste from an energy recovery facility,
including fly ash and bottom ash and spent reagent and moisture.
   FACILITY. All contiguous land, structures, monitoring devices, and other
improvements on the land used for monitoring, treating, storing, or disposing
of solid waste, leachate or residuals from solid waste processing.
   FINAL DISPOSAL. Discharge, deposit, injection, uncontrolled dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste or any constituent thereof
that may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE. Monetary mechanisms which licensees use to assure
proper pre- closure/operational period, closure period, and post closure period
at a site or facility.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse or water basin which has been
or hereafter may be covered by a regional flood.
   GARBAGE. Discarded material resulting from the handling, processing,
storage, preparation, serving and consumption of food.
   GENERATE. The act or process of producing waste, including the production or
aggregation of waste occurring at an intermediate disposal facility.
   GENERATOR. Any person who generates solid waste.
   GROUNDWATER. Water contained below the surface of the earth in the saturated
zone including, without limitation, all waters whether under confined,
unconfined, or perched conditions, in near-surface unconsolidated sediment or
regolith, or rock formations deeper underground.
   HAULER. Any person in the business of the collection and transportation of
solid waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Refuse, sludge, or other waste material or combinations of
refuse, sludge or other waste materials in a solid, semisolid, liquid, or
contained gaseous form which because of its quantity, concentration, or
chemical, physical, or infectious characteristics may (a) cause or
significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious
irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or (b) pose a substantial
present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly
treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed. Categories
or hazardous waste materials include, but are not limited to: explosives,
flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants, and corrosives. Hazardous waste does
not include source, special, nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
   HOUSEHOLD. A single-family home or a building with residential units.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated from household activity that
exhibits the characteristics of or that is listed as hazardous waste under MPCA
rules, but does not include office materials, restaurant and food preparation
waste, discarded machinery, demolition debris, or household refuse.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE or ISW. All solid waste generated from an industrial
or manufacturing process or solid waste generated from non-manufacturing
activities such as service and commercial establishments and that is managed as
a separate waste stream from MSW. Industrial solid waste does not include
office materials, restaurant and food preparation waste, discarded machinery,
demolition waste, or residential waste.
   INTERMEDIATE DISPOSAL. The preliminary or incomplete disposal of solid waste
including, but not limited to, transfer station operations, open burning,
incomplete land disposal, incineration, composting, reduction, shredding,
compression, recycling, processing, and any other management or handling of
waste short of final disposal.
   JUNK. Scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber
debris, ferrous material, nonferrous material, inoperable automobiles, farm and
construction machinery and parts thereof.
   JUNK YARD. An establishment or place of storage and deposit which is
maintained, operated, or used for storing, buying, or selling junk, or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, at which the waste,
vehicle body, or discarded material stored is equal in bulk to three or more
motor vehicles.
   LANDFILL GAS. The production of a gas as a result of chemical reactions and
microbes acting upon the solid waste as the putrescible material begins to
break down in the solid waste landfill. The rate of production is affected by
waste composition and landfill geometry, which in turn influence the bacterial
populations within it, chemical make-up, thermal characteristics, entry of
moisture and escape of gas.
   LANDFILL GAS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The structures constructed and operated to
monitor and manage landfill gas including collection pipes, detection systems,
gas wells, gas probes and treatment facilities.
   LEACHATE. Liquid that has percolated through solid waste and has extracted,
dissolved, or suspended materials from it.
   LICENSE. Authorization by the county to conduct business services that may
be limited to a specific period of time, specific person, and or a specific
site in the county.
   LICENSEE. The landowner, owner, operator, or other person or persons given
authority by the department to establish, operate, and maintain a solid waste
management activity, disposal site or facility.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT. Cities, towns, and counties.
   MAJOR APPLIANCES. Clothes washers and dryers, dishwashers, hot water
heaters, residential furnaces, garbage disposals, trash compactors,
conventional and microwave ovens, ranges and stoves, air conditioners,
dehumidifiers, refrigerators, and freezers.
   MAJOR MODIFICATION. A proposed change in a licensed solid waste facility
that requires County Board approval. The criteria are stated in §
156.048.
   MARKET. Any person which accepts and recycles recyclable materials.
   MARKETED. Delivery of recyclable materials to and acceptance by a market.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE or MSW. Garbage, refuse, and other solid waste
from residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities that the
generator of the waste aggregates for collection. MSW does not include auto
hulks, street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree
and agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, used oil, and other
materials collected, processed, and disposed of as separate waste streams.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE SERVICES. Collection, transportation,
processing, or disposal of mixed municipal solid waste generated in the county,
including but not limited to regularly scheduled service, on-call service, one-
time service, rental and other use of equipment such as solid waste containers,
compactors, compactor boxes, and the like, and any other service that involves
or facilitates collection, transportation, processing, or disposal of solid
waste materials as mixed municipal solid waste. It does not include the sale of
equipment used for the collection, transportation, processing, or disposal of
mixed municipal solid waste. It does not include collection, transportation, or
management of recyclable materials, yard waste, food waste, source separated
compostable materials, problem materials, or other waste materials when these
materials are segregated by the generator for the purpose of recycling or
composting and are delivered to a recycling facility or compost facility, or
the sale, rental, or other use of equipment necessary to facilitate collection,
transportation, or management of these materials.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled including, but is not
limited to, all-terrain vehicles, buses, motorcycles, passenger cars,
recreational vehicles, semi-trucks, snowmobiles, boats and other watercraft,
trucks, and vehicles used for racing or demolition derbies.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   MSW LANDFILL. A solid waste landfill that is used for the disposal of MSW.
   MULTIPLE OPERATION FACILITY LICENSE. One license granted to a person who
operates two or more solid waste facilities within the same site boundary.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, village, borough, county, town, sanitary district,
school district, or other governmental subdivision or public corporation, or
agency created by the legislature.
   NON-CONFORMING SITES. Real property used for final or intermediate disposal
of solid waste for which no license was obtained from the County Board or that
has not been closed in conformance with this chapter.
   NON-PROCESSIBLE WASTE. Solid waste that cannot be processed at a processing
facility due to the physical characteristics of the solid waste or potential
harmful effects to the processing facility.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION or NOV. A formal written notice issued by county staff
to notify a party that he or she is in violation of a county ordinance. This
NOV will inform the party of the alleged violations, the nature and extent of
the violations, and the required corrective actions. The NOV shall also specify
additional actions that will be taken by the department, such as the inclusion
of NOV orders into a final order or consent order and/or the issuance of a
citation, as well as specific time frames in which these actions will be
completed.
   NUISANCE. The creation of conditions or acts that unreasonably annoy,
injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or repose of any number of
members of the public.
   OPEN AREA. Areas outside of a building or structure.
   OPEN BURNING. Burning any solid waste whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the open atmosphere.
   OPEN DUMP. A disposal facility at which solid waste is disposed of in a
manner that does not protect the environment, is susceptible to open burning,
and is exposed to the elements, vermin, and scavengers.
   OPERATIONS. Any site, facility, or activity relating to solid waste
management purposes pursuant to this chapter.
   OPERATOR. The person(s) responsible for managing the day to day physical
handling of solid waste at a particular site or facility.
   ORDINANCE. 
Chapter 156, the Wright County Solid Waste Management Ordinance.
   OWNER. Any person or persons having a legal interest in real or personal
property or any persons in possession or control of real or personal property
including, but not limited to, mortgages, contract for deed vendees, and
contract for deed vendors.
   PERSON. Any human being, municipality or other governmental or political
subdivision or other public agency, public or private corporation, partnership,
firm, association, organization, receiver, trustee, assignee, agent or other
legal entity.
   PERSONNEL or FACILITY PERSONNEL. All persons who work at or oversee the
operation of a solid waste facility, and whose actions or failure to act may
result in noncompliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   PROBLEM MATERIAL. A material that, when processed or disposed of with mixed
municipal solid waste, contributes to one of the following results: 1) the
release of a hazardous substance, or pollutant or contaminant as defined in
M.S. § 115B.02, as it may be amended from time to time; 2) pollution of water
as defined in M.S. § 115.01, as it may be amended from time to time; 3) air
pollution as defined in M.S. § 116.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
or 4) a significant threat to the safe or efficient operation of a solid waste
management facility.
   PROCESSING. When referring to solid waste, means the treatment of solid
waste after collection and before final disposal. Processing includes, but is
not limited to: containment, reduction, storage, separation, exchange,
physical, chemical or biological modification, and subsequent transfer from one
solid waste facility to another.
   PROCESSING FACILITY. A site used to process solid waste, including all
structures, equipment used to process the waste, storage areas for the incoming
waste, and the final product and residuals resulting from the process.
Processing facilities includes, but is not limited to wood, electronic, and
major appliance recycling facilities and salvage yards.
   PUTRESCIBLE MATERIAL. Solid waste which IS capable of reaching a foul state
of decay or decomposition.
   REAL PROPERTY.
      (1)   For the purposes of taxation, real property includes the land
itself, rails, ties, and other track materials annexed to the land, and all
buildings, structures, and improvements or other fixtures on it, bridges of
bridge companies, and all rights and privileges belonging or appertaining to
the land, and all mines, iron ore and taconite minerals not otherwise exempt,
quarries, fossils, and trees on or under it.
      (2)   A building or structure shall include the building or structure
itself, together with all improvements or fixtures annexed to the building or
structure, which are integrated with and of permanent benefit to the building
or structure, regardless of the present use of the building, and which cannot
be removed without substantial damage to itself or to the building or
structure.
      (3)   Real property does not include the following:
         (a)   Tools, implements, machinery, and equipment attached to or
installed in real property for use in the business or production activity
conducted thereon, regardless of size, weight or method of attachment, and mine
shafts, tunnels, and other underground openings used to extract ores and
minerals taxed under M.S. Ch. 298, as it may be amended from time to time,
together with steel, concrete, and other materials used to support such
openings.
         (b)   The exclusion provided in clause (a) shall not apply to
machinery and equipment includable as real estate by paragraphs (1) and (2)
even though such machinery and equipment is used in the business or production
activity conducted on the real property if and to the extent such business or
production activity consists of furnishing services or products to other
buildings or structures which are subject to taxation under this chapter.
         (c)   The exclusion provided in clause (a) does not apply to the
exterior shell of a structure, which constitutes walls, ceilings, roofs, or
floors if the shell of the structure has structural, insulation, or temperature
control functions or provides protection from the elements. Such an exterior
shell is included in the definition of real property even if it also has
special functions distinct from that of a building.
      (4)   The term real property does not include tools, implements,
machinery, equipment, poles, lines, cables, wires, conduit, and station
connections which are part of a telephone communications system, regardless of
attachment to or installation in real property and regardless of size, weight,
or method of attachment or installation (see M.S. § 272.03, subd. 1, as it may
be amended from time to time).
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from solid waste for the
purpose of recycling including paper, glass, plastics, metals, wood, shingles,
automobile oil and batteries.
   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and
reusing the materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing
processes that do not cause the destruction of the recyclable materials in a
manner that precludes further use.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A processing facility that collects, processes, and
repairs recyclable materials and reuse them in their original form or use them
in manufacturing processes.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, including garbage,
ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street cleanings, industrial solid
wastes and sewage treatment wastes which are in a dry form.
   REJECTED WASTE. Unacceptable waste which is rejected at the designated
facility.
   RESIDENCE. A single-family home or a building with residential units.
   RESIDUE or RESIDUALS. Solid waste remaining after processing or composting
including ash residue and other solid waste that is not recovered or combusted.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY. The reclamation for sale, use, or reuse of materials,
substances, energy, or other products contained within or derived from waste,
including, but not limited to energy recovery, processing, and composting
facilities.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A solid waste facility established and used
primarily for resource recovery, including related and appurtenant facilities
such as transmission facilities and transfer stations primarily serving the
resource recovery facility.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The owner, operator, or successor in interest of a solid
waste facility.
   SATELLITE VEHICLE. A vehicle used to collect solid waste for subsequent
transfer into another, usually larger, vehicle or container for transport to a
solid waste facility.
   SCAVENGING. The removal of waste materials from a licensed solid waste
facility, which has not been authorized by the department.
   SCREENING. The placement of man-made or natural barriers such as a fence,
tree line, or berm so as to prevent public view of potentially unsightly or
nuisance material.
   SELF HAULER. A person who transports their own solid waste for solid waste
management purposes.
   SEWAGE SLUDGE. The solids and associated liquids in municipal wastewater
which are encountered and concentrated by a municipal wastewater treatment
plant. Sewage sludge does not include incinerator residues and grit, scum, or
screenings removed from other solids during treatment.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from the ordinary
high water elevation of public waters: 1,000 feet from ordinary high water
level of a lake, pond, or flowage: and 300 feet of a river or stream whichever
is greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever waters involved
are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for
lesser distances and when approved by the commissioner.
   SITE. The spatial location of a proposed or actual solid waste facility.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air containment treatment facility, or other waste having similar
characteristics and effects.
   SOLID WASTE or WASTE. Garbage, refuse, sludge, from a water supply treatment
plant or air contaminant treatment facility, and other discarded waste
materials and sludges, in solid, semi solid, liquid, or contained gaseous form,
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and
from community activities, but does not include hazardous waste; animal waste
used as fertilizer; earthen fill, boulders, rock; sewage sludge; solid or
dissolved material in domestic sewage or other common water resources, such as
silt, dissolved and suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents or
discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the
federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, or its successor, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows; or source, special nuclear, or by-product
material as defined by The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or its
successor.
   SOLID WASTE ADMINISTRATOR. The individual assigned by the county to oversee
and direct solid waste management activities.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION. The gathering of solid waste from public and private
places.
   SOLID WASTE FACILITY. All property, real or personal, including negative and
positive easements and water and air rights, that is used for processing,
managing, or disposing of solid waste, except property used primarily for the
manufacture of metal or paper. The term solid waste facility includes solid
waste landfills, transfer stations, incinerators, energy recovery facilities,
RDF processing facilities, solid waste storage facilities, processing
facilities, composting facilities, infectious waste facilities, and also
includes any other intermediate and final solid waste disposal sites and
facilities.
   SOLID WASTE HAULER. Any person or persons who collects or transports any
solid waste; except, an individual resident hauling his or her own household
waste is not a solid waste hauler.
   SOLID WASTE LANDFILL. A site used for final disposal of solid waste in or on
the land.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Activities which are intended to affect or control
the generation of waste and activities which provide for or control the
collection, processing and disposal of waste.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AREA. The boundaries which are coterminous with the
boundaries of the county.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN. The Solid Waste Management Plan for Wright
County Minnesota.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES. All activities provided by the county, by
persons under contract with the county, or by other persons that support the
waste management responsibilities described in M.S. Ch. 115A, 116, 400 and 473,
as they may be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, waste
reduction and reuse; waste recycling; composting of yard waste and food waste;
resource recovery through mixed municipal solid waste composting or
incineration; land disposal; management of problem materials and household
hazardous waste; collection, processing, and disposal of solid waste, closure
and post-closure care of a solid waste facility, and response, as defined in
M.S. § 115B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, to releases from a
solid waste facility.
   SOLID WASTE SERVICE AREA. The boundaries which are coterminous with the
boundaries of the county.
   SOLID WASTE STORAGE. The holding of solid waste in one place or facility for
more than 48 hours in quantities equal to or greater than ten cubic yards.
   SOURCE SEPARATED COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS. Materials that: (1) are separated at
the source by waste generators for the purpose of preparing them for use as
compost; (2) are collected separately from MSW; (3) are comprised of food
wastes, fish and animal waste, plant materials, and paper that is not
recyclable because the department has determined that no other person is
willing to accept the paper for recycling; and (4) are delivered to the
facility to undergo controlled microbial degradation to yield a humus-like
product meeting the MPCA’s class I or class II, or equivalent, compost
standards and where process residues do not exceed 15% by weight of the total
material delivered to the facility.
   SOURCE SEPARATED MATERIALS. Solid waste that generators separate from mixed
municipal solid waste, solid waste that will be reused, used as substitutes for
raw material in a manufacturing process, or converted into a usable soil
amendment.
   SOURCE SEPARATED ORGANIC COMPOST FACILITY. A site used to compost source
separated compostable materials including all structures used to control
drainage, collect and treat leachate, storage areas for the incoming waste, and
the final product.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   STIPULATION AGREEMENT. A voluntary agreement entered into between Wright
County and a person, whereby the person agrees to perform actions to correct
ordinance violations within an agreed upon time period and upon which its terms
and conditions may be enforced in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   TRANSFER STATION. An intermediate solid waste facility in which waste
collected from any source is temporarily deposited to await transportation to
another waste facility.
   TRANSPORTATION. The conveying of solid waste from one place to another.
   UNACCEPTABLE WASTE. All other types of waste of any nature, type, or
composition received at a licensed solid waste facility other than acceptable
waste.
   WARNING LETTER. A written notice issued by county staff to notify a party
that he or she is in violation of a county ordinance. The warning letter will
inform the party of the alleged violations, the nature and extent of the
violations, and the required corrective actions. The warning letter shall be
utilized as the initial county notification of alleged violations, except in
cases of imminent threat to public health and safety and the environment.
   WASTE REDUCTION. An activity that prevents generation of waste including
reusing a product in its original form, increasing the life span of the
product, reducing material used in production and packaging, or changing
procurement, consumption, or waste generation habits to result in smaller
quantities of waste generated.
   WASTE TIRE or TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original
intended purposes because of wear, damage, defect, or rejection.
   WATER TABLE. The surface of the ground water at which the pressure is
atmospheric. Generally, this is the top of the saturated zone.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells springs reservoirs aquifers, irrigation systems, and all other
bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground natural or artificial,
public or private, which are contained within, flow throughout or border upon
the state or any portion thereof.
   WETLANDS. A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United
States Fish and Wildlife Circular No. 39 (1971).
   YARD WASTE. Garden wastes, leaves, lawn cuttings, weeds, shrub and tree
waste, and prunings.
   YARD WASTE COMPOST FACILITY. A site used to compost yard waste including all
structures used to control drainage, collect and treat leachate, storage areas
for the incoming waste, and the final product.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.004 DEPARTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Duties of the department. The department shall be responsible for the
administration of this chapter. The department’s duties shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   To review and consider all license applications submitted to the
department for operation of all solid waste management activities within the
county.
   (B)   To issue or deny solid waste licenses, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, and to impose solid waste activity specific conditions on such
licenses.
   (C)   To review and consider renewal license applications, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (D)   To identify the solid waste management needs of the county and to
develop and implement plans to meet those needs.
   (E)   To encourage and conduct studies, investigations, and research
relating to aspects of solid waste management, such as methodology, chemical
and physical considerations, and engineering.
   (F)   To advise, consult, and cooperate with other governmental agencies in
the furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.005 BOUNDARIES OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AREA.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 400.08, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
the county establishes one solid waste management area, with its boundaries
being coterminous with the boundaries of the county.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.006 HIGHEST STANDARDS PREVAIL.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of this
chapter, or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule, and regulation, the
provision which establishes the higher standards for the promotion and
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare shall prevail.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.007 JURISDICTION OF THE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 115A.46, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time,
a public entity within the county may not enter into a binding agreement nor
develop nor undertake a solid waste management activity that is inconsistent
with the county solid waste management plan without the express consent of the
county.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.008 PLANNING & ZONING APPROVAL.
   Any use of land for solid waste management within the county shall comply
with the applicable zoning requirements of the Wright County Code of
Ordinances, or the requirements of applicable municipal land use ordinances. No
license shall be granted unless all necessary permits and zoning approvals have
first been issued by the county or municipality, as applicable.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.009 INDEMNIFICATION.
   To the fullest extent permitted by law, a licensee shall, as a condition of
each license, indemnify the county, its officers, employees, agents, and others
acting on their behalf, to hold them harmless, and to defend and protect them,
from and against any and all loss, damage, liability, cost and expense
(specifically including attorneys’ fees and other costs and expenses of
defense), of any sort whatsoever, based upon, resulting from, or otherwise
arising in connection with any actions, claims or proceedings (of any sort and
from any source whatsoever) brought, or any loss, damage or injury of any type
whatsoever sustained, by reason of any act or omission of a licensee, its
officers, employees or agents, or any other person(s) or entity(ies) for whose
acts or omissions a licensee may be legally responsible, in the performance of
any of a licensee’s obligations (whether expressed or implied) under this
chapter.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.010 NO CONSENT.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to be a consent, license,
or permit to locate, construct, operate, or maintain any solid waste management
activity, or to carry on any activity prior to issuance of a license, when a
license is required hereunder.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.011 FALSE INFORMATION.
   Intentional submission of false information shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.012 DATA PRIVACY.
   Any data received by the department or any entity acting on behalf of the
department shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of the
Minnesota Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 156.025 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may collect, transport, or dispose of solid waste generated within
the county except in full compliance with this chapter after having obtained a
license to do so by the department as specified in this section. This section
does not apply to self-haulers or to the transportation of solid waste through
the county.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.026 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License application. The hauler shall submit a completed application
to the county on a form provided by the department.
   (B)   License fees. The hauler shall pay all license fees to the county with
the license application and the license renewal application. The amounts of
such license fees will be established no later than October of each year by the
County Board. No license fee shall be prorated for a portion of a year and no
license fee shall be refunded.
   (C)   Incomplete or non-conforming application. An application shall be
deemed incomplete if information is omitted, incomplete, inaccurate, or does
not comply with the application requirements, or if the required fees do not
accompany the application. If a license application is incomplete or otherwise
does not conform to the requirements set forth in this chapter, the department
shall advise the applicant of the reasons for non-acceptance and may request
that the applicant resubmit, modify, or otherwise alter the application.
   (D)   License term and renewal.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by the department, the term of a hauler
license shall be one year, from February 1 to January 31, unless sooner
renewed, suspended or revoked.
      (2)   License renewal applications shall be submitted to the department
by January 15 of each year. License renewal applications received after that
date shall be subject to a late fee as determined by the County Board.
   (E)   License non-transferable. Licenses granted by the department under
this section are not transferable to other persons.
   (F)   Specific licensing requirement. The hauler shall submit the following
information to the county on a form provided by the department:
      (1)   A list of all vehicles, including satellite vehicles, to be used
for solid waste collection and transportation, specifying make, model, and year
for each vehicle; each vehicles rated capacity, tare weight, license plate
number, state issued registration number, and the designated facility number,
if applicable, exclusively issued for that specific vehicle.
      (2)   The total number of commercial accounts in the county, the total
number of residential accounts in the county, the days of the week solid waste
is collected for each city and township in the county if an MSW hauler.
      (3)   A description of the company’s recycling and other solid waste
abatement activities.
      (4)   Certificate(s) of insurance pursuant to §
156.029.
   (G)   Inspection. The department may inspect and approve all solid waste
collection and transportation vehicles, and containers to ensure compliance
with this chapter. If a vehicle and/or container are found to be deficient, the
hauler shall be given a reasonable opportunity, as determined by the
department, to correct and/or repair the deficiency and seek re-approval from
the department.
   (H)   Record examination. The department or its duly authorized agent shall
have the right to examine business records related to data as required pursuant
to §
156.027 including computer records maintained by the hauler. The department
upon prior notification shall be allowed access during normal business hours to
inspect and copy all business records to the extent necessary to ensure
compliance with §
156.027. Such records shall be maintained by the hauler for a minimum of six
years.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.027 REPORTING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Annual report. All MSW haulers shall keep records and report annually
to the department information relating to the collection, processing, and
disposal of solid waste and recyclable materials collected by the hauler as
required by this section. The information shall be reported to the department
no later than January 15 of each year. The department shall provide the hauler
with the proper form for such reporting purposes.
   (B)   Records. For the purposes of this section, “type” means a best
estimate using the best available data of the percentage of each truckload that
consists of residential, and non-residential such as commercial, industrial,
construction, and demolition debris or any other general type of solid waste.
All MSW haulers shall keep records of the following information for a minimum
of six years:
      (1)   Types and quantities of solid waste. The hauler shall maintain
records regarding the volume or weight, type(s), and solid waste service area
(s) of solid waste collected. The hauler shall keep a daily record of the solid
waste service area(s), type(s), and weight of the waste collected that day, and
the identity of the solid waste facility at which collected waste is deposited.
If the waste is measured by volume at the solid waste facility at which it is
deposited, the record may indicate the volume rather than the weight of the
waste.
      (2)   Number of residential and non-residential accounts. An MSW hauler
shall maintain a record of the number of residential and non-residential
accounts serviced in each solid waste service area.
      (3)   Total weight of solid waste. The hauler shall maintain a record of
the total weight of all solid waste collected by type. The weight of the solid
waste collected shall be reported and documented by a state certified scale or
other county approved documentation method.
      (4)   Management of solid waste. The hauler shall maintain a record of
the location(s) where solid waste was delivered, deposited, processed, or
marketed and the total amount of waste delivered to each solid waste facility
or other location.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.028 EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Equipment requirements. All solid waste collection and transportation
vehicles, or other conveyance used by a hauler for the collection or
transportation of solid waste, shall be easily cleanable, leak-proof, and
covered with metal, canvas, or a fish-net type material so as to prevent escape
of solid waste while in transit.
   (B)   Maintenance. The licensee shall maintain all solid waste collection
and transportation vehicles in a safe and sanitary manner and provide brooms
and shovels on each vehicle for the purpose of cleaning up spilled material
caused by haulers. All safety equipment including, but not limited to, horns,
lights, and reflectors shall be operable.
   (C)   Labeling.
      (1)   Decals may be issued by the department for each licensed vehicle or
conveyance; these shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the left side of
the cab. If applicable, facility numbers shall be displayed as directed by the
facility. The licensee shall maintain all decals, labeling, and license plates
so that they are readily visible and legible at all times, and shall request
replacement if they become damaged and illegible.
      (2)   The licensed hauler shall contact the department by telephone or in
writing if it finds it necessary to use a vehicle other than one included in
its original or amended license application.
      (3)   In addition, the business name and telephone number of the licensee
shall be easily visible and be printed or painted in legible characters on both
sides of all vehicles, containers, and conveyances used by the hauler to store,
collect, or transport waste generated within the county.
   (D)   Storage. The licensee shall not allow solid waste to remain or be
stored in any collection or transportation vehicle in excess of 48 hours for
MSW, and 72 hours for any other type of solid waste, except in the event of an
emergency such as inclement weather, equipment breakdown, or accident. The
department may approve storage for greater than the above listed hours, on a
case-by-case basis, for reasons other than emergencies, provided such storage
will not adversely affect public health, safety, or the environment. Best
efforts shall be provided by haulers to ensure that storage of solid waste in
containers is done with water impermeable covers.
   (E)   Dumping in an emergency. The licensee shall be responsible for cleanup
of any solid waste that shall be dumped in an emergency. In addition, a
licensed hauler shall be responsible for cleaning up any litter or solid waste
knowingly discharged onto roadways and or properties while in transit. Should
the responsible hauler fail to clean up solid waste knowingly dumped in an
emergency or knowingly discharged onto roadways and or properties while in
transit, the county may charge such hauler the entire cost incurred of the
removal and disposal of the solid waste.
   (F)   Charges on MSW. The department shall require licensees to impose
charges for collection of mixed municipal solid waste that increase with the
volume or weight of the waste collected. The licensee shall provide, upon
request of a residential customer, a quote of the licensee’s charges.
   (G)   Charges on recycling. The licensee shall not impose a greater charge
on residents who recycle than on residents who do not recycle.
   (H)   Source separated materials. Haulers shall not mix source separated
materials with mixed municipal solid waste or knowingly handle source separated
materials in any way that reduces the reusability or marketability of the
recyclable materials.
   (I)   Recycling opportunities. At least once each year licensed haulers
shall provide specific information concerning recycling opportunities available
to their customers.
   (J)   Smoking, smoldering, or burning waste. The licensee may not collect or
transport solid waste that is smoking, smoldering, or burning.
   (K)   Protecting private property. The licensee shall take reasonable care
to protect the property of customers being served.
   (L)   Hours of operation. The licensee may not collect or transport solid
waste from residential property or residential buildings before 6:00 a.m. or
after 9:00 p.m.
   (M)   Banned materials. Haulers shall not knowingly accept for collection in
the county any mixed municipal solid waste or materials that have been banned
from solid waste or mixed municipal solid waste by any state statute.
   (N)   Collection of yard waste. If collection of yard waste is provided, the
hauler-imposed fee for such collection shall be indicated as a separate line
item on a customer’s bill.
   (O)   Yard waste collection criteria. Haulers shall only accept for
collection, yard waste that meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Has been placed in paper bags or other containers that will
decompose within the time period it takes to produce a finished compost product
out of the material held by the container; or
      (2)   Is in a container that is not collected with the yard waste.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.029 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The hauler shall obtain, maintain, and submit with the license application
certificates of insurance issued by insurers duly licensed by the State of
Minnesota providing the following coverage, or a self-insurance plan certified
by the Department of Commerce providing equivalent coverage:
   (A)   Workers compensation insurance.
      (1)   Worker’s compensation insurance shall be in compliance with all
applicable state statutes. Such policy shall include Employer’s Liability
Coverage in at least such amount(s) as are customarily issued in Minnesota and
an All States or Universal Endorsement, if applicable.
      (2)   In the event a licensee is a sole proprietor and has elected not to
provide workers’ compensation insurance, the licensee shall be required to
execute and submit to the department an affidavit of sole proprietorship in a
form acceptable to the department.
   (B)   General liability.
      (1)   Commercial General Liability Coverage, providing coverage on an
“occurrence”, rather than on a “claims made” basis, which policy shall include,
but shall not be limited to, coverage for bodily injury, property damage,
personal injury, contractual liability (applying to this contract), independent
licensees, “XC&U” and products-completed operations liability (if applicable).
Such coverage may be provided under an equivalent policy form (or forms), so
long as such equivalent form (or forms) affords coverage that is at least as
broad. An insurance form (or forms) affords coverage that is at least as broad.
An Insurance Services Office “Comprehensive General Liability” policy that
includes a “Broad Form Endorsement”, shall be considered to be an acceptable
equivalent policy form.
      (2)   The licensee shall maintain at all times during the period of the
license a total combined general liability policy limit of at least $1,000,000
for each occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate, applying to liability for bodily
injury, personal injury, and property damage, which total limit may be
satisfied by the limit afforded under its “Commercial General Liability”
policy, or equivalent policy, or by such policy in combination with the limits
afforded by an “Umbrella” or “Excess Liability” policy (or policies), provided,
that the coverage afforded under any such “Umbrella” or “Excess Liability”
policy is at least as broad as that afforded by the underlying “Commercial
General Liability policy (or equivalent underlying policy).
      (3)   Such commercial general liability policy and “Umbrella” or “Excess
Liability” policy (or policies) may provide aggregate limits for some or all of
the coverage afforded thereunder, so long as such aggregate limits have not, as
of the beginning of the term or at any time during the term, been reduced to
less than the total required limits stated above, and further, that the
“Umbrella” or “Excess Liability” policy provides coverage from the point that
such aggregate limits in the underlying comprehensive general liability policy
become reduced or exhausted.
   (C)   Automobile liability. Business Automobile Liability Insurance shall be
obtained and shall cover liability for bodily injury and property damage
arising out of ownership, use, maintenance, or operation of all owned, non-
owned and hired automobiles and other motor vehicles utilized by the licensee
in connection with performance under this license agreement. Such policy shall
provide total liability limits for combined bodily and/or property damage in
the amount of at least $1,500,000 per accident, which total limits may be
satisfied by the limits afforded under such policy, or by such policy in
combination with the limits afforded by an “Umbrella” or “Excess Liability”
policy(ies), provided, that the coverage afforded under any such “Umbrella” or
“Excess Liability” policy(ies) shall be at least as broad with respect to such
business automobile liability insurance as that afforded by the underlying
policy. Unless included within the scope of the licensee’s commercial general
liability policy, such business automobile liability shall also include
coverage for motor vehicle liability assumed under contract.
   (D)   Evidence of insurance. A licensee shall promptly provide the
department with evidence that the insurance coverage required hereunder is in
full force and effect at least 20 days prior to the granting of a license by
the department. At least 30 days prior to termination of any such coverage,
licensee shall provide the department with evidence that such coverage will be
renewed or replaced upon termination with insurance that compiles with these
provisions. Such evidence of insurance shall be in the form of a “Certificate
of Insurance”, or in such other form as the department may reasonably request,
and shall contain sufficient information to allow the department to determine
whether there is compliance with these provisions. At the request of the
department, the licensee shall, in addition to providing such evidence of
insurance, promptly furnish the department with a complete (and if so
requested, insurer-certified) copy of each insurance policy intended to provide
coverage required hereunder. All such policies shall be endorsed to require
that the insurer provide at least a 60-day notice to the department prior to
the effective date of policy cancellation, non-renewal, or material adverse
change in coverage terms. The licensee’s insurance agent shall certify on the
certificate of insurance, that he/she has error and omissions coverage.
   (E)   Insurer policies. All policies of insurance required by this chapter
shall be issued by financially responsible insurers licensed to do business in
the State of Minnesota, and all such insurers shall be acceptable to the
department. Such acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. An
insurer with a current A.M. Best Company rating of at least A: VII shall be
conclusively deemed to be acceptable. In all other instances, the department
shall have 20 business days for the date of receipt of a licensee’s evidence of
insurance to advise the licensee in writing of any insurer that is not
acceptable to the county. If the department does not respond in writing within
such 20-day period, the licensee’s insurer(s) shall be deemed to be acceptable
to the county.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.030 WASTE DEPOSIT DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Waste disclosure required.
      (1)   A person that collects construction debris, industrial solid waste,
or mixed municipal solid waste for transportation to a solid waste facility
shall, between January 1 and March 31 of every year, disclose to each waste
generator from whom waste is collected the name, location, and type of, and the
number of the permit issued by the MPCA, or its counterpart in another state,
if applicable, for the processing or disposal facility or facilities, excluding
a transfer station, at which the waste will be deposited. The hauler shall
state the approximate percentage of waste deposited at each of the two primary
facilities used for the type of solid waste collected from the generator in the
county and any alternative solid waste management facility regularly used by
the hauler for the type of solid waste collected from the generator in the
county.
      (2)   All disclosures shall be in writing and include the following
statement: “You may be responsible for any liability that results from
contamination at a facility where your waste has been deposited. Minnesota
believes that its waste management system provides substantially more financial
and environmental protection than depositing waste in landfills in other
states. Managing your waste in Minnesota may minimize your potential
liability.”
      (3)   If any of the primary or alternative disposal facilities identified
by the hauler in division (A)(1) of this section are not located in Minnesota,
the disclosure shall state “The landfill to which your waste may be sent during
the current calendar year is not a Minnesota landfill.”
   (B)   Form of disclosure.
      (1)   A hauler shall make the required disclosure to the waste generator
in writing at least once per year between January 1 and March 31 and on any
written contract for collection services for that year. If the license issued
by the county to the hauler for collection within the county does not require
the collector to submit a copy of the disclosure to the county, the collector
shall submit a copy to the commissioner of the MPCA by March 31 of each year.
      (2)   The disclosure is not required with regard to the collection of
mixed municipal solid waste if the city or county within which the waste is
generated selects the collector that may provide collection services to the
generator; in such case the city or county shall make the required disclosure.
      (3)   If a hauler provides one-time or occasional service to a waste
generator, the hauler shall orally provide the generator with the required
disclosure at the time the generator agrees to purchase the service. The hauler
shall then provide written disclosure to the generator within 45 days.
      (4)   If an additional facility becomes either a primary facility or an
alternative facility during the year, the hauler shall make the disclosure set
forth in this section within 30 days. A local government unit that collects
solid waste without direct charges to waste generators shall make the
disclosure on any statement that includes an amount for waste management,
provided that, at a minimum, disclosure to waste generators shall be made at
least twice annually in a form likely to be available to all generators.
      (5)   In the event the MPCA or the county develop standard disclosure
forms containing the information required in this section, haulers may use the
forms for purposes of this section.
   (C)   Transfer stations. If the hauler deposits waste at a transfer station,
the hauler need not disclose the name and location of the transfer station but
shall disclose the destination of the waste when it leaves the transfer
station.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.031 MANDATORY COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   Mandatory collection. Haulers licensed pursuant to this subchapter
shall provide recycling services to all residential, commercial and industrial
customers in Wright County, unless otherwise specified by the municipality.
   (B)   Materials collected. At a minimum, the following materials shall be
collected: aluminum and steel cans, newspaper, clear, brown and green glass,
plastics, corrugated cardboard and office paper.
   (C)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all persons seeking a
license under the provisions of this chapter to collect and transport municipal
solid waste, at the point of generation or that transfer or otherwise transport
solid waste to a disposal or processing facility.
   (D)   County audit. The county may conduct an audit to verify the accuracy
of the data submitted, pursuant to the provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
§ 156.045 LOCATION OF FACILITY.
   Notwithstanding any other county or municipal ordinance authorizing the use
of property for solid waste facility purposes, no portion of a solid waste
landfill that is used for the deposit of solid waste into the land may be
located in the following areas:
   (A)   Within areas that the topography, geology, hydrogeology, or soils are
inadequate for ground water protection.
   (B)   Within a floodplain, within a shoreland, within a wetland area, or
within five feet of the seasonal high ground water table.
   (C)   Within 1,000 feet of a residence or well.
   (D)   Within 1,000 feet. of a county highway or county state aid highway
right-of-way.
   (E)   Within 1,000 feet of a park.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.046 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following shall be established, constructed, or provided for at the
solid waste landfill site except as indicated below:
   (A)   Records. Records as approved and requested by the department shall be
maintained and shall be accessible to the department. These records shall show:
      (1)   The total number of tons of solid waste accepted and disposed based
solely on the difference between the tare weight of each vehicle and/or
conveyance and the gross weight of each vehicle and/or conveyance as measured
on the landfill scale;
      (2)   General type or types of solid waste accepted and disposed, passed
through, or rejected by the facility;
      (3)   Origin(s) of solid waste accepted and disposed;
      (4)   The date and time of delivery; and
      (5)   The hauler(s) that delivered solid waste to the facility.
   (B)   Scale required. A solid waste landfill shall weigh all incoming solid
waste and shall record the weight in tons on a Department of Commerce approved
scale. The weights shall be automatically recorded on the scale ticket. For
mixed loads, the landfill operator may estimate the percentage of the recorded
weight attributable to each waste stream identified in the mixed load. In the
event of a mechanical issue that may temporarily render the scale inoperable,
the landfill operator shall manually record the weight of each load delivered
to the landfill. In such event, the landfill operator shall provide a report to
the department identifying the time period during which the scale was
inoperable and the reason the scale was inoperable. The report shall be
provided with the solid waste landfill’s monthly fee reports.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.047 OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   Any person who operates a solid waste landfill shall operate said landfill
in conformance with the MPCA solid waste management rules, Minn. Rules. Ch.
7035, as amended, the Solid Waste Management Section of the Office of
Environmental Assistance Development Guide, and comply with the following
operating regulations.
   (A)   Open burning. Open burning of solid waste is prohibited. No scavenging
shall be allowed.
   (B)   Minimizing leachate. Solid waste shall be deposited in such a manner
(utilizing sound engineering and design methods) so as to minimize or prevent
leachate production and movement that may cause surface and/or ground water
contamination.
   (C)   Waste tire prohibition. The disposal of waste tires is prohibited in
any solid waste landfill.
   (D)   Acceptance of solid waste from licensed haulers. A solid waste
landfill shall immediately notify the department if the facility has accepted
solid waste from a solid waste collection and transportation vehicle that is
not licensed pursuant to this chapter, unless the vehicle is not required to be
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Uniform reporting. The licensee shall submit in a timely manner the
following reports to the department as prescribed by the county.
      (1)   Quarterly operating report. Each quarter, the licensee shall submit
an operating report to the department on a form prescribed by the department.
Quarterly reports shall be due on the fifteenth day of April, July, October and
January and include the following information for each of the three preceding
months:
         (a)   Tons of solid waste received. Tonnage shall be determined by
subtracting the tare weight of vehicles and/or conveyances from the gross
weight of the vehicles and/or conveyances as measured on the landfill scale.
         (b)   Number of incoming loads accepted at the facility.
         (c)   Identification of rejected, recycled and unacceptable waste, the
weight or volume and type of rejected, recycled and unacceptable waste, and the
destination of rejected, recycled and unacceptable waste.
         (d)   Other information as determined by the department that is
required by this chapter to be kept by the facility.
      (2)   Annual report. The landfill operator shall submit to the county a
copy of its annual report to the MPCA. At a minimum, the following information
shall be included in or submitted with the annual report:
         (a)   Yearly totals for tons of solid waste received. Tonnage shall be
determined as described in division (E)(1)(a) above.
         (b)   The landfill capacity in cubic yards utilized during the same
period and the landfill capacity in cubic yards remaining at the close of the
reporting period in accordance with MPCA permitted capacity.
         (c)   A plan describing a reuse/recycling program at the facility to
minimize the amount of waste landfilled.
      (3)   Surface and ground water monitoring report. A surface and ground
water monitoring report shall include the certified analytical data for
representative samples taken from all established monitoring stations for those
physical and chemical parameters required by the department and the MPCA as
well as all other data required by the department.
      (4)   Methane monitoring report. If requested by written notice from the
department, a methane monitoring report shall include all required data from
established monitoring stations and methane recovery facilities.
      (5)   Leachate monitoring report. If requested by written notice from the
department, a leachate monitoring report shall include all required data from
established monitoring stations and leachate collection and treatment
facilities.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.048 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   At a minimum, the following additional requirements shall be met for a
sanitary landfill:
   (A)   Requirement to accept solid waste. During the posted hours of
operation, the facility shall accept
all solid waste offered for disposal that may legally and reasonably be
disposed of at the site.
   (B)   Prohibited wastes.
      (1)   The following shall not be acceptable for deposit in sanitary
landfills except in amounts normal in household waste:
         (a)   Liquids, except for approved recirculation of leachate.
         (b)   Any of the following: digested sewage sludges, lime sludges,
grit chamber cleanings, bar screenings, and other sludges.
         (c)   In no case will raw sewage, sludge, raw animal manure, or septic
tank pumpings be acceptable.
         (d)   Hazardous waste as identified by the MPCA.
         (e)   Industrial solid wastes, including sludge and ash, and other
potentially hazardous materials.
         (f)   Radioactive material that exceeds radiation emission limit
standards for solid waste as determined by the Minnesota Department of Health
or the MPCA.
      (2)   The following wastes in any amount are prohibited from disposal in
a sanitary landfill located in the county:
         (a)   Tires;
         (b)   Lead-acid batteries;
         (c)   Major appliances;
         (d)   Trees and tree branches;
         (e)   Waste oil and used oil filters;
         (f)   Yard wastes;
         (g)   Mercury-containing wastes as listed in M.S. § 115A.932, or as
amended; and
         (h)   Telephone directories.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
TRANSFER STATIONS
§ 156.060 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following shall be established and maintained at the transfer
station site:
      (1)   Records approved by the department shall be maintained indicating
the type and quantity of solid waste passing through the transfer station.
These records shall show:
         (a)   The total number of tons of solid waste accepted and disposed
based solely on the difference between the tare weight of each vehicle and/or
conveyance and the gross weight of each vehicle and/or conveyance as measured
on the scale;
         (b)   General type or types of solid waste accepted, transferred, or
rejected;
         (c)   Origin(s) of solid waste accepted;
         (d)   The date and time of delivery; and
         (e)   The hauler(s) that delivered solid waste to the facility;
      (2)   The operator of the facility shall implement an inventory system
and segregation procedure sufficient to enable identification of the sources of
all containers in storage at any time.
      (3)   The transfer station shall be so equipped, situated, operated and
maintained so as to minimize interference with other activities in the area.
   (B)   Operational requirements. A transfer station shall comply with the
following operational requirements:
      (1)   Each quarter, the facility shall submit an operating report to the
department on a form prescribed by the department. Quarterly reports shall be
due on the fifteenth day of April, July, October and January and include the
following information for each of the three preceding months:
         (a)   Monthly totals of tons of solid waste received, by county of
origin. Tonnage shall be determined by subtracting the tare weight of vehicles
and/or conveyances from the gross weight of the vehicles and/or conveyances as
measured on the scale;
         (b)   Number of incoming loads accepted at the facility;
         (c)   Number of loads and weight or volume of outgoing and rejected
waste, type of outgoing and rejected waste, and the destination of the outgoing
and rejected waste; and
         (d)   Other information as requested from time to time by the
department that is required by this chapter to be kept by the facility.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
COMPOSTING FACILITIES
§ 156.070 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following shall be established and maintained at the composting
facility:
   (A)   Records as approved and requested by the department shall be
maintained for three years and shall be accessible to the department. These
records shall show:
      (1)   The total number of tons of solid waste accepted and disposed based
solely on the difference between the tare weight of each vehicle and/or
conveyance, and the gross weight of each vehicle and/or conveyance.
      (2)   General type or types of solid waste accepted, passed through, or
rejected.
      (3)   Origin(s) of solid waste accepted or rejected by the facility.
      (4)   The date and time of delivery.
      (5)   The hauler(s) that delivered solid waste to the facility.
   (B)   The operator of a facility shall implement an inventory system and
segregation procedure adequate to enable identification of the type(s), origin
(s), and destination(s) of solid waste in storage at any time.
   (C)   The composting facility shall be situated, equipped, operated, and
maintained as to minimize interference with other activities in the area.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.071 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR YARD WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITIES.
   Yard waste composting facilities are subject to the following operational
requirements, in addition to those contained in §
156.095:
   (A)   Only yard waste, compostable bags, or similar vegetative waste as
specifically approved by the department may be accepted at the facility.
   (B)   Bagged waste shall be de-bagged within 72 hours after being delivered
to the facility, unless otherwise approved by the department.
   (C)   The facility operator shall take steps to prevent the incoming
material from undergoing anaerobic decomposition.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.072 BACKYARD COMPOST SITES.
   A backyard compost site shall be considered exempt from the requirements of
§§
156.045,
156.095 and
156.096 and may be allowed on a land parcel without a license under this
chapter. Backyard compost sites must comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Size of the compost pile shall not exceed ten cubic yards in size; and
   (B)   Operation of the site shall not create a public nuisance or any
conditions adversely affecting the environment or public health.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
EXISTING NON-CONFORMING SITES OR FACILITIES
§ 156.085 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING SITES OR FACILITIES.
   Non-licensed facilities in existence on the effective date of this chapter
shall be reported to the department and conform to the provisions of this
chapter. A record, including a map location of any area used for land disposal,
shall be filed at the office of the County Recorder and the department. Non-
licensed operations shall be terminated within one year of the effective date
of this chapter except as authorized by the department, or brought into
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
ABATEMENT, DISPOSAL, AND STORAGE OF WASTE ON REAL PROPERTY
§ 156.095 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   Solid waste accumulation. Except as otherwise allowed by this chapter,
owners and managers of every real property shall be responsible for maintaining
all open areas free of improperly stored solid waste accumulation.
   (B)   Limited exclusions. Nothing in this section shall unreasonably
restrict commonly accepted activities of farms and duly permitted automobile,
scrap iron, metal recyclers, or salvage operations that maintain such
operations in compliance with applicable ordinances and regulations and in an
orderly and nuisance free manner.
   (C)   Frequency of container service. Every property owner shall cause
container contents to be removed and deposited at a permitted disposal facility
at a frequency so as to not create a nuisance. Solid waste shall not be stored
on real property for more than two weeks. Solid wastes suitable and stored for
recycling may be contained if stored in an acceptable manner that avoids risk
to public safety and otherwise complies with this chapter.
   (D)   Hazardous waste storage. Hazardous wastes shall be stored in leakproof
containers which are adequately labeled, in a safe location and in compliance
with the regulations of federal, state (Minn. Rules Ch. 7045, as amended) and
local governments, and their regulatory agencies.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.096 ANTI-SCAVENGING.
   (A)   The scavenging or removal of recoverable or recyclable materials from
any facility or container in the county without the written consent of the
owner or operator shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Ownership of the separated recyclable materials set out by a customer
for collection by the recyclable collector shall be vested in the collector
servicing the person who is recycling. It shall be unlawful and an offense
against this chapter for any person other than the owner, lessee, or occupant
of a residence or commercial building, to pick up said separated recyclable
materials for any purpose.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.097 BURNING.
   Burning of solid waste prohibited. The burning of solid waste shall be
prohibited except as allowed at a permitted solid waste facility. Only the
burning of natural vegetative materials shall be allowed. The “Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources Burning Guidelines” dated 1994 are hereby
adopted as reference in this chapter.
   (A)   Permitted burning materials shall include vegetative materials such as
trees, brush, leaves, dry grass clippings and untreated/unpainted wood that
contains no glues or resins.
   (B)   Non-permitted burning materials shall include but not limited to the
burning of oils, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials such as treated
lumber, tires, railroad ties, shingles, wiring, paint, paint filters, particle
board, tar paper, sheetrock, cardboard, paper products, electronics, hazardous
wastes, household garbage.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.098 DEMOLITION WASTE.
   (A)   All demolition waste shall first be referred to landfills approved and
permitted by the MPCA for the disposal of demolition waste with the exceptions
noted below in division (B).
   (B)   This chapter authorizes the stockpiling of concrete, brick, and
asphalt at businesses in the asphalt and concrete industry for the purpose of
reuse or recycling. All other demolition waste shall comply with division (A)
of this section. The authorized the stockpiling of concrete, brick, and asphalt
shall be conducted in a manner that will protect the public health, welfare and
safety, prevent the spread of disease, prevent the creation of nuisances,
conserve natural resources, and protect the state’s water, air and land
resources.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.099 CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.
   (A)   Landfill disposal required. All construction debris shall be disposed
of in an approved and permitted MPCA landfill.
   (B)   Construction sites. Construction debris shall be contained to ensure
against littering.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.100 MAJOR APPLIANCES.
   (A)   A person may not place major appliances in mixed municipal solid
waste; or dispose of major appliances in or on the land or in a solid waste
processing or disposal facility.
   (B)   The disposal of major appliances in the land is prohibited, but the
storage at a collection or processing facility is permitted.
   (C)   No more than two major appliances may be stored outside within the
boundaries of any residential lot.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.101 MOTOR VEHICLES AND MACHINERY.
   (A)   Motor vehicles and machinery as solid waste. Motor vehicles or parts
of motor vehicles and machinery or parts of machinery shall be solid waste when
they are either not operable (inoperable) or not equipped with current license
plates or tabs issued to the vehicle (unlicensed) or are one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Container for other solid waste;
      (2)   Abandoned or disposed;
      (3)   Stored or outside of a fully enclosed building except as permitted
by this section; or
      (4)   Not stored on an impervious surface.
   (B)   Limited exemptions. The following are conditions that are considered
exempt from this section:
      (1)   Owners of land used primarily for farm/agricultural use are allowed
to store farm type machinery outside, in the rear yard, away from public view.
Machinery shall be stored in a manner which will not create a hazard to the
public health and safety.
      (2)   All landowners shall be allowed to store no more than one
inoperable and/or unlicensed motor vehicles outside, for a period of no more
than 30 days. Motor vehicles shall be stored in a manner which will not create
nuisance or a hazard to the public health and safety.
   (C)   Individual households who meet or exceed the provisions listed in this
section shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.102 WASTE TIRES.
   (A)   Land disposal prohibited. The disposal of waste tires in or on the
land is prohibited. This does not prohibit the storage of unprocessed waste
tires at a collection or a processing facility.
   (B)   Waste tire storage requirements.
      (1)   No more than five waste tires may be stored outside within the
boundaries of any lot. The allotted five waste tires shall be stored consistent
with the requirements of division (B)(4) through (B)(14).
      (2)   Exceptions to division(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(14) may be allowed
when waste tires are utilized outside of a building for decorative,
recreational, structural, construction or agricultural purposes where they
comply with the requirements of other applicable laws or sections of this
chapter.
      (3)   Waste tires shall not be stored outside within 1,000 feet of
intermittent or permanent wetlands, streams, ponds, and lakes, including
shoreland and floodplain areas.
      (4)   Waste tires shall not be stored outside within 1,000 feet of wooded
areas and other areas on which trees, tree stumps, and brush are located, which
could harbor mosquito populations.
      (5)   Waste tires within 1,000 feet of a residence shall be stored or
utilized in a manner that prevents water from being retained in the tires.
      (6)   Waste tires shall not be stored within one-half mile of a known or
suspected endemic area of mosquito-borne viral encephalitis or other diseases.
      (7)   Waste tires shall not be placed, stored, left, or permitted to
remain in a lake, stream, wetland, sink hole, gully, waterway, floodplain or
shoreland.
      (8)   Waste tires shall not be stored within an area which is unsuitable
with respect to topography, geology, hydrology, soils, land use, or other
public health and safety concerns.
      (9)   Waste tires shall not constitute a fire hazard.
      (10)   Waste tires shall be piled so as to minimize the accumulation of
stagnant water.
      (11)   Waste tires shall be stored a minimum of 50 feet from the adjacent
property line.
      (12)   Surface water drainage shall be diverted around and away from
waste tire storage areas.
      (13)   Adequate visual screening of waste tire storage areas from housing
or public right-of-ways shall be provided by use of natural objects, such as
trees, berms, fences, or other means deemed acceptable by the department.
      (14)   The owner of the land or premises upon which waste tires are
located in violation of this chapter shall be obligated to remove them to a
licensed solid waste facility.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.103 DUMPING.
   (A)   Unauthorized dumping. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to dispose of solid waste within the county at any place except at a
site or facility authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   Unlicensed open dumps.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to operate
an open dump.
      (2)   Waste placed in open dumps or illegally disposed of shall be
collected and transported to a licensed solid waste facility for proper
disposal. A receipt or other documentation approved by the department which
indicates satisfactory and legal disposal of the subject solid waste shall be
submitted to the department no later than 14 days after disposal.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
INSPECTIONS, VIOLATIONS, AND HEARINGS
§ 156.115 INSPECTIONS.
   All real property affected by this chapter shall be subject to inspection by
the county, MPCA, law enforcement officer, or their designees in accordance
with Minnesota Statutes and this chapter. After presentation of credentials,
the county, MPCA, law enforcement officer, or their designees may collect
samples for evidence or laboratory examination as deemed necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. No person shall refuse to permit the county, MPCA,
law enforcement officer, or their designees, to inspect any premises or
interfere with or resist the county, MPCA, law enforcement officer, or their
designees, in the discharge of their duty to protect the public health and
safety.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
§ 156.116 VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of this chapter or any license issued under this chapter, the
county may take any of the actions provided for in this section. These actions
shall not be deemed cumulative and the county may use any or all of the actions
in its discretion.
   (A)   Warning notice. The department may issue a warning notice as defined
in this chapter to any person or landowner alleged to have committed a
violation of this chapter or any license. A warning notice shall serve to place
the person on notice that compliance with specified ordinance requirements
shall occur to avoid additional enforcement actions. The department is not
required to issue a warning notice before the county proceeds with other
enforcement action.
   (B)   Notice of violation (NOV). The department may issue a notice of
violation (NOV) as defined in this chapter to any person or landowner alleged
to have committed a violation of this chapter or any license. A NOV shall serve
to place the landowner and the person alleged to have committed a violation on
notice that compliance with specified ordinance requirements shall occur to
avoid additional enforcement actions. The department is not required to issue a
NOV before the county proceeds with other enforcement action.
   (C)   Misdemeanor citation. Any person within the county who violates this
chapter or any license, or who shall permit such a violation to exist on the
premises under his control, or who shall fail to take action to abate the
existence of the violation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished therefore, as provided by law. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. The county, MPCA, Law Enforcement Officers, or their
designees, may issue citations for violations of this chapter or any license.
The citation shall be issued to the person charged with the violation, or in
the case of a corporation, to the supervisor at the site of the violation or
any officer or MPCA expressly implied authorized to accept such issuance.
   (D)   Abatement. In the event of an emergency abatement by the county as
described in division (D)(6) below, or if a property owner does not complete
corrective actions within the timelines given in a NOV, a stipulation
agreement, a court order, or any other notice to correct a violation, the
department may abate the violations by performing the corrective actions and
may recover the costs of the abatement action from the property owner through
the following procedures:
      (1)   Abatement order. An abatement order shall include the following:
         (a)   Notice that the property owner has not completed the corrective
actions within the time period required in the NOV(s), stipulation agreement,
court order, or other notice;
         (b)   Notice that the department or its agent intends to enter the
property and commence abatement of the conditions on the property that violate
this chapter within a specified period;
         (c)   Notice that the property owner shall correct the violation(s)
before expiration of the specified period to avoid any civil liability for the
costs of inspection and abatement that the county may incur; and
         (d)   A statement that if the property owner desires to appeal the
abatement order, the property owner shall file with the department a request
for an appeal hearing with the County Board that meets the requirements of
division (D)(3) below within ten calendar days, exclusive of the day of
service.
      (2)   Service. The abatement order shall be served on a property owner by
certified mail or personal service. Service by certified mail shall be deemed
complete upon mailing. If the property owner is unknown or absent and has no
known representative upon whom the abatement order can be served, the
department shall post the abatement order at the property. The posting shall
constitute the notice required under this section. The department shall send a
copy of the abatement order to the County Attorney’s Office.
      (3)   Right to appeal the abatement order.
         (a)   Request for hearing. The property owner’s request for a hearing
shall be in writing and shall state the grounds for appeal and be served
personally or by certified mail on the department no later than the close of
regular county business hours on the tenth calendar day following service of
the abatement order. Following receipt of a request for a hearing, the County
Board shall set a time and place for the hearing to be held pursuant to this
section.
         (b)   Stay of order. Pending the appeal hearing and final
determination by the County Board the department shall take no further action
on the abatement order.
      (4)   Abatement by the county. In the event a property owner does not
abate the ordinance violations or does not appeal the abatement order within
the applicable time period, the department may expend funds necessary to abate
the violation(s) in accordance with applicable county policies and procedures.
      (5)   Recovery of abatement costs.
         (a)   The department may pursue recovery of all costs, including
enforcement costs, from the property owner for abatement incurred by the
county, by any means allowable by law. The cost of any enforcement action may
be assessed and charged against the real property on which the violations are
located.
         (b)   The department shall keep a record of the costs of abatements
done under this chapter and report all work done for which assessments are to
be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots or parcels
involved and the amount assessable to each to the County Auditor by September 1
of each year.
         (c)   On or before October 1 of each year, the County Auditor shall
list the total unpaid charges for each abatement made against each separate lot
or parcel to which they are attributable under this chapter to the County
Board.
         (d)   The County Board may then spread the charges or any portion
thereof against the property involved as a special assessment, for
certification to the County Auditor and for collection the following year along
with current taxes.
      (6)   Emergency abatement by county. In the event of an imminent threat
to the public’s health, welfare and safety, the department shall have the
authority to immediately enter on to the property and abate the violations and
recover the costs as set out in division (D)(5) above. The department shall
attempt to give verbal notice to the property owner as soon as practicable and
written notice within ten county working days. The property owner shall have
the right to appeal the assessment of costs to the County Board pursuant to
this section.
   (E)   Stipulation agreement. The department and a person alleged to have
violated provision(s) of this chapter may voluntarily enter into a stipulation
agreement, whereby the parties to the agreement: identify conditions on the
property that require corrective action; agree on the corrective actions that
shall be performed by the person; and agree on the timelines in which the
corrective actions shall be completed. If the timelines have not been met as
agreed in the stipulation agreement, the county may abate the violations in
accordance with division (D) above. The parties may seek compliance with the
terms of the stipulation agreement through a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   License revocation. Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may
be revoked by the department for violation of any provision of this chapter or
any provision of a license.
   (G)   Status of financial assurance. Financial assurance issued for the
facility shall remain in full force and effect during all periods of
suspension, emergency suspension and revocation of the license and is subject
to claim by the county in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
the license.
   (H)   Commencement of a civil court action. In the event of a violation or a
threat of violation of this chapter or any license, the County Attorney may
also institute other appropriate civil actions or proceedings in any court of
competent jurisdiction, including requesting injunctive relief, to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations. The county
may recover all costs, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred for
enforcement of this chapter or license through a civil action. If a property
owner does not complete the corrective actions within the timelines in a court
order, the department may correct the violations and the department has the
authority to enter the property and perform the corrective actions. The
department may recover the costs of the same from the property owner through
the court process or through the process set out in division (D)(5) above.
(Ord. 22-2, passed 10-25-2022)
CHAPTER 157: POINT OF SALE SEPTIC CERTIFICATION
Section
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Intent and purpose
   
157.03   Definitions
   
157.04   Point of sale form for septic certification; exemptions; closing or
property transfers
   
157.05   Escrow accounts standard for non-compliant septic systems
   
157.06   Transfer of property prohibited; enforcement
   
157.07   Effective date
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Wright County
Point of Sale Septic System Certification Ordinance” (hereinafter, “WCPOS” or
“this chapter”).
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 157.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted under the general powers delegated to counties
by the state and pursuant to M.S. Ch. 103F, 103G, 115 and 116, as they may be
amended from time to time, and all enabling state rules based thereon.
   (B)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to:
      (1)   Regulate on-site subsurface sewage treatment systems (hereinafter
septic systems) throughout the county;
      (2)   Assure septic systems are regularly up-graded to meet with the
minimum state, county and local governing unit (hereinafter LGU) treatment
standards, and thereby to protect the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare of the county community; and
      (3)   To conserve the quality of the natural environment.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 157.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   BUYER. A person, group of persons, corporation or other entity
obtaining property from a seller by warranty deed, quit claim deed, probate
deed, contract for deed, trustee deed or through an equivalent instrument of
conveyance. The BUYER may also be referred to as the GRANTEE.
   (B)   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE (EXISTING SYSTEMS). A document properly
executed on a state prepared form by an authorized sewer inspector, indicating
that the septic system is compliant with current standards. The CERTIFICATE OF
COMPLIANCE shall be valid for a period of three years. During that three-year
time, no new CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE need be obtained by any buyer or seller
unless there is evidence of non-compliance. Any changes in the three-year time
line, as made by state statute or state rule, are incorporated by reference
herewith.
   (C)   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE (NEW CONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT). A county
form or a form used by a municipality located in the county which is executed
by an authorized sewer inspector. This is typically a final inspection form and
it shall indicate that the septic system is compliant with current standards by
passing the final installation inspection. It shall be used for situations
involving a new sewer on a new building site or a new sewer on a pre-existing
site. Said certification is valid for a period of five years. During that five
year time, no new CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE need be obtained by any buyer or
seller unless there is evidence of non-compliance. Any changes in the five-year
time line, as made by state statute or state rule, are incorporated by
reference herewith.
   (D)   CLOSING. The final transaction or meeting between the buyer and the
seller, whereby the conveyancing documents are concluded and the money and
property transfer.
   (E)   ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH OFFICE. The county’s office or environmental
health inspectors charged with the responsibility for administering septic
system rules, ordinances and standards.
   (F)   LOCAL GOVERNING UNIT (LGU). Wright County or all cities or towns lying
in whole or in part within the county that are recognized by the state to
enforce the regulations, statutes and rules pertaining to subsurface sewage
treatment systems.
   (G)   NOTICE OF NON-COMPLIANCE. A document properly executed on a state
prepared form by an authorized sewer inspector, indicating that the septic
system is not in compliance with current standards.
   (H)   POINT OF SALE FORM. A document properly executed on a form and
entitled “Wright County Point of Sale Septic System Certificate”, which has
been approved for use by the County Environmental Health Office. The POINT OF
SALE FORM is further defined to include the county-prepared escrow summary
form, when applicable.
   (I)   SELLER. A person, group of persons, corporation or other entity
conveying property to a buyer by warranty deed, quit claim deed, probate deed,
contract for deed, trustee deed or by an equivalent instrument of conveyance.
The SELLER may also be referred to as the GRANTOR.
   (J)   TRANSFER. To convey a parcel of real property from a seller to a buyer
by warranty deed, quit claim deed, probate deed, contract for deed, trustee
deed or other equivalent instrument of conveyance.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 157.04 POINT OF SALE FORM FOR SEPTIC CERTIFICATION; EXEMPTIONS; CLOSING OR
PROPERTY TRANSFERS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Point of sale form. No owner of real property shall enter into a
contract for deed, sell or transfer to another party said property unless the
following requirements are met.
         (a)   The seller shall complete a county point of sale form. The point
of sale form shall be signed by both the seller (grantor) and buyer (grantee)
to the transaction. The seller shall provide the buyer with a copy of the form,
along with the escrow summary form or certificate of compliance, when
applicable. The seller shall file the point of sale form and any attachments
with the County Auditor/Treasurer at the time of recording the transfer.
         (b)   The seller shall attach to the point of sale form an unexpired
certificate of compliance for existing systems, or an unexpired certificate of
compliance for new construction or replacement, for all septic systems on the
property, unless an exemption in divisions (B) or (C) below applies.
      (2)   Certificate of compliance. A certificate of compliance is valid
through the expiration date stated on the certificate of compliance or by the
application of state statutes and Minnesota Rules which govern the use and
installation of subsurface sewage treatment systems.
   (B)   Exempt transactions. A new certificate of compliance, as required
under division (A) above, does not need to be obtained and filed with the point
of sale form if the closing and property transfer involves at least one of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The property is vacant, or all septic systems on the property have
been properly abandoned pursuant to state law;
      (2)   A certificate of real estate value is not required to be filed with
the County Auditor/Treasurer, as provided under M.S. § 272.115, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   The transaction is exempt from the imposition of tax pursuant to
M.S. § 287.22, subparts (6), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14) and (15), as they may
be amended from time to time. References to this exemption may be omitted or
listed separately on the point of sale form;
      (4)   All dwellings and other buildings with plumbing fixtures that are
connected to a municipal wastewater treatment system;
      (5)   The transfer is due to a tax forfeiture. The exemption of this
division (B)(5) applies to the transfer of the property from the tax debtor to
the taxing entity. The exemption may be omitted from the point of sale form;
      (6)   The sale or transfer completes a contract for deed; or
      (7)   A valid certificate of compliance (existing systems) or certificate
of compliance (new construction or replacement) is on file with an LGU. This
exemption requires the following conditions to be met:
         (a)   The existing certificate of compliance must be on file with the
LGU;
         (b)   The LGU must verify the validity of the existing certificate of
compliance pursuant to the applicable Minnesota Statutes and Rules which govern
the regulation and inspection of subsurface sewage treatment systems prior to
the closing and property transfer;
         (c)   The LGU must sign the point of sale form and certify the “valid
thru” or expiration date for the certificate of compliance on the point of sale
form; and
         (d)   The closing and property transfer must occur prior to the
certified “valid thru” or expiration date.
   (C)   Closing or property transfer without the required certificate of
compliance. If the compliance status is unknown or the existing septic system
is non-compliant, and the seller has not brought the system into compliance
prior to the closing or property transfer, the closing or property transfer may
be allowed upon approval by the County Environmental Health Office, and by
establishing an escrow account pursuant to §
157.05 of this chapter. The compliance inspection, upgrade or replacement shall
take place on the schedule provided in the approved escrow agreement. The buyer
shall be responsible for ensuring that the septic system is brought into
compliance pursuant to the escrow agreement when a closing or property transfer
occurs pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 157.05 ESCROW ACCOUNTS STANDARD FOR NON-COMPLIANT SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   In situations where §
157.04(C) of this chapter applies, an escrow agreement is required to be
established and approved by the County Environmental Health Office prior to
closing or property transfer. The parties to the transfer or closing as well as
the escrow agent are responsible for ensuring that the escrow agreement
complies with this chapter. The approval from the County Environmental Health
Office shall be limited to ensuring that the escrow agreement meets the
standards outlined in this section. The County Environmental Health Office
shall not provide or publish a sample escrow agreement.
   (B)   The escrow agreement shall at minimum include the following terms and
conditions.
      (1)   The agreement shall recite the cash amount, irrevocable letter of
credit amount, or similar liquid negotiable instrument amount that is being
escrowed. The amount to be escrowed shall at a minimum be at least one and one-
half times a reasonably calculated bid to meet all septic system inspection,
upgrade or replacement costs. The County Environmental Health Officer shall
have the discretion to determine whether or not the amount to be escrowed is
reasonably adequate.
      (2)   The agreement shall specify a date by which time a certificate of
compliance must be obtained, but in no case may the date exceed nine months
from the date of closing or property transfer.
      (3)   The agreement shall clearly identify the person acting as the
escrow agent, the company acting as the escrow holder, including the person’s
and institution’s full name, address and phone number.
      (4)   The agreement must identify the banking institution where the funds
will be held.
      (5)   The escrow agreement shall specify that funds can only be released
by the escrow agent upon the written approval of the County Environmental
Health Office. The County Environmental Health Office can only authorize the
release of funds when the property is fully compliant with the terms of this
chapter and a certificate of compliance had been filed with the County
Environmental Health Office.
      (6)   The agreement shall specify who is supplying or arranging for the
escrow money or escrow surety instrument.
      (7)   The agreement shall be signed by the seller, the buyer and the
escrow agent and dated.
      (8)   Prior to the approval of any escrow agreement, the County
Environmental Health Office may require that the buyer or seller obtain and
attach a copy of a septic system permit.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 157.06 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED; ENFORCEMENT.
   No real property in the county shall be transferred unless the buyer
(grantee) and seller (grantor) to the transaction have complied with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective the day following final adoption.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity that violates, or
assists in violating, any of the provisions of this chapter or who makes any
false statement on the point of sale form or any attached document under this
chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity that violates the terms
of an approved escrow agreement as provided in §
157.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of this chapter, in addition to other
remedies, the County Attorney may institute appropriate actions or proceedings
to prevent, enjoin, restrain, correct or abate such violations.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-9-2011)a
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Minnesota Regulations
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites              Code Section
13                      156.012
15.73, subd. 3          51.03
                        152.079,
15.99                   155.028,
                        155.136
18C.60—18C.62         95.02
35.01, subd. 3          90.05
40A                     155.105
84.415                  155.056
85                      92.05
86B                     92.05
86B.005                 131.03
86B.205                 131.02
97C                     92.05
103B.101, subd. 12a     96.02,
                        96.99
103B.301—103B.335     152.002
103B.301—103B.3355    95.02
103E                    96.01,
                        96.02
103E.005, subd. 9       96.02
103E.005, subd. 12      96.02
103E.021, subd. 1       96.04
103F                    155.056,
                        157.02
                        96.01,
                        96.04,
103F.48                 96.05,
                        152.025,
                        152.031
103F.48, subd. 1(c)  96.02
103F.48, subd. 1(d)     96.02
103F.48, subd. 1(g)     96.02
103F.48, subd. 3        96.04
103F.48, subd. 3(b)     96.04
103F.48, subd. 3(c)     96.04
103F.48, subd. 5        96.04
103F.48, subd.7         96.02
103F.48, subd. 7(b)     96.05
103F.48, subd. 7(c)     96.05
103F.48, subd. 7(d)     96.05
103F.48, subd. 9        96.99
103F.201—103F.227     96.01
103F.205                155.056
103F.401, subd. 7       96.02
103G                    157.02
103G.005                155.003
103G.005, subd. 14      155.056
103G.005, subd. 15a     155.090
103G.245                155.056
103G.301—130G.315     155.058,
                        155.101
103G.311                155.058
                        155.090,
115                     156.35,
                        157.02
115.01                  155.056,
                        156.003
115.55                  155.090
115A                    156.001,
                        156.003
115A.02                 156.002
115A.46                 156.002
115A.46, subd. 5        156.007
115A.932                156.048
115B.02                 156.003
                        152.009 ,
116                     156.001,
                        156.003,   
                        157.02,
116.03                  152.009
116.07, subd. 7         152.002,
                        152.003
116.07, subd. 7a        152.094
120A.05                 155.003,
                        155.112
120A.05, subd. 9        155.135
120A.05, subd. 11       155.135
120A.05, subd. 13       155.135
120A.05, subd. 17       155.135
120A.24                 155.112
123B.41, subd. 9        155.003
123B.41, subd. 10       155.003
144.391                 110.002
144.417, subd. 4(a)     112.02
144.50                  155.003
                        93.01,
                        93.20, ,
145A                    112.07,
                        112.08,
                        155.090 ,
                        156.001
145A.02                 93.03
145A.04                 112.02
145A.05                 97.01,
                        112.02
145A.05, subd. 1        97.01,
                        130.01
145A.05, subd. 7        97.01
                        93.25,
145A.08                 93.26,
                        93.44
152                     92.02
152.01, subd. 4         93.03
152.0263                97.04
                        97.01,
152.0263, subd. 5       112.02,
                        155.112
                        93.01,
152.0275                93.03,
                        93.20,
                        93.44
152.0275, subd. 2       93.48
216B.02                 51.03
216B.02, subd. 4        51.03
216B.02, subd. 6        51.03
216B.1642               155.108
216B.2422, subd. 1(f)   155.098
216C.06, subd. 14       155.026
216D                    51.20
216D.01—216D.09       51.48,
                        51.53
216D.04, subd. 3        51.03,
                        51.51
216F                    155.107
237.16                  51.01
                        51.01,
237.162                 51.03,
                        51.49
237.162, subd. 4        51.03
                        51.01,
237.163                 51.03,
                        51.49
237.163, subd.2(b)      51.02
237.79                  51.01
237.81                  51.01
238                     51.03
238.086                 51.01
245.462, subd. 23       155.112
245A.02                 155.135
245G                    155.003
272.03, subd. 1         156.003
272.115                 157.04
272.12                  154.36
272.19                  154.14
278                     111.04
278.02—278.13         111.04
287.22, subpart (6)     157.04
287.22, subpart (10)    157.04
287.22, subpart (11)    157.04
287.22, subpart (12)    157.04
287.22, subpart (13)    157.04
287.22, subpart (14)    157.04
287.22, subpart (15)    157.04
298                     156.003
298.75                  111.01
299J.05                 155.098
302A                    51.21
307.08                  155.003
308A                    51.03
326B.082                151.99
326B.101—326B.194     151.04
326B                    151.01
326B.121                151.03
327.70, subd. 5         155.003
327B                    155.003
331A.01, subd. 10       112.14
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1) 130.06
                        112.02,
342                     112.03,
                        112.13
                        97.01,
342.01                  155.003,
                        155.112
342.01, subd. 12        112.03
342.01, subd. 50        112.03,
                        155.112
342.01, subd. 52        112.03
342.06, subd. (d)       112.03
342.09, subd. 1(a)(7)   97.01
342.09, subd. 1(b)      97.01
342.09, subd. 1(b)(9)   97.01,
                        97.04
342.13(c)               155.112
342.13(h)               112.13
342.17                  155.112
342.185, subd. 1(g)     112.03
342.22                  155.112
342.22, subd. 2         112.05
342.22, subd. 3(b)      112.06
342.22, subd. 4         112.10
342.22, subd. 5         112.06,
                        112.13
342.22, subd. 5(e)      112.04,
                        112.13
342.24, subd. 1         112.07
342.24, subd. 4         155.112
342.27, subd. 2(c)      112.07
342.27, subd. 2(d)      112.07
342.27, subd. 2(e)      112.07
342.27, subd. 3         112.07
342.27, subd. 5         112.07
342.27, subd. 8         155.112
342.27, subd. 9         155.112
342.27, subd. 10        155.112
342.27, subd. 11        155.112
342.27, subd. 12        112.07
342.28, subd. 3         155.112
342.39                  112.03
342.40                  91.05,
                        112.03
342.46, subd. 6         112.07
342.46, subd. 7         112.07
342.51, subd. 5         112.07
342.515                 112.03
342.62                  112.07
342.62, subd. 3         112.03
342.63                  112.07
342.64                  112.07
342.64, subd. 2(b)      112.03
344.02, subd. 1(a)—1(d155.056
346.37, subd. 1         90.12
347                     90.06
347.50—347.565        90.01,
                        90.04
347.51, subd. 2a        90.08
347.515                 90.08,
                        90.11
347.54, subd. 3         90.12
364                     155.003
                        93.01 ,  
375                     112.02,  
                        156.001
375.40                  91.01
375.51                  131.02
375.51, subd. 3         112.14
                        96.01,
                        96.04,
                        152.002,
394                     155.003,
                        155.056,
                        155.112  
                        155.056
394.21—394.37         154.14
394.26                  155.026,
                        155.031
394.27, subd. 7         155.003,
                        155.056
394.307                 30.10
394.307, subd. 9        30.10
394.33                  155.056
394.36, subd. 4         155.097
394.361                 150.01
394.37, subd. 1         155.999
400                     156.001,
                        156.003
400.08, subd. 2         156.005
453                     51.03
453A                    51.03
461.12                  110.001
461.12, subd. 1         110.009,
                        110.025
461.12, subd. 2a        110.999,
                        112.13
462                     96.04
462.357                 155.112
466.02                  93.05
473                     156.003
505                     154.36
505.01, subd. 3         154.36
505.01, subd. 9         154.36
505.01, subd. 11        154.36
508.47                  155.003
541.07                  96.99
561                     156.001
609.02, subd. 7a        90.05
609.02, subd. 8         90.05
609.03                  151.99,
                        155.999
609.205, clause (4)     90.14
609.226, subd. 1        90.14
609.226, subd. 2        90.14
609.232, subd. 11       93.03
609.487, subd. 2a       93.03
609.74                  156.001
624.20                  94.02
626.862                 10.20
631.48                  10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Cites Code Section
Minn. Rules Cites                 Code Section
1719                              152.033
2960.045—2960.0490              155.003
4715                              155.090
4725                              155.090
4725.4350                         155.056
6120.2500                         155.057 ,
                                  155.059
6120.2500, subpart 18a            155.003
6120.3800                         155.057 ,
                                  155.059
6120.5000                         155.056
6120.5000—6120.6200             155.056
6120.5600, subpart 4              155.056
7020                              152.003,
                                  152.008
7020.0100—7020.2225             152.002
7020.0300, subpart 5              152.009,
                                  155.003
7020.0350, subpart 1              152.090
7020.0350, subpart 4              152.090
7020.0405, subpart 1A             152.077
7020.0405, subpart 1 B            152.077
7020.0535, subpart 5              152.095
7020.1600, subpart 2              152.075
7020.1600, subpart 4a             152.076
7020.2003, subparts 4—6         152.091
7020.2100                         152.027,
                                  152.037
7020.2225                         152.036
7030                              155.107
7035                              156.047
7035.0300                         155.056
7045                              156.095
7050                              152.009
7080                              155.090
7080—7083                       155.090
7080.1100, subpart 84             155.090
7080.1500, subpart 4a             155.090
7080.1500, subpart 4b             155.090
7080.2150                         155.090
7080.2200—7080.2230             155.090
7080.2210, subpart 4, § F, item 2155.090
7080.2260                         155.090
7080.2270                         155.056,
                                  155.090
7080.2290                         155.090
7080.2350                         155.090
7080.2400                         155.090
7080.2450                         155.090
7080.2450, subpart 2              155.090
7080.2500                         155.090
7081                              155.090
7081.0270, subparts 3—7         155.090
7082.0600, subpart 1(B)           155.090
7082.0700, subpart 2              155.090
7083                              155.090
7083.0700                         155.090
7819.0050—7819.9950             51.01
7819.1000, subd. 3                51.23
7819.1100                         51.03,
                                  51.49
7819.1300                         51.50,
                                  51.51
7819.1250                         51.56
7819.3100                         51.52
7819.3100, subd. 2                51.55
7819.3200                         51.55
7819.4000                         51.51
7819.4100                         51.51
7819.5000                         51.49,
                                  51.52
7819.5100                         51.52
7819.9900—7819.9950             51.03,
                                  51.45
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA REGULATIONS
 
Minn. Regulations Cites Code Section
NR 78-81                155.058
NR 79(i)(2)             155.058
NR 79(j)(2)             155.058
6120.5000—6120.6200   155.056
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
75-28    7-1-1975    150.02
                     91.01—
96-36    7-9-1996    91.09,
                     91.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     154.01—
                     154.15,
                     154.30—
-        12-11-1979  154.36,
                     154.50—
                     154.53,
                     154.99
                     94.01—
85-3     2-12-1985   94.13,
                     94.99
-        8-30-1988   155.105
89-1     12-5-1989   154.07
-        11-10-1998  30.01—
                     30.09
                     95.01—
04-01    1-20-2004   95.09;
                     95.99
                     51.01—
                     51.06,
                     51.20—
06-01    4-4-2006    51.30,
                     51.45—
                     51.59,
                     51.99
                     152.001—
                     152.010,
                     152.025—
                     152.037,
                     152.050—
06-02    4-4-2006    152.061,
                     152.075—
                     152.079,
                     152.090—
                     152.095,
                     152.110—
                     152.117
07-01    2-27-2007   151.01,
                     150.99
                     151.01—
99-02    6-10-2008   151.05,
                     151.99
09-01    4-7-2009    50.01
                     90.01—
                     90.09,
10-01    1-19-2010   90.11—
                     90.15,
                     90.99
                     157.01—
11-02    8-9-2011    157.07,
                     157.99
                     93.01—
                     93.07,
                     93.20—
11-06    11-29-2011  93.27,
                     93.40—
                     93.48,
                     93.99
                     130.01—
12-02    8-28-2012   130.08,
                     130.99
                     110.001—
                     110.011,
                     110.025—
                     110.035,
13-02    10-8-2013   110.050—
                     110.055,
                     110.070,
                     110.72—
                     110.074,
                     110.999
                     131.01—
14-01    5-13-2014   131.08,
                     131.99
                     92.01—
14-02    5-13-2014   92.10,
                     92.99
-        8-15-2015   131.04
                     155.003,
                     155.047—
-        7-28-2015   155.055,
                     155.057,
                     155.108
-        8-15-2-15   131.04
                     155.003,
                     155.008,
                     155.030,
-        12-1-2015   155.050,
                     155.055,
                     155.078,
                     155.097,
                     155.107
                     155.003,
16-01    --          155.047,
                     155.048,
                     155.109
                     151.01,
                     154.36,
                     155.003,
                     155.056,
16-2     --          155.058,
                     155.088,
                     155.090,
                     155.097,
                     155.108,
                     155.109
16-3     6-14-2016   131.04
16-3a    6-14-2016   131.04
                     30.01,
16-4     8-16-2016   30.04—
                     30.08
16-5     8-16-2016   30.10
                     152.025,
                     152.031,
16-6     10-18-2016  155.047—
                     155.051,
                     155.088,
                     155.103
16-7     11-1-2016   155.108
                     155.003,
16-8     12-27-2016  155.047—
                     155.054,
                     155.098
17-1     6-27-2017   131.09
                     110.028,
17-2     11-14-2017  110.033,
                     110.034,
                     110.999
                     155.003,
17-3     --          155.048,
                     155.110
18-1     3-13-2018   31.01
                     96.01-
18-3     6-5-2018    96.05,
                     96.99
                     155.003,
                     155.048,
                     155.050,
18-2     6-19-2018   155.051,
                     155.055,
                     155.086,
                     155.108
                     152.010,
                     155.003,
                     155.005,
                     155.030,
                     155.048,
                     155.052,
                     155.056,
                     155.057,
                     155.058,
                     155.059,
                     155.081,
18-4     6-19-2018   155.084,
                     155.087,
                     155.090,
                     155.091,
                     155.097,
                     155.099,
                     155.100,
                     155.101,
                     155.105,
                     155.106,
                     155.107,
                     155.108
18-6     10-3-2018   155.110
19-4     8-27-2019   155.003,
                     155.048
                     110.003—
                     110.006,
                     110.008,
                     110.026,
19-5     9-24-2019   110.035,
                     110.051,
                     110.054,
                     110.055,
                     110.999
19-3     10-22-2019  92.03,
                     92.07
19-6     11-19-2019  155.081
                     155.003,
20-1     12-29-2020  155.048,
                     155.111
21-2     3-16-2021   154.36
21-3     4-27-2021   155.108
                     110.003,
                     110.007,
                     110.008,
                     110.026,
21-4     11-30-2021  110.027,
                     110.032,
                     110.035,
                     110.051—
                     110.054,
                     110.999
21-5     1-18-2022   155.003,
                     155.108
21-5A    1-18-2022   155.003,
                     155.108
                     156.001—
                     156.012,
                     156.025—
                     156.031,
                     156.045—
                     156.048,
22-2     10-25-2022  156.060,
                     156.070—
                     156.072,
                     156.085,
                     156.095—
                     156.103,
                     156.115,
                     156.116
                     111.01—
22-3     11-1-2022   111.06,
                     111.99
                     155.003,
                     155.025,
                     155.027,
22-4     11-29-2022  155.029,
                     155.047,
                     155.049—
                     155.055 
22-5     2-7-2023    110.026,
                     110.035
                     155.003,
                     155.011,
                     155.025,
                     155.030,
                     155.031,
                     155.047—
                     155.057,
                     155.076,
                     155.077,
                     155.081,
                     155.083,
23-1     5-2-2023    155.087—
                     155.090,
                     155.092,
                     155.097,
                     155.100,
                     155.101,
                     155.103,
                     155.104,
                     155.106—
                     155.111,
                     155.135,
                     155.999
23-2     5-16-2023   115.108
                     97.01—
23-3     8-15-2023   97.04,
                     97.99
                     150.01,
                     155.025—
23-4     12-19-2023  155.028,
                     155.098,
                     155.999
                     91.02,
                     91.03,
24-1     4-2-2024    91.05,
                     91.06,
                     91.08,
                     91.99
                     110.002,
                     110.003,
                     110.006,
                     110.008,
                     110.009,
                     110.025,
24-3     11-5-2024   110.026,
                     110.028,
                     110.030,
                     110.035,
                     110.051,
                     110.056,
                     110.057,
                     110.999
                     155.003,
24-4     6-4-2024    155.008,
                     155.056
                     90.01,
                     90.03,
24-6     11-5-2024   90.05—
                     90.14,
                     90.99
                     155.003,
24-7     12-3-2024   155.053—
                     155.055,
                     155.112
24-8     12-18-2024  112.01—
                     112.14
                    
 
