TOWN CODE
of
GUERNSEY, WYOMING
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-003, passed 6-4-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Guernsey, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2024-003, passed June 4, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-001
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE 2016-06; ESTABLISHING RATES FOR SEWER SERVICE
FOR THE TOWN OF GUERNSEY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GUERNSEY, WYOMING.
There is hereby established the following monthly rates for sewer provided to
consumers by the Town of Guernsey.
 
ALL sewer connection to the Town of Guernsey system will incur a Connection Fee
of $4.00 per month until services are severed.
 
                                                      05/1/201   5/1/2022   5/1/2023
SECTION 1:   Residential Customers
a)   One household or family units only            $16.00/    $18.00/    $20.00/
                                                      month      month      month
SECTION 2:   Apartment Complexes & Trailer Courts (Per Unit)
a)   Each individual unit in complex or court      $16.00/    $18.00/    $20.00/
                                                      month      month      month
SECTION 3:   Commercial
a)   One Business                                  $16.00/    $18.00/    $20.00/
                                                      month      month      month
SECTION 4: Industrial
                                                      $25.00/               $32.50/
                                                      month      $30.00/    month
a)   One Industrial Business                    $5,300.00/ month      $5,300.00/
b)   BNSF basic, subject to change based on BOD’smonth      $5,300.00/ month
                                                     $175.00/   month      $225.00/
c)   AMVC basic, subject to change based on BOD’smonth      $200.00/   month
                                                                month       
                                                                             
 
SECTION 5:    All other ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby
repealed. This ordinance shall become effective for the May 2021 billing
periods as noted above.
 
Passed and approved on this 16th day of February 2021 on 1st reading.
Passed and approved on this 2nd day of March 2021 on 2nd reading.
Passed and approved on this 20th day of April 2021 on 3rd and final reading.
 
 
                                       
                     Nicholas Paustian, Mayor
Attest
 
               
Kate Farmer, Clerk/Treasurer
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 06-07-002
AN ORDINANCE FOR REVISING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF GUERNSEY, WYOMING, AND ADOPTING THE GUERNSEY TOWN CODE.
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and town council of the town of Guernsey, Wyoming,
as follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of Wyoming Statutes 15-1-115 and 15-1-
116, and from and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town code of
the town of Guernsey, Wyoming prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the town,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official town code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the town clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official town
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official town code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: Any violation of any provision of the code hereby adopted shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or
imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or both, unless an ordinance within
the code specifically provides for its own penalty.
   Section 6: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 7: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
   Passed and approved on this 21st day of July, 2005.
   Passed and approved on this 2nd day of August, 2005.
   Passed and approved on this 16th day of August, 2005.
[IMAGE]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE 1 :
Upon the adoption by the town council, this town code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Guernsey. This town
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the GUERNSEY TOWN CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal document. (1987 Code §§ 1-1 and 1-2; amd.
2005 Code)
 
Notes
  1. For state law as to authority of town to cause compilations, codifications
  and comprehensive revisions of ordinances, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxxviii). As
1 to the manner and form of enactment of codifications or general revisions of
  ordinances, see WS § 15-1-115. As to publication of recodification of
  ordinances, see WS § 15-1-116. As to adoption of state codes by reference see
  WS § 15-1-119.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2005 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2005 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the town clerk-treasurer. Said code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the city and shall be returned to the office of the town clerk-treasurer when
directed to do so by order of the town council. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this town
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
town; and all special ordinances. (1987 Code § 1-3; amd. 2005 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2005 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (1987 Code § 1-4; amd.
2005 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (Ord. 87-4-1,
4-21-1987; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Catchlines
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION 1 :
In the construction of this code and all ordinances of the town, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless they are
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the town council or the context
clearly requires otherwise:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CODE: The municipal code of the town of Guernsey.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME 2 : The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day unless the last day
is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case, the period shall run
until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
   COUNTY: Platte County, Wyoming.
   GENDER: Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
   GOVERNING BODY: The council constituting the elected legislative body of the
town of Guernsey.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
IN THE TOWN; IN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE TOWN: Includes any territory within
the corporate limits of the town, the police jurisdiction thereof and any other
territory over which regulatory power has been conferred on the town by general
or special act.
   JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons.
   MAY: Permissive.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY: The town of Guernsey.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   NUMBER: Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn"
are equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Guernsey".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner
of the whole but also any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint
tenant of the whole or a part of such building or land and shall include any
agent of such owner, and where such owner is a body corporate, it shall include
the managing agent or officer within the town.
   PERSON: Includes a firm, partnership, association of persons, corporation,
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   SHALL: Mandatory.
   SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE: The state of Wyoming.
   STATE LAW: The Wyoming Statutes, as amended.
   STREET: Includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other
public thoroughfares in the town.
   TENANT; OCCUPANT: When applied to a building or land, shall mean any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   TOWN: The town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
   TOWN COUNCIL: Consists of the elected or appointed council persons and,
together with the mayor, shall constitute the legislative body of the town.
   WHOLESALER; WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters; provided, that in all cases where the written
signature of a person is required, the proper handwriting of such person, or
his mark, shall be required.
   YEAR: A calendar year. (1987 Code § 1-5; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. For definitions and rules of construction for statutes generally, see WS §§
  8-1-102 and 8-1-103.
2 2. For state law as to legal holidays, see WS §§ 8-4-101 through 8-4-106.
1-3-2: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Definitions
1-4-2: General Penalty
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Restitution
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any crime for which there is a plea of guilty, nolo
contendere or verdict of guilty upon which a judgment of conviction may be
rendered and any other crime which is admitted by the defendant, whether or not
prosecuted.
   PECUNIARY DAMAGE: All damages which a victim could recover against the
defendant in a civil action arising out of the same facts or event, except
punitive damages and damages for pain, suffering, mental anguish and loss of
consortium. Pecuniary damage includes damages for wrongful death.
   RESTITUTION: Full or partial payment of pecuniary damages to a victim.
   VICTIM: A person who has suffered pecuniary damages as a result of a
defendant's criminal activities. (1987 Code § 1-8)
1-4-2: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty; Remedies Generally: Whenever in this code or in any
ordinance, resolution or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the
town under authority vested by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or is
declared to be unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty
is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any
such ordinance, resolution or regulation shall be punished by a fine of not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus court costs unless
otherwise specified in this code, provided that the imposition of any such fine
shall not bar institution of appropriate legal actions or proceedings by the
town to restrain, correct or abate the violations, nor shall the institution of
such legal action or proceedings be deemed a bar to the imposition of such
fine.
   B.   Separate Offense: Except as otherwise provided, each day any violation
of this code or any such ordinance, resolution or regulation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1987 Code § 1-8; amd. Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See WS §§ 5-6-301, 6-10-103, and 15-1-103(a)(xli). See WS § 6-10-105 for
  commitment for refusal to pay fine or costs; rate per day.
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter, unless otherwise provided, shall
be applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this town code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this town code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (2005 Code)
1-4-4: RESTITUTION:
   A.   Amount Determined By Court: At the time of sentencing a defendant for
any misdemeanor conviction, if the court desires to require restitution, the
court shall fix a reasonable amount as restitution owed to each victim for
pecuniary damages resulting from the defendant's criminal activity, and shall
include its determination as a special finding in the judgment of conviction.
   B.   Execution Against Defendant: The court may issue execution against the
defendant for any assets including wages which would be subject to attachment
to satisfy the order.
   C.   Admissibility As Evidence In Civil Action: The court's determination of
the amount of restitution owed under this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action. (1987 Code § 1-8)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the town council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Regular Meetings
1-5-2: Special Meetings
1-5-3: Emergency Meetings
1-5-4: Meetings Open To Public
1-5-5: Disruption Of Council Meetings
1-5-6: Executive Sessions
1-5-1: REGULAR MEETINGS 1 :
Regular public meetings of the town council shall be held on the first and
third Tuesday of each month at the hour of six o'clock (6:00) P.M., in the
council chambers, town hall, unless previously arranged otherwise. (Ord. 00-08-
002, 9-14-1999; eff. 10-1-1999; amd. Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
  1. For state law as to town council meetings, see WS § 15-1-105. For state law
1 authorizing town council to determine rules for the conduct of its proceedings,
  see WS § 15-1-1-6. As to publication of minutes of meetings and titles of
  ordinances passed, see WS § 15-1-110.
1-5-2: SPECIAL MEETINGS 1 :
Special meetings of the town council may be called by the mayor by giving
notice of the meeting to each member of the town council and to each newspaper
of general circulation, radio or television station requesting the notice. The
notice shall specify the time and place of the special meeting and the business
to be transacted. No other business shall be considered at such meeting. (1987
Code § 2-15)
 
Notes
1 2. For state law as to special meetings of governing body, see WS § 16-4-404.
1-5-3: EMERGENCY MEETINGS:
The town council may hold an emergency meeting on matters of serious and
immediate concern to take temporary action without notice. Reasonable effort
shall be made to offer public notice. All action taken at an emergency meeting
is of a temporary nature and in order to become permanent shall be reconsidered
and acted upon at a regular or special meeting of the town council within forty
eight (48) hours. (1987 Code § 2-16)
1-5-4: MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC 1 :
   A.   Open To Public: All meetings of the town council and all other boards,
commissions and agencies of the town shall be open to the public at all times,
except as provided in section 1-5-5 of this chapter. No action of such a body
shall be taken except during a public meeting.
   B.   Required Information: A member of the public shall not be required, as
a condition of attendance at any meeting, to register his name, to supply
information, to complete a questionnaire or fulfill any other condition
precedent to his attendance except that a person seeking recognition may be
required to give his name and affiliation. (1987 Code § 2-11)
 
Notes
1 1. For state law regarding open meetings, see WS § 16-4-403.
1-5-5: DISRUPTION OF COUNCIL MEETINGS 1 :
If any council meeting is wilfully disrupted by a person or group of persons so
as to render the orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be
restored by the removal of the person or persons who are wilfully interrupting
the meeting, the town council may order the removal of the person or group from
the meeting room and continue in session, or may recess the meeting and
reconvene at another location. Only matters appearing on the agenda may be
acted upon in a meeting recessed to another location. (1987 Code § 2-12)
 
Notes
1 2. For state law regarding disruption of public meetings, see WS § 16-4-406.
1-5-6: EXECUTIVE SESSIONS 1 :
Executive sessions of the town council and all other boards, commissions and
agencies of the town may be held:
   A.   Threat To Security Or Public Right Of Access: With the town attorney,
chief of police or their respective deputies, or other officers of the law, on
matters posing a threat to the security of public or private property or a
threat to the public's right of access.
   B.   Appointment, Employment, Right To Practice, Dismissal Or Complaints Of
Public Officer, Professional Person Or Employee: To consider the appointment,
employment, right to practice or dismissal of a public officer, professional
person or employee, or to hear complaints or charges brought against an
employee, professional person or officer, unless the employee, professional
person or officer requests a public hearing. The governing body may exclude
from any public or private hearing during the examination of a witness, any or
all other witnesses in the matter being investigated. Following the hearing or
executive session, the governing body may deliberate on its decision in
executive session.
   C.   Litigation: On matters concerning litigation to which the town is a
party or proposed litigation to which the town may be a party.
   D.   Administering Or Grading Examinations: When the agency is a licensing
agency while preparing, administering or grading examinations.
   E.   Purchase Of Real Estate: To consider the selection of a site or the
purchase of real estate when the publicity regarding the consideration would
cause a likelihood of an increase in price.
   F.   Acceptance Of Gifts, Donations And Bequests: To consider the acceptance
of gifts, donations and bequests which the donor has requested in writing be
kept confidential.
   G.   Classified Or Confidential Information: To consider or receive any
information classified as confidential by law.
   H.   Wages, Salaries, Benefits And Terms Of Employment: To consider
accepting or tendering offers concerning wages, salaries, benefits and terms of
employment during all such negotiations. (1987 Code § 2-13)
 
Notes
1 3. For state law regarding executive sessions, see WS § 16-4-405.
CHAPTER 6
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Officers; Election, Appointment And Removal
1-6-2: Terms Of Appointment
1-6-1: OFFICERS; ELECTION, APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL 1 :
The officers of the town shall be a mayor and four (4) council members, all of
whom shall be elected. All other appoints and removals shall be in a manner
determined by the governing body pursuant to the general powers granted cities
and town. (Charter Ord. 2, 6-1-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-2-102 modified by charter ordinance to read as set forth in this
  chapter.
1-6-2: TERMS OF APPOINTMENT:
The clerk-treasurer, police chief, and town superintendent may be discharged
and that employment terminated at any time by a majority vote of the governing
body. (Charter Ord. 2, 6-1-2004)
CHAPTER 6
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. PERSONNEL POLICY
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Adopted By Reference
1-6A-1:   ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
As of September 9, 1997, the town has adopted and will use the "Town of
Guernsey Personnel Manual" and all town employees shall follow all regulations
set forth in the personnel manual as adopted and amended from time to time.
(Ord. 98-08-001, 9-9-1997; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Municipal Judge
1-7-2: Court Procedure
1-7-3: Bail
1-7-4: Work Program (Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
1-7-1: MUNICIPAL JUDGE 1 :
   A.   Appointments: The mayor, by and with the consent of the town council,
shall appoint a municipal judge and may appoint an alternate municipal judge,
who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. (1987 Code § 9-1)
   B.   Duties: The duties of the municipal judge or alternate municipal judge
shall be to preside at all regular or special sessions of the municipal court.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The municipal judge shall have exclusive jurisdiction of
and shall hear and determine all cases arising under this code and other
ordinances of the town.
   D.   Forms, Practice And Procedure: The forms, practice and procedure before
such municipal judge in such cases, unless otherwise provided in this code or
other town ordinances, shall conform as closely as possible to the forms,
practice and procedure before circuit court judges of the state, insofar as
such practices and procedures may be applicable.
   E.   Powers: The municipal judge shall have the power to impose fines of no
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any one offense, to which
may be added costs. He shall have the authority to enforce due obedience to
this code and all other town ordinances, rules and judgments made by him. He
shall have the same power as does the district court in the issuance of
warrants, subpoenas or other process that may be necessary, and may fine or
imprison for contempt offered while holding court or to process issued, in the
same manner and to the same extent as does the district court. (1987 Code § 9-
2)
   F.   Surety Bond: The municipal judge and alternate municipal judge shall be
required to execute to the town a bond in the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), conditioned substantially that he will well and truly perform all
the duties of his office as is or may be prescribed by state law, this code and
other ordinances of the town, and shall, with all reasonable skill, diligence,
good faith and honesty, safely keep and be responsible for all funds coming
into his hands by virtue of his office, and pay over without delay to the
person authorized by state law, this code and other ordinances of the town to
receive such, all monies which may come into his hands by virtue of his office,
and shall well and truly deliver to his successor in office, or such other
person as is authorized by law to receive such monies, books, papers and all
else held by him as such officer. (1987 Code § 9-3; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to municipal judges generally, see WS §§ 5-6-102 through
  5-6-105.
1-7-2: COURT PROCEDURE 1 :
   A.   Complaint; Issuance Of Warrant: Actions for violations of this code or
other town ordinances may be commenced by filing with the municipal judge a
statement or complaint stating the nature of the offense, signed by any member
of the police department or any other person, which complaint shall be made in
accordance with the forms required by law. If any person shall, on oath, make
complaint that anyone has violated this code or any other ordinance of the
town, setting forth the section of the code or other town ordinance which has
been violated, the municipal judge may issue a warrant for the apprehension of
the offender. (1987 Code § 9-4)
   B.   Citation In Lieu Of Complaint: In addition to the procedure for
issuance of citations now provided by law, a citation in lieu of a formal
complaint may be issued charging any violation of the ordinances of the town
for which any fine is specified, provided:
      1.   Waiver Of Formal Complaint: The potential defendant has waived the
right to have a formal complaint filed against him and has signed a promise to
appear in Municipal Court;
      2.   Advisement Of Right To Sworn Complaint: Prior to such waiver, the
potential defendant has been advised that he need not consent to the issuance
of the citation and that he has a right to have his case prosecuted upon a
sworn complaint. (1987 Code § 9-5)
   C.   Entry On Court Docket; Issuance Of Summons: Upon the filing of such
statement or complaint, the Municipal Judge shall enter the case upon his
docket in the manner required by law, and shall issue a warrant or summons
returnable forthwith or at such time, no longer than ten (10) days, as he may
designate. (1987 Code § 9-6)
   D.   Appearance Of Complainant At Trial: No person who shall file a
complaint in the Municipal Court which results in the arrest or the citation to
the Municipal Court of the person complained of, shall wilfully fail, neglect
or refuse to appear for the trial of such arrested or cited person and testify
in support of the complaint. The Police Department shall provide such
complaining person a written notice of the time for trial of such person
arrested or cited pursuant to such complaint. (1987 Code § 9-7)
   E.   Dismissal For Defects In Form: No action before the Municipal Judge
shall be dismissed for any defect of form in the statement or complaint if it
substantially sets forth the nature of the violation alleged so as to give the
defendant notice of the charge which is required to be answered. Such statement
or complaint may include several persons charged with the same offense. (1987
Code § 9-8)
   F.   Change Of Venue: No change of venue shall be granted in any case
arising under this Code or other ordinances of the Town. (1987 Code § 9-9)
   G.   Judgment By Default: Should a defendant duly summoned fail to appear in
Municipal Court at the time his case is set for trial, the Municipal Judge
shall hear and examine the testimony offered on the part of the Town and shall
render judgment by default against the defendant for such amount under this
Code or other Town ordinances as the Municipal Judge shall deem just. (1987
Code § 9-10)
   H.   Costs:
      1.   Levy Of Court Costs: Upon each conviction on a complaint filed in
the Municipal Court, the Municipal Judge shall levy and collect, in addition to
any fine 2  imposed, court costs as established by the Supreme Court of the
State of Wyoming and the fine and costs so collected shall be remitted to the
Town Treasurer.
      2.   Acquittal Of Defendant: When a defendant is acquitted in any
prosecution, the complainant may, in the discretion of the Municipal Judge, be
adjudged to pay the costs of the proceeding if it appears to the Municipal
Judge that the prosecution was instituted maliciously or without reasonable
cause, and judgment shall be so rendered and execution shall issue therefor.
(1987 Code § 9-11)
      3.   Service Charges: Upon each conviction on a complaint filed in the
Municipal Court, when such complaint arises from title 2 of this Code excluding
section
2-1-17, "Open Container"; or title 4 or 5, section
4-2-5, maintaining a vicious animal; 4-2-6, "Cruelty To Animals"; 4-2-9,
breaking into the pound; or 5-11-5, fleeing or attempting to elude, of this
Code the Municipal Judge will levy a service charge in an amount not less than
the minimum charge as determined by the Wyoming State Legislature for the
Wyoming Crime Victims Compensation Fund and shall pay at the end of each month
the amount of service charges collected to the Wyoming Crime Victims
Compensation Fund. This service charge shall be paid in cash by the offender.
The Municipal Judge will collect this service charge after all fines, costs or
forfeitures are collected. (1987 Code § 9-11; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
   I.   Witness Fees 3 : Witnesses appearing in the Municipal Court of the Town
on behalf of the Town shall be entitled to such fees as are allowed to
witnesses appearing in circuit courts of the State. (1987 Code § 9-12)
 
Notes
1 1. See WS § 5-6-106.
2 1. WS § 5-6-303.
3 1. WS §§ 1-14-102, 1-14-103, as amended.
1-7-3: BAIL:
   A.   Admission: Any person charged with an offense under any provision of
this Code or other ordinances of the Town shall be admitted to bail. (1987 Code
§ 9-13)
   B.   Terms: Any person charged with an offense shall be ordered released
pending trial on his personal recognizance or upon the execution of an
unsecured appearance bond in an amount specified by the municipal judge, unless
the municipal judge determines, in the exercise of his discretion, that such a
release will not reasonably ensure the appearance of the person as required or
that the person's release will endanger the safety of any other person or the
community. When such a determination is made, the municipal judge shall, either
in lieu of or in addition to the above methods of release, impose the first of
the following conditions of release which will reasonably ensure the appearance
of the person for trial or, if no single condition gives that assurance, any
combination of the following conditions: (1987 Code § 9-14; amd. 2005 Code)
      1.   Place In Custody Of Designated Person Or Organization: Place the
person in custody of a designated person or organization agreeing to supervise
him;
      2.   Place Restrictions On Travel, Association Or Place Of Abode: Place
restrictions on the travel, association, or place of abode of the person during
the period of release;
      3.   Require Appearance Bond: Require the execution of an appearance bond
in a specified amount and the deposit in cash, or other security as directed,
of a sum not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the amount of the bond, such
deposit to be returned on the performance of the conditions of release;
      4.   Require Bail Bond: Require the execution of a bail bond with
sufficient solvent sureties or the deposit of cash in lieu thereof;
      5.   Impose Other Conditions: Impose any other condition deemed
reasonably necessary to assure appearance as required, including a condition
requiring that the person return to custody after specified hours. (1987 Code §
9-14)
   C.   Failure To Appear:
      1.   Entry Of Judgment: If any defendant shall fail to appear according
to the conditions of the bond, or appearing, shall depart the court without
leave, the municipal judge may enter judgment against him and his sureties for
the penalty of such bond.
      2.   Issuance Of Process: Upon entering such judgment, the municipal
judge shall issue process in behalf of the town against the parties liable on
such bond, requiring them to appear before him on a day to be mentioned therein
and show cause, if any, why judgment should not be confirmed against them, and
execution issued on such judgment.
      3.   Judgment Set Aside: Any judgment so entered may be set aside by the
municipal judge if the defendant shall personally appear before him at the time
named in such process and show good cause for setting aside the judgment. The
sureties in such bond may appear before the municipal judge at the time
aforesaid and make the same defense that is allowed for the nonappearance of
the principal under the laws of this state in similar cases before the circuit
court judge. (1987 Code § 9-15)
1-7-4: WORK PROGRAM:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 8
CONFISCATED OR ABANDONED PROPERTY 1
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Disposition
 
Notes
  1. For state law as to disposition of property seized under authority of search
1 warrant, see WS § 7-7-103. As to disposition of intoxicating beverages, see WS
  § 12-3-102. For power of town to remove and sell abandoned motor vehicles, see
  WS § 15-1-103.
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   ABANDONED PROPERTY: Any item of personal property coming into the possession
of the town, its officers or employees, which property remains unclaimed by the
owner for a period of ninety (90) days.
   CONFISCATED PROPERTY: Any item of personal property taken by any police
officer of the town from any person when, under the circumstances, the
possession by such person was a violation of the laws of the state. (1987 Code
§ 6-1)
1-8-2: DISPOSITION:
   A.   Abandoned Property: Any abandoned property in the possession of the
town shall be sold by the town clerk-treasurer in conformity with the laws of
the state and the proceeds therefrom placed in the general fund.
   B.   Confiscated Property: Any confiscated property shall be exhibited to
the municipal judge who shall examine such property, record a description of
the confiscated items in the docket and note the date that such property was
exhibited. Upon final disposition of the case in the event of a conviction, the
municipal judge shall, as part of the judgment, order the confiscated property
turned over to the town clerk-treasurer for sale or disposal.
   C.   Items Other Than Alcoholic And Malt Beverages, Weapons And Controlled
Substances: At least once during a calendar year, the town clerk-treasurer
shall sell all items confiscated during the preceding year, except alcoholic
and malt beverages, weapons and controlled substances. The property shall be
sold at public auction for cash to the highest bidder after notice published by
the town clerk-treasurer in the official newspaper of the town one time at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of the sale. The notice shall describe
the items to be sold and the time and place of the sale. All proceeds from the
sale shall be placed in the general fund.
   D.   Alcoholic And Malt Beverages, Weapons And Controlled Substances: Any
alcoholic and malt beverages, weapons or controlled substances confiscated
shall, immediately after the court order becomes final, be destroyed under the
supervision of the town clerk-treasurer and the chief of police. (1987 Code §
6-2; amd. Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Compliance With Provisions
2-1-3: License Required
2-1-4: Malt Beverage Permits
2-1-5: Clubs
2-1-6: Restaurants
2-1-7: Fees
2-1-8: Term
2-1-9: License Issuance And Renewals
2-1-10: Transfer Of Annual License
2-1-11: Regulations And Restrictions As To Places Of Sale
2-1-12: Drive-In Facilities
2-1-13: Inspection Of Licensed Premises
2-1-14: Display Of License
2-1-15: Hours Of Operation
2-1-16: Prohibited Acts
2-1-17: Open Container
2-1-18: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
2-1-19: Penalty
2-1-20:  Alcohol Server Certification Required
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirituous or fermented fluid, substance or compound
other than malt beverage intended for beverage purposes which contains at least
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume. As used in this section,
"beverage" does not include liquid filled candies containing less than six and
one-quarter percent (6.25%) of alcohol by volume.
   ANNUAL LICENSES: Those liquor licenses issued by the Town which are valid
for a period of one year, and are renewable annually, and shall include retail
liquor licenses, limited retail (club) licenses, and restaurant liquor
licenses.
   BUILDING: A roofed and walled structure built or set in place for permanent
use.
   CLUB: Any of the following organizations:
   A.   A post, charter, camp or other local unit composed only of veterans and
its duly organized auxiliary, chartered by the Congress of the United States
for patriotic, fraternal or benevolent purposes and, as the owner, lessee or
occupant, operates an establishment for these purposes within the Town.
   B.   A chapter, lodge or other local unit of an American national fraternal
organization and, as the owner, lessee or occupant, operates an establishment
for fraternal purposes within the Town. As used in this chapter, an American
fraternal organization means an organization actively operating in not less
than thirty six (36) states or having been in active continuous existence for
not less than twenty (20) years, but does not mean a college fraternity.
   C.   A hall or building association of a local unit specified in subsections
A and B of this definition, of which all of the capital stock is owned by the
local unit or its members, operating clubroom facilities for the local unit.
   D.   A golf club having more than fifty (50) bona fide members and owning,
maintaining or operating a bona fide golf course together with a clubhouse.
   E.   A social club with more than one hundred (100) bona fide members who
are residents of Platte County, owning, maintaining or operating club quarters,
incorporated and operating solely as a nonprofit corporation under the laws of
this State and qualified as a tax exempt organization under the Internal
Revenue Service Code and having been continuously operating for a period of not
less than one year. The club shall have had during this one year period a bona
fide membership paying dues of at least twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year
as recorded by the Secretary of the club, quarterly meetings and an actively
engaged membership carrying out the objects of the club. A social club shall,
upon applying for a license, file with the Town Council and the Wyoming State
Liquor Commission a true copy of its bylaws and shall further, upon applying
for a renewal of its license, file with the Town Council and the Wyoming State
Liquor Commission a detailed statement of its activities during the preceding
year which were undertaken or furthered in pursuit of the objects of the club
together with an itemized statement of amounts expended for such activities.
Club members, at the time of application for limited retail liquor license,
pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-301, shall be in good standing by
having paid at least one full year in dues.
   F.   Club does not mean college fraternities or labor unions.
   INDUSTRY REPRESENTATIVE: All wholesalers, manufacturers, rectifiers,
distillers and breweries dealing in alcoholic liquor or malt beverage, and
proscriptions upon their conduct shall include conduct by any subsidiary,
affiliate, officer, director, employee, agent, broker or any firm member or
such entity.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR, ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE AND SPIRITUOUS
LIQUOR: These terms are construed as synonymous in meaning and definition.
   LICENSEE: A person holding a:
   A.   Retail liquor license;
   B.   Limited retail liquor license;
   C.   Malt beverage permit;
   D.   Restaurant liquor license;
   E.   Catering permit; or
   F.   Bar and grill liquor license.
   LIMITED RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: The authority under which clubs shall be
permitted to sell alcoholic and malt beverages.
   MALT BEVERAGE: Any fluid, substance or compound intended for beverage
purposes manufactured from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute
therefor, containing at least one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by
volume.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any receptacle or container used or labeled by the
manufacturer of the substance containing any alcoholic liquors or malt
beverages.
   PERMIT: A temporary liquor license issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
   PERMITTED: A person holding one or more of the following temporary licenses
or permits:
   A.   Malt beverage permit;
   B.   Extended hours permit; or
   C.   Catering permit;
   D.   Open container permit.
   PERSON: An individual person, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company or any other association or entity, public or private.
   RESIDENT: A domiciled resident and citizen of Wyoming for a period of not
less than one year who has not claimed residency elsewhere for any purpose
within a one year period immediately preceding the date of application for any
license authorized in this chapter.
   RESTAURANT: The space in a building maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for on premises consumption and where the primary source of revenue
from the operation is from the sale of food and not from the sale of alcoholic
or malt beverages. The building shall have a dining room or rooms, a kitchen
and the number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing, cooking and
serving of meals in order to satisfy the licensing authority that the space is
intended for use as a full service restaurant. "Full service restaurant" means
a restaurant at which waiters or waitresses deliver food and drink offered from
a printed food menu to patrons at tables or booths. The service of only fry
orders or such food and victuals as sandwiches, hamburgers or salads shall not
be deemed a restaurant for the purposes of this chapter.
   RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: The authority under which a retailer shall be
permitted to sell alcoholic or malt beverages for use or consumption but not
for resale.
   RETAILER: A person who sells or offers for sale any alcoholic or malt
beverage for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SELL OR SALE: Offering for sale, trafficking in, bartering, delivering or
dispensing and pouring for value, exchanging for goods, services or patronage
or an exchange in any way other than purely gratuitously. Every delivery of any
alcoholic liquor or malt beverage made otherwise than by gift constitutes a
sale.
   TEMPORARY LICENSES: Those liquor permits or licenses which are issued by the
Town for specific times, not to exceed a twenty four (24) hour period for each
time, and shall include malt beverage permits, extended club hours, catering
permits, and open container permits.
   WHOLESALER: Any person, except the Wyoming Liquor Division, who sells any
alcoholic or malt beverage to a retailer for resale.
   WYOMING LIQUOR DIVISION: The Wyoming Liquor Division within the Department
of Revenue. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
For the protection of the welfare, health, peace, morals and safety of the
residents and citizens of the Town, it is hereby declared to be a public policy
in the Town that the sale, distribution, possession and traffic of alcoholic
liquor and malt beverage shall be regulated to the extent that all such
activity be, and the same hereby is, prohibited, except as provided in this
chapter, and that no sale at retail or possession of such substances shall
occur within the jurisdictional limits of the Town except as authorized in this
chapter, and the exceptions provided in Wyoming Statutes section 12-1-101 et
seq., reserving certain powers to the State. It is the intent of this chapter
to totally comply and coincide with the provision of the Wyoming Statutes
section 12-1-101 et seq., which regulate such substances. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-
2017)
2-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person shall possess for sale, sell or dispense any
alcoholic or malt liquor without first obtaining a license to do so and paying
the license fees therefor.
   B.   Application: Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall
apply to the Town Council for the same. Such application shall be made upon a
form prepared by the Attorney General and shall meet the requirements
prescribed by applicable Wyoming Statutes.
   C.   Publication Of Notice: Upon receipt of a properly completed application
for an annual license, or renewal thereof, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
promptly prepare a notice of application, place a copy of the notice at a
conspicuous place at the location shown in the application and publish the
notice in a newspaper of local circulation once a week for two (2) consecutive
weeks. The notice shall state that a named applicant has applied for a license,
renewal or transfer thereof, and that protests against the issuance, renewal or
transfer of the license will be heard at a designated meeting of the Town.
Notices will meet the requirements of this section if they are in substantially
the following form:
NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR AN ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSE
Notice is hereby given that on the day of          20    , (Name of applicant)
filed an application for a license in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer of the
Town of Guernsey for the following described place (and room): (Insert
description) Protests, if any there be, against the (issuance, transfer or
renewal) of the license will be heard at the hour of      .m., on the day of
        , 20      in the (designated meeting place).
Dated       Signed
         Town Clerk/Treasurer
 
   D.   Hearings: Any annual license authorized under this chapter shall not be
issued, renewed or transferred until on or after the date is set in the notice
for hearing protests. In a renewal or transfer hearing, the hearing shall be
held not later than thirty (30) days preceding the expiration date of the
annual license. An annual license shall not be issued, renewed or transferred
if the Town finds from evidence presented at the hearing that:
      1.   The welfare of the people residing in the vicinity of the proposed
annual licensed premises shall be adversely and seriously affected;
      2.   The purpose of this chapter will not be carried out by the issuance,
renewal or transfer of the annual license;
      3.   The number, type and location of existing annual licenses meet the
needs of the vicinity under consideration;
      4.   The desires of the residents of the Town will not be met and
satisfied by the issuance, renewal or transfer of the annual license; or
      5.   Any other reasonable restrictions or standards which may be imposed
by the Town shall not be carried out by the issuance, renewal or transfer of
the annual license.
   E.   Appeal Of Denials; Renewal Applicants Only: No applicant for a license
under this chapter shall have a right of appeal from the decision of the
Governing Body denying an application except applicants holding a license which
is expiring and who are applying for a renewal. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-4: MALT BEVERAGE PERMITS:
A malt beverage permit may be issued for the sale of malt liquors only at a
picnic, bazaar, fair, rodeo or similar public gathering. No person holding such
permit shall sell any alcoholic liquor except malt liquor on the premises
described on the permit. The permit shall be issued for one (1) 24-hour period
and shall not authorize the sale of malt liquors on the premises described for
more than twelve (12) 24-hour periods by any one person in any one year by the
same permittee. The permit may be issued upon application by the Governing Body
without notice. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-5: CLUBS:
   A.   Limited Retail Liquor License Required: Clubs shall be licensed under a
limited retail liquor license.
   B.   Consumption On Premises: No club holding a limited retail license shall
sell alcoholic or malt beverages for consumption anywhere except in the
licensed premises and for consumption by its members and guests. It shall be
the duty and obligation of each club to check and regulate the sale to members
and guests and any and all alcoholic or malt beverages sold by it shall be
consumed in the licensed premises. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-6: RESTAURANTS:
   A.   Restaurant License Applications: Restaurant license applications shall
be governed as follows:
      1.   An applicant for a restaurant liquor license shall satisfy the
Governing Body that the primary source of revenue from the operation of the
restaurant to be licensed will be derived from the sale of food services and
not from the sale of alcoholic or malt beverages.
      2.   When renewing of restaurant liquor license, the Governing Body shall
condition renewal upon a requirement that not less than sixty percent (60%) of
gross sales from the preceding twelve (12) months operation of a licensed
restaurant be derived from food services.
      3.   Upon application for license renewal, a license holder shall submit
an annual report to the Governing Body on the sales of the licensed restaurant.
The report shall contain the annual gross figures of the restaurant and shall
separate the gross sales figures into the following categories:
         a.   Food service sales; and
         b.   Alcoholic and malt beverage sales.
   B.   Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Restaurant liquor licenses shall not sell alcoholic or malt
beverages for consumption off the premises owned or leased by the licensee.
      2.   Alcoholic and malt beverages shall be dispensed and prepared for
consumption in one room upon the licensed premises separated from the dining
area in which alcoholic and malt beverages may be served.
      3.   All sales of alcoholic and malt beverages authorized by a restaurant
liquor license shall cease at the time food sales and services cease or if food
sales and services extend beyond the hours specified then alcohol service shall
cease at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-7: FEES:
   A.   Retail Liquor Dealer: Every person licensed as a retail liquor dealer
shall pay an annual fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Club: Every club licensed under a limited retail liquor license shall
pay an annual fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   C.   Malt Beverage Permit: Every person issued a permit pursuant to section
2-1-4 of this chapter shall pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
   D.   Open Container Permit: Every person issued a permit pursuant to section
2-1-3 of this chapter shall pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
   E.   Catering Permit: Every person issued a permit pursuant of section
2-1-3 of this chapter shall pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
   F.   Restaurant: Every restaurant licensed under a restaurant license shall
pay an annual fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   G.   Fees Nonrefundable: No refund of all or any part of any license fee
shall be made at any time following the issuance thereof. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-
2017)
2-1-8: TERM:
   A.   Expiration Date: Annual licenses shall be valid for a period of not
more than one year, and shall be a personal privilege of the licensee. Annual
licenses shall be renewed prior to the expiration date in accordance with the
schedule established by the Clerk/Treasurer and sent to the licensees. (Ord.
2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-9: LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWALS:
The owner or holder of an expired annual license, or one due for expiration,
has a preference right to a new license for the same location. After the
required notice and public hearing, each application claiming renewal
preference shall be promptly considered and acted upon by the Council. (Ord.
2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-10: TRANSFER OF ANNUAL LICENSE:
A person seeking to transfer an annual license shall submit a new application
form and shall pay to the Clerk/Treasurer at the time of such application a
nonrefundable additional license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
transfer application shall be accompanied with an amount sufficient to cover
the costs of publishing the required statutory notice. The transfer application
shall be set for public hearing and otherwise considered by the Governing Body
in a manner consistent with Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-601. (Ord. 2017-008,
11-7-2017)
2-1-11: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS AS TO PLACES OF SALE:
   A.   Location:
      1.   Retail Liquor License: The place in which alcoholic and malt
beverages are sold under a retail liquor license shall be located in one
building, at such location upon the premises for which the retail liquor
license is issued and shall be approved by the Governing Body.
   B.   Items Sold: Only alcoholic and malt beverages, nonalcoholic beverages,
food and tobacco may be sold and served in the licensed room.
   C.   Inspections: All places licensed under this chapter shall be open for
inspection by any peace officer at any time and such officers may enter therein
without a search warrant for such purposes.
   D.   Separation Of Certain Facilities: The retail licensee may maintain an
area for the sale of alcoholic and malt beverages for off premises consumption.
In such cases the facility for making sales for off premises consumption shall
be located adjoining the facility for making sales for on premises consumption.
The two (2) facilities may be separated by a glass or other suitable partition
if they are connected by a doorway to permit persons to pass freely between the
two (2) facilities. No additional fee shall be assessed against a licensee who
separates the licensed premises in this manner. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-12: DRIVE-IN FACILITIES:
Upon approval of the Town in the original application, or the renewal thereof,
a drive-in area adjacent or contiguous to the licensed room may be used by the
holder of a retail liquor license for taking orders, making delivery of and
receiving payment for alcoholic liquor or malt beverages under the following
conditions:
   A.   The holder of the retail liquor license shall own the area or hold a
written lease for the period of time for which the license was issued;
   B.   No part of the area used for orders, delivery and making payment shall
be more than forty feet (40') distant from the licensed room;
   C.   The area shall be well lighted and subject to inspection by the Town at
any and all times;
   D.   No walls or screens shall interfere with observing and checking the
part of the area used for orders, delivery and payment;
   E.   No order shall be received from, nor delivery made to, a person under
the age of twenty one (21) years or to an intoxicated person in the area;
   F.   No part of a publicly owned sidewalk, highway, street or alley shall be
used for taking orders or conducting sales; and
   G.   Alcoholic liquor and malt beverages shall be sold and delivered in the
drive-in area only in the original, unopened package, and consumption of
alcoholic liquor or malt beverage in the drive-in area shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-13: INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES:
The Town may inspect any licensed premises and any locations where alcoholic
liquors or malt beverages are served, sold, dispensed or brewed at any time the
Town in its sole discretion deems appropriate to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and the health and safety requirements imposed
upon the premises. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-14: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee or permittee shall display the license or permit issued in a
conspicuous place viewable by the public near the location where the alcoholic
liquors or malt beverage are dispensed. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-15: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Licensees may begin alcoholic or malt beverage sales in the licensed
building at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and shall close and cease the sale of both
alcoholic and malt beverages promptly at the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day. In addition, licensees shall clear the licensed building of
all persons other than bona fide employees by two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M.
   B.   Hours of operation may be modified on no more than four (4) days each
calendar year where all license holders may sell alcoholic or malt beverages
for up to twenty four (24) hours as approved by the Governing Body. All license
holders shall have the same dates. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-16: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Bottle Club: No person shall operate a bottle club.
   B.   Minors:
      1.   Serve Or Deliver; Allow To Enter Or Remain:
         a.   No holder of a license, his servant or employee, shall sell, give
or deliver alcoholic or malt beverages to any person under twenty one (21)
years of age or permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to enter
or remain in the place in which alcoholic or malt beverages are sold.
         b.   Any person who sells, furnishes, gives or causes to be sold,
furnished or given away any alcoholic or malt beverage to any person under
twenty one (21) years of age, who is not his legal ward, medical patient or
member of his own immediate family, is guilty of a misdemeanor. This subsection
does not apply to sales by the commission or a wholesaler to a licensee, as
defined under title 12, Wyoming State Statutes.
      2.   Purchase; Possession; Under The Influence:
         a.   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection, "under the
influence" shall mean that alcohol is present in the system and is detectable
by the smell of alcohol upon the breath of the individual or by blood alcohol
or breathalyzer test.
         b.   Prohibited: No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall
purchase, attempt to purchase or have any alcoholic or malt beverage in his
possession or shall be under the influence of alcoholic or malt beverages.
      3.   False Identification: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
shall falsify any identification or use any false identification in order to
obtain alcoholic or malt beverages.
      4.   Exceptions:
         a.   Retail Food Service: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall enter or remain in any establishment which sells alcoholic or malt
beverages; except a person under the age of twenty one (21) years may enter and
remain in any room in which a regular retail food service is conducted and
which room adjoins a licensed room.
         b.   Dining Room Or Waiting Area Within Dispensing Room:
            (1)   Definitions: As used in this subsection, the following words
and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   ADULT: A person over the age of twenty one (21) who is the parent or legal
guardian of the person under the age of twenty one (21).
   DINING OR WAITING AREA: A specifically delineated area which has been
submitted with the licensee's application and has been approved by the
Governing Body.
            (2)   Presence Allowed: This subsection does not apply to a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years if the underage person is in a dining
room or waiting area within the dispensing room with an adult not later than
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         c.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to possession of
alcoholic or malt beverages by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years:
            (1)   When making a delivery of alcoholic or malt beverages
pursuant to his employment;
            (2)   Who is dispensing or serving alcoholic or malt beverages or
otherwise working in a dispensing room pursuant to his employment, if the
person was at least nineteen (19) years of age on or before July 1, 1988.
      5.   Consumption On Private Property; Appearance In Public: No person
under the age of twenty one (21) shall consume alcohol upon public property or
upon private property unless that property is owned by the person's parents,
nor shall any person under the age of twenty one (21) appear on any public
property or in any public place within the Town of Guernsey with evidence of
said consumption present even if the consumption occurred in the person's home
with the consent of his or her parents. For the purpose of this section
evidence of consumption is present when the smell of alcohol is upon the breath
of the minor or when alcohol is shown to be in the bloodstream as the result of
a breathalyzer or blood test. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-17: OPEN CONTAINER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession or automobile any
open container which contains any alcoholic beverage in any public place
including streets within the Town except those establishments licensed to serve
alcoholic beverages or within the confines of such places where the sale,
dispensing or consumption of alcoholic liquors or malt beverages has been
licensed or permitted pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-2-202 or this
chapter. For charter transportation services licensed pursuant to Wyoming
Statutes section 12-2-202, each vehicle operating under the license must have
conspicuously displayed in the rear window a copy of the license issued by the
State. Provided, however, the Town Council, by resolution, from time to time
can designate places and times during which this section shall not apply. (Ord.
2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-18: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Cause: In addition to any other penalty which may be imposed pursuant
to the provisions of this Code or State law, the violation of any provision of
this chapter by any licensee may be sufficient cause for the suspension or
revocation of the license by the Town Council.
   B.   Civil Action: An action to revoke any license or permit for the reason
that the license was unlawfully granted; or that the licensee or permittee was
not entitled to receive the same; or that the place of sale in which alcoholic
or malt liquors are sold under such license is not a proper place for sale of
the same; or that the licensee or permittee is permitting activities in such
place of sale forbidden by ordinance or which are detrimental to the welfare,
health, morals and safety of the people of the Town; or that the licensee or
permittee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, may be brought in
the name of the Town. Such action shall be civil in nature and commenced as are
civil actions. (Ord. 2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-19: PENALTY:
The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord.
2017-008, 11-7-2017)
2-1-20: ALCOHOL SERVER CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
All licensees and all managers and supervisory personnel employed at any
licensed building and/or premises shall participate in and complete a Wyoming
Liquor Division approved alcohol server training program as established in
Wyoming Statutes sections 12-2-401 and 12-2-402 as amended. Such training shall
be provided within three (3) months of obtaining any new or transfer liquor
license, or any renewal annual liquor license; or within three (3) months of
accepting employment as a manager or supervisor. Unless otherwise trained
through the certified state training program above, non-supervisory employees
shall receive alcohol server training from those persons so trained at the time
of employment and at least annually during the term of employment.
(Ord. 2019-006, 10-1-2019)
CHAPTER 2
TOBACCO 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Prohibited Sales Or Delivery
2-2-3: Posted Notice; Location Of Vending Machines
2-2-4: Purchase By Minors
2-2-5: Possession Or Use By Minors
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 14-3-301 et seq.
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
                  Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing
                  tobacco or dipping tobacco.
                  Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device
VENDING MACHINE:  which, upon insertion of money, tokens or other form of
                  payment, dispenses tobacco products. (Ord. 91-12-001, 3-10-
                  1992; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 3- 17-2020)
 
2-2-2: PROHIBITED SALES OR DELIVERY:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver
tobacco products to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   B.   Violation: Any person violating subsection A of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution
under subsection A of this section that:
      1.   In the case of a sale, the person who sold the tobacco product was
presented with, and reasonably relied upon, an identification card which
identified the person buying or receiving the tobacco products as being over
twenty-one (21) years of age; or
      2.   The tobacco product was given or delivered to the person under
twenty-one (21) years of age by his parent or guardian and the tobacco product
was given or delivered to the person for use in the privacy of his parent's or
guardian's home or under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian.
(Ord. 91-12-001, 3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 3-17-2020)
2-2-3: POSTED NOTICE; LOCATION OF VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   Posting Required: Any person who sells tobacco products shall post
signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided by this chapter at
or near every display of tobacco products and on or upon every vending machine
which offers tobacco products for sale. Each sign shall be plainly visible and
shall contain a statement communicating that the sale of tobacco products to
persons under twenty-one (21) years of age is prohibited by law.
   B.   Vending Machines: No person shall sell or offer tobacco products
through a vending machine unless the vending machine is located in:
      1.   Business, factories, offices or other places not open to the general
public.
      2.   Places to which persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years of
age are not permitted access; or
      3.   Business premises where alcoholic or malt beverages are sold or
dispensed and the entry by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age is
prohibited.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating subsection A or B of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00). Each day of continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 91-12-001, 3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 3-17-2020)
2-2-4: PURCHASE BY MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall
purchase tobacco products, or misrepresent their identity or age, or use any
false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 91-
12-001, 3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 3-17-2020; Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
2-2-5: POSSESSION OR USE BY MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one
(21) years to possess or use any tobacco products.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution
under subsection A of this section that the defendant possessed or used the
tobacco product in the home of, or under the direct supervision of, his parent
or guardian. (Ord. 91-12-001, 3-10-1992; amd. Ord. 2020-001, 3-17-2020; Ord.
2024-001, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
BUSINESS LICENSE FEES AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose; Authority; General Provision
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Type Of Businesses, Activities And Events
2-3-4: License Required; Documentation; Fees (Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
2-3-5: License Display; Possession
2-3-6: Transfer Of Ownership; Fee
2-3-7: Transfer Of Location; Fee
2-3-8: Register Of Licenses
2-3-9: License And Permit Duration; Renewal
2-3-10: Suspension And Revocation
2-3-11: Emergency Suspension
2-3-12: Violation; Penalty
2-3-1: PURPOSE; AUTHORITY; GENERAL PROVISION:
The purpose of this chapter of licensing and regulating certain types of
businesses and events held within the town is to protect the health, safety and
general welfare of those receiving goods and services, and to provide uniform
regulations for the providers of goods and services. The provisions of this
chapter are pursuant to authority granted cities and towns under Wyoming
Statutes 15-1-103(a)(xiii). The provisions of this chapter govern every
occupation or business specified except where the ordinances of the town
provide more specific regulations and requirements for the business or activity
for which a license or permit is issued.
The mayor or town council may suspend or revoke a license or permit when the
licensee or permittee commits one or more of the following:
   A.   A violation of any provision of this chapter;
   B.   A violation of any ordinance provision relating to health and safety;
   C.   Securing any license or permit by fraud or misrepresentation, to
specifically include false or incorrect information on the license or permit
application form. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
"License" or "permit" means the authority granted by the town to a person to
engage in a specific business or occupation, or to conduct an event for which a
license or permit is required. Each license and permit issued is signed by the
mayor and clerk-treasurer under the town seal. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-3: TYPE OF BUSINESSES, ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following types of business and event
activities are identified and may include more specific regulations contained
elsewhere in this code or other ordinances per type of business, activity or
event:
Amusement:
   A.   Circuses and carnivals. The license fee for conducting a circus or
carnival shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day. The permissible hours
of operation for every circus, carnival or exhibition conducted within the town
will be daily from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
Auctioneer. The license fee for conducting as an auctioneer shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00). Applicants must also file with the town clerk a surety bond
in favor of the town in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Licensees will render true and strict accounts of sales to any person employing
them; will not practice any fraud or deceit upon bidders or purchasers of
property at any auction sale, or permit any person in their employ to practice
any such fraud or deceit; and will pay all damages which may be sustained by
any person by reason of any fraud, deceit, negligence or other wrongful act on
the part of the licensee, his or her agent or employees in the conduct of any
action or in the exercise of the calling of auctioneer. A liability insurance
policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state
which conforms to the above requirements may be permitted in lieu of a bond.
Body art establishments and operations:
   A.   The license fee for a body art establishment shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per year.
   B.   The license fee for a temporary body art establishment shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) per fourteen (14) day period or portion thereof.
Food service establishments (temporary vendors). The license fee for conducting
a temporary food service establishment shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per year
per location.
Temporary/transient merchants; door to door solicitors. The licensing fee for a
temporary or transient merchant license for a fourteen (14) day period will be
seventy five dollars ($75.00); the licensing fee for a comprehensive temporary
or transient merchant license will be two hundred seventy five dollars
($275.00) per year. Home maintenance solicitors must also file with the town
clerk a liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company authorized to
do business in the state which conforms to the above requirements and may be
permitted in lieu of a bond. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; DOCUMENTATION; FEES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
2-3-5: LICENSE DISPLAY; POSSESSION:
The holder of every business and/or event license or permit issued under this
chapter, or other ordinance of the town, shall at all times display the license
and permit prominently in the business or at the site of the event. Each person
who is licensed under this chapter to work at any specified occupation shall be
in possession of a current license or permit at all times while engaged in such
work. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-6: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; FEE:
Licenses and permits are personal privileges to the person to whom they are
issued, but may be transferred by completing an application provided by the
clerk-treasurer. If required by the clerk-treasurer, a transfer request may
require written proof of the assignment. All transfer of ownership applications
should be filed within thirty (30) days of the sales or assignment of the
business.
A fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) will be assessed for each transfer of
ownership application filed. Upon approval of the transfer application, a new
license will be issued to be effective for the balance of the existing
licensing term. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-7: TRANSFER OF LOCATION; FEE:
Each business license and permit issued entitles the licensee or permittee to
operate only in the location described in the license or permit. Should any
licensee or permittee desire to move to a different location, a formal request
for such change shall be made on forms provided by the clerk-treasurer.
A fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) will be assessed for each transfer of
location request. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-8: REGISTER OF LICENSES:
The clerk-treasurer shall maintain a license and permit register, reflecting
the name of each licensee and permittee, the address at which such business
and/or event is conducted, the date of issuance, the type of license or permit,
the fee paid and the duration of the license or permit. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-
2006)
2-3-9: LICENSE AND PERMIT DURATION; RENEWAL:
All current licenses and permits issued under this chapter shall expire
annually, one year from the date of issuance.
Each person licensed or permitted to engage in any annual business and/or event
as outlined in this chapter must renew such license or permit prior to
expiration of the current license and permit. The clerk-treasurer will provide
renewal application forms. The clerk-treasurer has the authority to approve or
deny an application for renewal.
If a renewal application has not been received by the clerk-treasurer prior to
expiration of the current annual license or permit, the license or permit shall
expire and will not be eligible for renewal. An application for a new license
or permit must be submitted.
Any person who continues to operate a business without renewing a license or
securing a new license as required to continue operation will be deemed to be
operating without a license in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-
2006)
2-3-10: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
In the event the mayor or town council deems a license or permit should be
suspended or revoked, the following procedures shall be followed:
   A.   The licensee or permittee will be notified, in writing, by certified
mail, by the clerk-treasurer at least seven (7) days prior to the action
contemplated, stating the reason therefor;
   B.   Upon receipt of the notice, the licensee or permittee may request a
hearing. The request must be in writing and received by the clerk-treasurer
within seven (7) days of receipt of the notice. Failure on the part of the
licensee or permittee to request a hearing in writing within the specified time
shall be deemed a waiver of the licensee's or permittee's right to request a
hearing.
   C.   If a hearing is requested, the licensee or permittee and other
interested parties may be in attendance to present any information relative to
the proposed suspension or revocation of the license or permit. The hearing,
deliberations and notification of decision regarding the suspension or
revocation will be conducted pursuant to the Wyoming administrative procedure
act, Wyoming Statutes 16-3-101 et seq. The clerk-treasurer will notify the
licensee or permittee in writing, by certified mail, of the governing body
decision as the result of the hearing. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
2-3-11: EMERGENCY SUSPENSION:
If the governing body finds that cause exists for an immediate suspension or
revocation of a license or permit, an order for immediate suspension may be
entered. The licensee or permittee, upon notice of suspension or revocation,
may request a hearing before the governing body and the hearing will be
conducted in the manner prescribed under section
2-3-10, "Suspension And Revocation", of this chapter. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-
2006)
2-3-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A person who violates the provisions of this chapter will be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable pursuant to the provisions of the general penalty of
this code. (Ord. 06-02-001, 4-4-2006)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Certain Conditions Declared Nuisance
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Authority To Remove Abandoned Vehicles
3-1-4: Declaration Of Nuisance
3-1-5: Complaint; Written Notice
3-1-6: Citation
3-1-7: Service Of Abatement Order Following Trial
3-1-8: Failure To Comply; Costs And Fines
3-1-9: Order And Lien
3-1-10: Powers Not Reduced Or Diminished
3-1-1: CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCE:
The following conditions upon lands within the Town limits of the Town of
Guernsey are hereby declared to be public nuisances: "wastes", "garbage and
trash", "junk", "weeds", "grasses", "obstructions", and "abandoned vehicles" as
described in section
3-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-18-2017)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   ABANDONED VEHICLES: Vehicles constituting a nuisance are prohibited. No
person shall abandon or leave any vehicle upon any private property, public
property or roadway for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such
vehicle to become a nuisance. A vehicle, including but not limited to motor
vehicles, trailers, campers and camper trailers, that is upon public or private
property and which meets any of the following criteria, is an abandoned
vehicle:
   A.   When any vehicle with any of the tires of the main wheels are deflated
or removed for a period of more than twenty (20) days.
   B.   When the vehicle is totally or partially suspended off the ground by
jacks, blocks, or other lifting devices for a period of twenty (20) days or
more.
   C.   When the vehicle's windshield or window glass is broken out, door,
hood, trunk, or running gear removed, or with more than fifty percent (50%) of
the interior removed for twenty (20) days or more.
   D.   When current license plates or valid temporary permits are not
displayed on such vehicle; provided, that this shall not apply to vehicles in
the possession of licensed dealers for purpose of sales at the place licensed
for such sale.
   E.   When a vehicle is inoperable and/or any part of the mechanism of the
vehicle has been removed so as to render the vehicle inoperable other than for
repair.
   GARBAGE AND TRASH: The presence of trash is defined as to include, but not
be limited to, wire, bottles, broken glass, dead weeds, stumps, brush, shoes,
discarded parts, appliances, equipment, yard trimmings, discarded building
materials, paper and cloth products, ash, wood, glass, metal, cloth, leaves,
hay/alfalfa, and solid wastes resulting from industrial and manufacturing
processes. Also, any other material, manmade or organic, that is considered a
breeding ground for rodents and pests living in and/or feeding in the area, as
these are considered a health risk. Also included is any material considered to
be a fire hazard.
   JUNK: The presence of junk, which is defined to include lumber, barrels,
metals, discarded appliances, or any worn, cast off, or discarded articles, and
materials which are ready for destruction or have been collected and stored for
salvage or conversion to some other use. Any article of material which,
unaltered or unchanged can be used as readily as when new shall not be
considered junk. Any and all portions of disabled vehicles, not being used for
the repair of a vehicle within twenty (20) days shall be considered junk.
   OBSTRUCTIONS: Any item including, but not limited to, bushes, hedges, trees,
fences, walls, or structures which impede the view of a driver of a vehicle, or
which hinder the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, alleyways, and streets
shall be deemed a nuisance.
   WASTES: Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, or
consumption of foods; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce;
any other matter whatsoever that may decompose and become foul, offensive,
unsanitary or dangerous to the health. Domestic composting shall not be
considered a nuisance unless shown to be a breeding ground for rodents or pests
or a health hazard.
   WEEDS AND GRASSES: All weeds defined as noxious by the Wyoming Board of
Agriculture or the Wyoming Weed and Pest Council, and all weeds or tall grasses
within the Town limits, which exceed a height of twelve inches (12") are a
nuisance unless cultivated for aesthetic purposes. Trees, flowers, or other
ornamental plants are not to be considered a nuisance except as they may
constitute obstructions. (Ord. 02-10-003, 1-2-2002)
3-1-3: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Authority To Move: Whenever an abandoned vehicle is found parked on a
Town street, on a public highway, or in an alleyway, the police are authorized
to move such vehicle, or to require the driver, owner, or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same.
   B.   Responsibility For Expenses: The registered owner of any vehicle moved
pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be responsible for all expenses
of moving, including, but not limited to, towing and storage. (Ord. 02-10-003,
1-2-2002)
3-1-4: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
The accumulation or storage of any of the items defined in section
3-1-2 of this chapter on public or private property is found to create a
condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight
and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create harborage for insects,
rodents, skunks, and other vermin, and to be injurious to the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public. Therefore, the presence of any of these
items on public or private property is declared to constitute a public nuisance
which must be removed as such in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 02-10-003, 1-2-2002)
3-1-5: COMPLAINT; WRITTEN NOTICE:
The owner and/or occupant of any premises shall be liable for compliance with
this chapter, and if such person shall disregard or refuse to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, within five (5) days of the receipt of such notice
requiring the removal of the offending item(s), shall be considered in
violation of this chapter and issued a citation in accordance with section
3-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-004, 8-6-2019)
3-1-6: CITATION:
In the event the owner, agent or occupant fails to comply with the written
notice within (5) five days, or if the owner, agent or occupant receives a
second written notice for the same or similar offense as specified in section
3-1-5 of this chapter within any three hundred sixty five (365) day period, the
owner, agent or occupant shall be charged with violating this chapter by
issuance of a citation for a misdemeanor and penalty of the minimum fine and
court costs as set forth in section
3-1-8A. of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-007, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-004, 8-6-
2019; Ord. 2020-003, 4-21-2020)
3-1-7: SERVICE OF ABATEMENT ORDER FOLLOWING TRIAL:
In the event the property owner is convicted of violating this chapter, an
order to abate a nuisance shall be issued, in writing, and shall specify the
location and nature of the nuisance and the identity of the property owner or
occupant. The order shall specify the time within which the nuisance must be
abated. If the property owner cannot be found or refuses to accept service of
the order, the order may be served by posting it upon the subject property.
(Ord. 02-10-003, 1-2-2002)
3-1-8: FAILURE TO COMPLY; COSTS AND FINES:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person convicted of violation of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor which is punishable by a maximum possible fine of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and ten dollars ($10.00) court costs, with a
minimum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   B.   Civil Contempt: If the property owner fails to comply with an order of
abatement, the court may also assess a fine for civil contempt in an amount of
not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day of noncompliance (whether
the nuisance was abated by the property owner after the time limits expired, or
remains unabated) for each day that the nuisance continued unabated after the
time limits specified in the order of abatement until the removal was
completed.
   C.   Costs Of Abatement: In the event the Municipality seeks the imposition
of fees for the costs of abatement, a copy of the petition shall be served upon
the property owner by ordinary mail and a hearing date set to determine the
appropriate amount of fines or charges. (Ord. 02-10-003, 1-2-2002; amd. Ord.
2020-003, 4-21-2020)
3-1-9: ORDER AND LIEN:
   A.   Order Constitutes A Lien: Upon final disposition of the case, if any
costs or fines are outstanding, the Municipal Court shall enter an order, in
writing, specifying the amount of costs charged and the amount of any fines
imposed, which order shall be signed by the Municipal Judge. The order shall
further contain a legal description of the subject property and shall provide
that the amount of costs and fines of the order, along with interest at the
rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, shall constitute a lien against the
property in favor of the Town and a copy of the order shall be filed with the
Platte County Clerk in the real estate records maintained in that office.
   B.   Release Of Lien: Release of said lien shall be provided to the property
owner upon payment in full of the costs, fines, and interest. The property
owner shall be responsible for filing the release with the Platte County Clerk.
(Ord. 02-10-003, 1-2-2002)
3-1-10: POWERS NOT REDUCED OR DIMINISHED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed in any way to reduce or diminish the
powers of the Town to regulate nuisances and take other action in respect to
the protection of the health, safety, and welfare in general of the citizens of
the Town. (Ord. 02-10-003, 1-2-2002)
CHAPTER 2
REFUSE, GARBAGE AND WEEDS 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Maintenance Of Property
3-2-3: Containers
3-2-4: Tree Trimmings
3-2-5: Burning Of Solid Waste
3-2-6: Fees
3-2-7: Violations; Issuance Of Notice
3-2-8: Disposal Of Yard Waste, Garbage And Refuse
 
Notes
  1. For state law as to authority of town to regulate the hauling of refuse,
1 see WS § 15-1-103. As to powers of town with respect to health, safety and
  welfare generally, see WS § 15-1-103.
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES: No person shall abandon or leave any vehicle upon any
private property, public property or roadway for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle to become a nuisance. A vehicle,
including, but not limited to, motor vehicles, trailers, campers and camper
trailers, that is upon public or private property and which meets any of the
following criteria, is an abandoned vehicle:
   A.   When any vehicle with any of the tires of the main wheels are deflated
or removed for a period of more than twenty (20) days.
   B.   When the vehicle is totally or partially suspended off the ground by
jacks, blocks, or other lifting devices for a period of twenty (20) days or
more.
   C.   When the vehicle's windshield or window glass is broken out, door,
hood, trunk, or running gear removed, or with more than fifty percent (50%) of
the interior removed for twenty (20) days or more.
   D.   When current license plates or valid temporary permits are not
displayed on such vehicle; provided, that this shall not apply to vehicles in
the possession of licensed dealers for purpose of sales at the place licensed
for such sale.
   E.   When a vehicle is inoperable and/or any part of the mechanism of the
vehicle has been removed so as to render the vehicle inoperable other than for
repair.
   GARBAGE: Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or
consumption of foods; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce;
any other matter whatsoever that may decompose and become foul, offensive,
unsanitary or dangerous to health.
   REFUSE: Combustible and noncombustible discarded materials including, but
not limited to, paper, wood, glass, metal and cloth products, yard trimmings,
tree branches, furniture, bedding, building materials, leaves, ashes and solid
wastes resulting from industrial and manufacturing processes.
   YARD WASTE: Debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden waste, brush and
trees. (1987 Code § 13-1; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 09-10-006, 5-5-2009)
3-2-2: MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Duty To Maintain: It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, tenant,
purchaser, contractor or lessee of any premises within the town including
places of business, dwelling houses, apartments, tenements, construction sites
or other establishments, at all times, to maintain the premises in a clean and
orderly condition, permitting no deposit or accumulation of materials other
than those necessary or ordinarily attendant upon the use for which such
premises are legally intended.
   B.   Duties Enumerated: It shall be the duty of any owner, occupant or agent
having control of any lot or premises, as well as any portion of any alley
adjoining the premises, to:
      1.   Mow, cut, destroy or spray all weeds.
      2.   Remove all trash, garbage, junk, abandoned vehicles, unused
vehicles, abandoned machinery, unused machinery, junk machinery, abandoned and
discarded appliances and all other refuse.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Any accumulation of trash, garbage, junk, abandoned
vehicles, unused vehicles, abandoned machinery, unused machinery, junk
machinery, abandoned and discarded appliances and all other refuse is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance and a nonconforming use of the premises.
(1987 Code § 13-2)
3-2-3: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required; Specifications: All garbage and refuse containers shall be
provided by the contracted sanitation company. Only garbage and debris placed
in the provided containers will be picked up by the sanitation company. (2005
Code)
   B.   Placement In Containers Required: All garbage and refuse shall be
placed in containers as specified; provided, however, yard trimmings, grass,
leaves and similar items may be placed in sturdy boxes, dumpsters or similar
containers. (1987 Code § 13-5)
3-2-4: TREE TRIMMINGS:
Any person who shall trim trees on any property within the town shall be
responsible for the removal, from the streets, alleys and other public ways of
the town, of all trash, limbs and other debris created by such trimming. (1987
Code § 13-8)
3-2-5: BURNING OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Definitions: As defined for the purposes of this section:
   SOLID WASTE: Shall include, but is not limited to:
    Ashes: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, or other combustible
materials.
    Bulky Waste: That item which precludes or complicates handling by normal
collection, processing, or disposal methods because of its large size.
    Garbage: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
    Hazardous Waste: Any waste or combination of wastes which pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, the environment,
plants, or animals because such wastes are nondegradable or persistent in
nature or because they can be biologically magnified or because they can be
lethal or because they may otherwise cause or tend to cause detrimental
cumulative effects.
    Refuse: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and
solid market and industrial wastes.
    Rubbish: Nonputrescible solid waste (excluding ashes) consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, leaves, bark, wood, glass, bedding, dishes and similar materials.
Rubbish does not include wood, bark or paper burned in a fireplace used for
aesthetic enjoyment or as a source of heat.
   B.   Prohibited:
      1.   Burning of solid waste within the town of Guernsey shall not be
permitted, except as described in subsection B2 of this section, and persons
found guilty of this offense shall be in violation of this section.
      2.   Incineration systems which meet all applicable air quality and
emission standards, and where the waste cannot be disposed of in accordance
with the normal collection procedures, shall be permitted upon obtaining the
approval of the town and all other agencies who have jurisdiction over the
same.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be charged with a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus costs. Violation of
this section shall be deemed a separate offense on each day that a violation
shall occur. (Ord. 08-07-006, 6-19-2007)
3-2-6: FEES:
The fees to be charged for the removal of garbage and refuse shall be as
established by the town council from time to time. (1987 Code § 13-7; amd. Ord.
08-07-006, 6-19-2007)
3-2-7: VIOLATIONS; ISSUANCE OF NOTICE:
   A.   Liability For Compliance: The owner, agent or occupant of any premises
shall be liable for compliance with this chapter and if such person shall
refuse to comply with the provisions of this chapter, he shall be given written
notice requiring removal of the offending item within seven (7) days from the
receipt of such notice.
   B.   Delivery Of Notice: Notice shall be deemed delivered when personally
served or deposited in the United States mail, with postage prepaid, and
addressed to the owner or occupant of the premises. (1987 Code § 13-3; amd.
Ord. 08-07-006, 6-19-2007)
   C.   Failure To Comply: Upon failure to comply with any written notice given
pursuant to subsection A of this section, the town shall have the authority to
remove any offending item and charge the cost thereof as a special bill for
refuse removal. In the event such bill is not promptly paid for, it shall
become a lien against the property and collectable as such.
   D.   Penalty: The abatement of the nuisance by the town shall not relieve
the person in charge or control of such property of any penalty imposed for
violation of this chapter. (1987 Code § 13-4; amd. Ord. 08-07-006, 6-19-2007)
3-2-8: DISPOSAL OF YARD WASTE, GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Rules For Disposal:
      1.   All yard waste, garbage and refuse shall be separated and shall be
placed in the designated trash receptacles.
      2.   Ashes, oversized furniture, hazardous waste such as car batteries,
tires, and construction materials shall not be placed in any trash receptacle.
      3.   Yard waste may be transported to the Guernsey compost area during
regular business hours and all loads must be covered or secured in a manner
preventing spillage.
      4.   The town of Guernsey sponsors a cleanup week twice a year during
which the town will transport collected yard waste, oversized furniture and
construction material free of charge which shall not be placed out for pick up
earlier than the Friday immediately prior to the first day of cleanup, nor
later than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the Friday at the end of the specified
cleanup week. A household hazardous waste day is held at least once every other
year to dispose of batteries, tires and any other household hazardous waste
material.
   B.   Penalties: The owner or occupant of any premises shall be liable for
compliance with this section. Any person, firm or corporation violating this
section shall be charged with a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined
any sum not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus court costs. Violation of this section shall be deemed
a separate offense on each day that a violation shall occur. (Ord. 09-10-006,
5-5-2009)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Aiding And Abetting
4-1-2: Assault
4-1-3: Assault And Battery
4-1-4: Criminal Entry
4-1-5: Criminal Trespass
4-1-6: Destruction Of Property
4-1-7: Disorderly Conduct
4-1-8: Disturbing Assemblages
4-1-9: False Reporting
4-1-10: Fences Around Excavations
4-1-11: Firearms
4-1-12: Gambling Gambling (Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
4-1-13: Glue Sniffing And Other Dangerous Substances
4-1-14: Golf Fees; Nonpayment
4-1-15: Littering (Rep. by Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
4-1-16: Malicious Mischief
4-1-17: Municipal Employees, Interfering With
4-1-18: Narcotic Paraphernalia
4-1-19: Nudity In Public
4-1-20: Property; Injuring, Defacing
4-1-21: Obscenity
4-1-22: Overnight Camping
4-1-23: Police
4-1-24: Prostitution
4-1-25: Public Drunkenness
4-1-26: Refrigerators, Iceboxes; Abandonment
4-1-27: Shoplifting
4-1-28: Theft
4-1-29: Unlawful Posting
4-1-30: Window Peeping
4-1-31: Collection Of Pet Waste
4-1-32: Possession Of Marijuana
4-1-1: AIDING AND ABETTING:
Any person who knowingly aids, abets or assists another person in an act that
is a violation of this code is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 10-36)
4-1-2: ASSAULT 1 :
Whoever, having the present ability to do so, unlawfully attempts to commit a
violent injury on the person of another is guilty of an assault. (1987 Code §
10-1)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-2-501.
4-1-3: ASSAULT AND BATTERY 1 :
It shall be unlawful to touch another person in a rude, insolent or angry
manner. (1987 Code § 10-2)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-2-501.
4-1-4: CRIMINAL ENTRY 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: A person is guilty of criminal entry if, without authority,
he knowingly enters a building, occupied structure, vehicle or cargo portion of
a truck or trailer, or a separately secured or occupied portion of those
enclosures.
   B.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under
this section that:
      1.   The entry was made because of a mistake of fact or to preserve life
or property in an emergency;
      2.   The enclosure was abandoned;
      3.   The enclosure was at the time open to the public and the person
complied with all lawful conditions imposed on access to or remaining in the
enclosure; or
      4.   The person reasonably believed that the owner of the enclosure, or
other person empowered to license access to the enclosure, would have
authorized him to enter. (1987 Code § 10-31)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 6-3-302.
4-1-5: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
A person is guilty of criminal trespass if he enters or remains on or in the
land or premises of another person, knowing he is not authorized to do so, or
after being notified to depart or to not trespass. For purposes of this
section, notice is given by:
   A.   Personal communication to the person by the owner or occupant, or his
agent, or by a peace officer; or
   B.   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders. (1987 Code § 10-32)
4-1-6: DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully injure or destroy any property of another or any
public property. (1987 Code § 10-5)
4-1-7: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person shall:
   A.   Violent Or Tumultuous Act:
      1.   Property: Commit an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward
another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being
destroyed or damaged.
      2.   Person: Commit an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward
another whereby that other is placed in danger of his life, limb or health.
   B.   Fight, Brawl Or Riotous Conduct: Cause, provoke or engage in any fight,
brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property
of another.
   C.   Incite Or Attempt To Incite Riot: Incite, attempt to incite, or be
involved in attempting to incite a riot. For the purposes of this section, the
term "riot" shall mean a tumultuous disturbance of the peace by persons
assembled and acting with a common intent to the terror of the people of the
town, either in executing a lawful enterprise in a violent or turbulent manner
or in executing an unlawful enterprise in a violent or turbulent manner.
   D.   Obstruct Traffic: Obstruct, either singly or together with other
persons, the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or refuse to clear such
public way when ordered to do so by the police or other lawful authority known
to be such.
   E.   Damage To Property: Damage, befoul or disturb public property or the
property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically
offensive condition.
   F.   Failure To Obey Police Officer: Fail to obey a lawful order to disperse
by a police officer, when known to be such an official, where one or more
persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity,
and the public health and safety is imminently threatened.
   G.   Resist Or Obstruct Performance Of Duties Of Town Official: Resist or
obstruct the performance of duties by police or any other authorized official
of the town when known to be such an official.
   H.   Interfere With Lawful Occupation Of Another: Interfere with another's
pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of violence.
   I.   Obscene Language: Use abusive, profane or obscene language in any
public place.
   J.   Disturbing The Peace: By any loud talking, by threatening abusive,
profane or obscene language, or violent actions or by any other rude behavior,
interrupt or disturb the peace of the town or any of its inhabitants. (1987
Code § 10-6)
4-1-8: DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES:
   A.   Lawful Assembly: No person shall disturb any lawful assemblage of
people by rude, boisterous or indecent behavior or otherwise.
   B.   Religious Worship: No person shall annoy or disturb any congregation or
assembly, gathered together for religious worship, by making a noise, by rude
or indecent behavior or profane discourse, within the place wherein such
congregation or assembly is gathered together or so near the same as to be
heard by or tending to disturb the persons so engaged or assembled. (1987 Code
§ 10-7)
4-1-9: FALSE REPORTING 1 :
A person who knowingly reports falsely to a law enforcement agency or a fire
department that a crime has been committed is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1987
Code § 10-34)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-5-210.
4-1-10: FENCES AROUND EXCAVATIONS:
No person shall leave any excavation in an open or uncovered condition, or in
any such condition as may cause danger to life or property upon any premises of
which such person is the owner, agent or other representative unless the ground
upon which excavation is situated is enclosed by a substantial fence. (1987
Code § 10-8)
4-1-11: FIREARMS 1 :
   A.   Discharge: No person shall fire or discharge any cannon, gun, fowling
piece, pistol or firearm of any description; or fire, explode or set off any
squib, cracker or other thing containing powder or other combustible or
explosive material, without written permission from the town council, which
permission shall limit the time of such firing, and shall be subject to
revocation by the town council at any time after being granted. (1987 Code §
10-9)
   B.   (Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 6-8-101 et seq. For fireworks, see WS § 35-10-2-1 et seq. For storage
  of explosives, see WS § 35-10-301 et seq.
4-1-12: GAMBLING 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. As to gambling generally, see WS § 6-7-101 et seq. For state law as to
  authority of town to restrain, prohibit, etc., gambling, see WS § 15-1-103.
4-1-13: GLUE SNIFFING AND OTHER DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibitions: No person shall, for the purpose of causing or so as
to result in a condition of intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration,
stupefaction or dulling of the senses or nervous system, intentionally smell or
inhale the fumes from any glue or similar toxic vapor or consume or use any
otherwise legal substance for a purpose not in accordance with its legitimate
use or purpose as is generally known, used and advertised.
      2.   Exceptions: Provided, that this section shall not apply to the
following:
         a.   Anesthesia For Medical Or Dental Purposes: The inhalation of
anesthesia for medical or dental purposes when administered or directed by a
licensed physician or dentist.
         b.   Tobaccos 1 : The use of tobaccos. (1987 Code § 10-15)
         c.   Intoxicating Liquors: The drinking of intoxicating liquors or
malt beverages by persons over twenty one (21) years of age. (1987 Code § 10-
15; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Possess, Buy, Sell, Transfer Or Receive Possession Of Prohibited
Substances: No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to
violate any provisions of this section, intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession or receive possession of any substances herein prohibited.
(1987 Code § 10-15)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 2 for provisions regarding the sale and use of
  tobacco by minors.
4-1-14: GOLF FEES; NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Payment Of Fee Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter
the Guernsey golf course, known as Trail Ruts, for the purpose of playing or
practicing golf without first paying the fee, which shall be periodically set
by the town council. (Ord. 90-12-002, 1-7-1991)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall, upon conviction,
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 90-12-002, 1-7-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
4-1-15: LITTERING:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
4-1-16: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF:
No person shall wantonly or mischievously break or destroy, or attempt to break
or destroy in any manner, any property of another. (1987 Code § 10-16)
4-1-17: MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES, INTERFERING WITH:
No person shall interfere in any way with any employee of the town in the
performance of his work, nor displace any stakes or landmarks deposited or
installed by any employee, nor in any way molest any tools, instruments or
equipment of any employee, nor in any way molest any tools, instruments or
equipment used by such employee in the duties assigned to him. (1987 Code § 10-
17)
4-1-18: NARCOTIC PARAPHERNALIA 1 :
No person shall possess any device, contrivance, instrument or paraphernalia
designed or used for smoking a controlled substance or to possess any
hypodermic needle or syringe or any other device, contrivance, instrument or
paraphernalia designed or used for injecting a controlled substance; except for
the following persons:
   A.   Licensed drug manufacturers, wholesale drug jobbers, pharmacists,
physicians, dentists, podiatrists, veterinarians and nurses.
   B.   Hospital research, teaching and clinical laboratories personnel,
funeral directors and embalmers.
   C.   Persons specifically authorized by a licensed physician, dentist or
podiatrist to use a hypodermic needle or syringe for medical treatment
purposes, while so using the needle or syringe.
   D.   Persons using a hypodermic needle or syringe for the treatment of
livestock. (1987 Code § 10-18)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 35-7-1001 et seq.
4-1-19: NUDITY IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section the word "nudity" shall
mean the showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area or female
breasts with less than a fully opaque covering.
   B.   Prohibited: No person shall appear in a state of nudity in any public
place. (1987 Code § 10-19)
4-1-20: PROPERTY; INJURING, DEFACING 1 :
No person, unless he shall have a permit therefor from the town, shall cut,
break, or in any way injure or deface any tree, shrub, plant, flower or turf,
or any building, fence, bridge or other structure, or any street, alley, curb,
or gutter, water or sewer line or sewer intake, or any tools, equipment, or
anything whatsoever, that has been planted, built, constructed, installed, or
is maintained by, or is the property of the town. (1987 Code § 10-3)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-3-201.
4-1-21: OBSCENITY 1 :
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other article,
equipment or machine.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genital in
a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE: To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., a shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct,
nudity, or excretion; and
      2.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel, or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including but not limited to
hostessing, hatchecking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
cleaning, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (1987 Code § 10-20)
   B.   Prohibited Conduct: No person shall:
      1.   Knowingly disseminate, distribute or make available to the public
any obscene material; or
      2.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      3.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or excretion
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
      5.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed unlawful
acts. (1987 Code § 10-21)
   C.   Evidence; Defenses:
      1.   Evidence: Expert affirmative evidence that the materials or
activities are obscene is not required when the materials or activities
themselves are presented as evidence.
      2.   Defenses: It shall be affirmative defense in any prosecution under
subsections A and B of this section that allegedly obscene material was
disseminated, or presented for a bona fide scientific, medical, educational,
governmental, or judicial purpose of a physician, psychologist, teacher,
clergyman, prosecutor, or judge. (1987 Code § 10-22)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 6-4-301.
4-1-22: OVERNIGHT CAMPING:
   A.   Areas Restricted: No person shall remain overnight in any tent,
sleeping bag, vehicle, camper or in any other manner whatsoever on any property
belonging to the town except in those areas specifically designated for
overnight camping.
   B.   (Rep. by Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024) (1987 Code § 10-23)
4-1-23: POLICE:
   A.   Aiding: It shall be the duty of all persons in the town, when called
upon by any police officer or other member of the police department, to
promptly aid and assist him in the execution of his duties. (1987 Code § 10-24)
   B.   Interference With Or Resisting:
      1.   Resist Or Interfere: No person shall resist any police officer or
member of the police department in the discharge of any duty or shall in any
way interfere with or hinder or prevent an officer from discharging the duties
as such officer.
      2.   Aid In Escape: No person shall in any manner assist any person in
custody of any police officer to escape or attempt to escape from such custody
or shall rescue or attempt to rescue any person so in custody. (1987 Code § 10-
25)
   C.   False Report Of Crime 1 : No person shall knowingly make or file any
false, misleading or unfounded statement or report concerning the commission or
alleged commission of any crime occurring within the town. (1987 Code § 10-26)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-1-9 of this chapter.
4-1-24: PROSTITUTION:
A person who knowingly or intentionally performs or permits, or offers or
agrees to perform or permit an act of "sexual intrusion" as defined by Wyoming
Statutes subsection 6-2-301(a)(vii), for money or other property commits
prostitution which is a misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 10-33)
4-1-25: PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS:
No person shall be drunk or in a state of intoxication in any public place
within the town. (1987 Code § 10-27)
4-1-26: REFRIGERATORS, ICEBOXES; ABANDONMENT 1 :
Whoever abandons or stores any refrigerator unit or icebox in such a place as
to be easily accessible to children without first having made adequate
provision to prevent entry into such refrigeration unit or icebox or without
having removed all latches, catches, locking devices or the door thereof, so
that escape from the interior may be had, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum of not less
than fifteen dollars ($15.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or
be imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days or both. (1987 Code § 10-28;
amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 25-10-407.
4-1-27: SHOPLIFTING:
A person who willfully conceals or takes possession of property offered for
sale by a wholesale or retail store without the knowledge or consent of the
owner and with intent to convert the property to his own use without paying the
purchase price is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 10-29; amd. Ord. 2024-
001, 1-2-2024)
4-1-28: THEFT:
A person who steals, takes and carries, leads or drives away property of
another with intent to deprive the owner or lawful possessor and the value of
the property is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), that person is guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 10-35)
4-1-29: UNLAWFUL POSTING:
No person shall paint, print, paste, stencil, or otherwise mark upon, or in any
manner place upon or affix to any building, fence, wall or tree without the
consent of the owner thereof, any word, letter, character, figure, sentence or
device, or any handbill or notice. (1987 Code § 10-30)
4-1-30: WINDOW PEEPING:
Any person who looks, peers or peeps into any residential home window which is
not his home is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 10-37)
4-1-31: COLLECTION OF PET WASTE:
   A.   Collection On Public Property: No person owning or in charge of any
dog, cat or other animal shall cause or allow such dog, cat or other animal to
soil, defile, defecate on, or commit any nuisance on any common thoroughfare,
sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area, park, or any place where people
congregate or walk, or upon any public property whatsoever, or upon any private
property, without the permission of the owner.
   B.   Collection On Private Property: Any person owning or in charge of any
dog, cat or other animal, which soils, defiles, defecates on, or commits any
nuisance on any common thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area,
park, or any place where people congregate or walk, or upon any public property
whatsoever, or upon any private property without permission of the owner of the
property, shall immediately remove all feces deposited by such dog, cat or
other animal in a sanitary manner.
   C.   Disposal Of Pet Waste: The feces removed from the aforementioned
designated areas shall be disposed of by the person owning or in charge of any
dog, cat or other animal, in a sealed, nonabsorbent, leakproof container.
   D.   Penalty: The violation of this section by any person is hereby declared
to be a misdemeanor.
First conviction: Such person shall be fined any sum not to exceed twenty five
dollars ($25.00), plus court costs.
Second conviction: Such person shall be fined any sum not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), plus court costs.
Third conviction: Such person shall be fined any sum not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs.
(Ord. 09-07-002, 7-15-2008)
4-1-32: POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA:
   A.   Definitions And Offense:
      1.   The term "marijuana" is defined to mean the following: all parts of
the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the
resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin, but
shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant or any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks,
except the resin extracted therefrom, fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized
seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess
marijuana within the town of Guernsey in an amount totaling three (3) ounces or
less.
   B.   Determination Of Weight: For purposes of determining the weight to be
given marijuana under this section, said weight shall include the weight of the
marijuana at or about the time it is seized, whether cured or uncured, but
excluding packaging material.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Any person violating this section shall be
charged with a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus court costs. (Ord. 11-11-
001, 12-7-2010)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Licensing And Registration
4-2-3: Running At Large Prohibited
4-2-4: Impoundment
4-2-5: Vicious Animal
4-2-6: Cruelty To Animals
4-2-7: Rabies, Detention And Observation Of Animals
4-2-8: Keeping Animals, Fowl Or Livestock In Offensive Manner
4-2-9: Breaking Open Pound
4-2-10: Horses In Municipal Park
4-2-11: Nuisance Dogs
4-2-12: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless otherwise indicated, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings:
   ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any animal off the premises of the owner, and/or being at
places other than under the physical control of the owner.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER 1 : All police officers employed by the Town and any
other person designated by the Town Council to enforce this chapter.
   DOG: Both male and female animals.
   FEROCIOUS: Any exhibition or tendency to fierceness and unrestrained
violence and brutality.
   LIVESTOCK: All cattle, horses, pigs, lambs, sheep, goats, buffalo, mules,
emus, llamas, alpacas, and other animals.
   NUISANCE DOG: Any dog causing undue annoyance or disturbance to any person
or persons by frequent and/or habitual howling, yelping, barking, or other
disturbing noises or aggressive behavior.
   OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a dog or other animal.
   PHYSICAL CONTROL: On a leash or other restraint not exceeding eight feet
(8') in length with one end attached to the dog and other end in physical
possession of the owner.
   POUND: The place provided by the Town for the impounding of dogs.
   UNRULY: Not readily ruled, disciplined or manageable.
   VACCINATE: The inoculation of a dog with a modified live virus antirabies
vaccine which shall be administered under the direction of a licensed
veterinarian, the cost of said vaccination to be borne by the owner of the dog.
   VICIOUS: Dangerously aggressive, marked by violence and/or ferocity. (1987
Code § 4-1; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 08-07-005, 6-19-2007; Ord. 2017-005, 7-6-2017;
Ord. 2017-006, 7-6-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. For State law as to authority of Town to appoint and compensate a
  poundmaster and prescribe his duties, see WS § 15-1-103.
4-2-2: LICENSING AND REGISTRATION:
   A.   Required; Term: All dogs over four (4) months of age kept, harbored or
maintained in the Town shall be licensed and registered. Licenses shall be
issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer or by an agent as may be designated by the
Clerk-Treasurer. No license shall be issued unless the dog has a current rabies
vaccination. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year in which the
same are issued. (1987 Code § 4-9; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Fees 1 : A fee as established by the Governing Body shall be paid upon
application for a license. (1987 Code § 4-10)
   C.   Issuance And Wearing Of Tags: Upon payment of the license fee, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license tag bearing the number under which the
dog is registered. Such tag shall be secured to the neck of the registered
animal and it shall be unlawful for any person to put any license upon a dog
for which the same was not issued. (1987 Code § 4-11)
   D.   Unlicensed Dog Declared Nuisance; Impoundment: Any dog found within the
Town without a current license is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
it is hereby made the duty of the animal control officer to pick up and impound
any such animal. (1987 Code § 4-12)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103.
4-2-3: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper of an animal
i.e., dog, cat, fowl or any other type to allow or permit such animal to be out
of their physical control while out of the day to day housing, pen or kennel
where it is kept. Nor shall any animal be permitted to be at large.
   B.   Penalty: The violation of this section by any person in charge of, and/
or the owner (present or not) is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
      1.   First offense: Such person(s) if convicted shall be fined a sum not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus court costs.
      2.   Second offense: Such person(s) shall be given a Must Appear citation
and if convicted shall be fined any sum not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus court costs.
      3.   Third offense: Such person(s) shall be given a Must Appear citation
and if convicted shall be fined any sum not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus court costs.
   C.   Hindering Enforcement Officers: Any person who shall hinder any animal
control officer in the discharge of their duties as provided in subsection
4-2-4A of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined any sum not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs.
(Ord. 2017-006, 7-6-2017)
4-2-4: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Duty To Impound: If any animal or fowl shall be found running at large
it shall be the duty of the animal control officer to impound such animal in a
secure pen, pound or other place provided for that purpose.
   B.   Payment Of Fees Prior To Release: No animal or fowl impounded shall be
released until the owner shall pay the fees required by subsection E of this
section. (1987 Code § 4-6)
   C.   Notification Of Owner: Every owner shall be immediately notified upon
impounding of any animal and every animal impounded shall be held for a period
of seventy two (72) hours after such notification.
   D.   Disposition Of Impounded Animal 1 : If not claimed within seventy two
(72) hours by any person who pays the license and impounding fees, such animal
may be disposed of. The poundmaster may, at his discretion, in preference to
putting any animal to death, release the animal to some person who shall pay
all costs incurred before release. If the owner is unknown, the poundmaster may
dispose of any unclaimed animal five (5) days after impoundment. (1987 Code §
4-7)
   E.   Impound Fees: Upon payment of impound fees as established by the
Governing Body, license fees and an animal control officer's fee, an owner may
secure the release of any impounded animal. (1987 Code § 4-8)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103.
4-2-5: VICIOUS ANIMAL:
No person shall keep, feed, harbor or allow to stay about the premises occupied
by such person any vicious, unruly or ferocious animal. (1987 Code § 4-2)
4-2-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 1 :
No person shall wilfully or maliciously torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, beat, mutilate, kill, mistreat or carry an animal in a vehicle in a
cruel or inhumane manner, or cause or procure it to be done; or having the
charge and custody of any animal, unnecessarily fail to provide it with the
proper food, drink or protection from the weather, or abandon it. (1987 Code §
4-3)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 6-3-203, 11-29-101 et seq., 11-29-106 - 11-29-112.
4-2-7: RABIES, DETENTION AND OBSERVATION OF ANIMALS:
Any animal attacking any person in a vicious manner or that bites any person
will be impounded by the County Sheriff or animal control officer and held in
quarantine for at least ten (10) days or as long as necessary as determined by
the Wyoming State Health Officer after the attack to determine whether the
animal has any disease which may be communicated to humans. Home quarantine may
be allowed as determined by the animal control officer or the County Sheriff if
the animal's owner or custodian presents a valid rabies vaccination certificate
showing the animal has been vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian. The costs of impoundment, quarantine and testing shall be paid by
the owner or custodian of the animal. Any animal which attacks any person in a
vicious manner may be destroyed or the owner or custodian of the animal may be
fined not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), or both. Proof of the fact
that the animal has bitten or attacked any person at any place where a person
is legally entitled to be is evidence that the animal is vicious within the
meaning of this section. A copy of any animal control officer's report
regarding the animal bite shall be submitted to the State Health Officer. (Ord.
11-03, 9-20-2011)
4-2-8: KEEPING ANIMALS, FOWL OR LIVESTOCK IN OFFENSIVE MANNER:
   A.   Livestock Prohibited: No person shall keep livestock other than
domesticated chickens not to exceed fifteen (15) upon any premises within the
Town.
      1.   Roosters are prohibited.
      2.   Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or secured area at all times.
      3.   Chickens may be allowed outside of their chicken pens during
daylight hours within a secured fenced yard and shall be secured within a
chicken house during nondaylight hours. (Ord. 10-10-009, 10-20-2009)
   B.   Nuisance Declared: No person shall keep any animal or fowl upon any
premises within the Town in such a manner as to be offensive or annoying. The
keeping of any animal or fowl upon any premises in such a manner as to be
offensive or annoying shall be deemed to be a nuisance.
   C.   Notice Of Noncompliance: The owner, agent or occupant of any premises
shall be held liable for compliance and, if such person shall refuse to comply
with the provisions of this section, he shall be served with written notice
requiring abatement of the nuisance within three (3) days from the receipt of
such notice.
   D.   Failure To Comply: Any person who fails to comply with any written
notice given pursuant to subsection C of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 4-4)
4-2-9: BREAKING OPEN POUND 1 :
No person shall break open or assist in breaking open any pound, pen or other
enclosure with the intention of releasing any animal confined therein. (1987
Code § 4-13)
 
Notes
1 1. As to injuring buildings, see sections 4-1-6 and 4-1-20 of this title. As
  to malicious mischief generally, see section 4-1-16 of this title.
4-2-10: HORSES IN MUNICIPAL PARK:
No person shall ride or permit any horse to remain within any Municipal park.
(1987 Code § 4-14)
4-2-11: NUISANCE DOGS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for an owner, person in charge of, or
keeper of a dog to allow or permit such dog to exhibit the behavior of a
nuisance dog.
   B.   Penalty: The violation of this section by any person(s) is hereby
declared to be a misdemeanor.
      1.   First conviction: Such person(s) shall be fined a sum not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00), plus court costs.
      2.   Second offense: Such person(s) shall be given a Must Appear citation
and if convicted shall be fined any sum not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus court costs.
      3.   Third offense: Such person(s) shall be given a Must Appear citation
and if convicted shall be fined any sum not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus court costs.
   C.   Impoundment:
      1.   Duty To Impound: It shall be the duty of the animal control officer
of the Town to apprehend any dog found by them to be in violation of this
section, if deemed necessary to enforce the provisions herein.
   D.   Hindering Enforcement Officers: Any person who shall hinder any animal
control officer in the discharge of their duties as provided in this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined any sum not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus court costs. (Ord. 2017-005, 7-6-
2017)
4-2-12: PENALTY 1 :
Any person in possession of any dog not licensed or any person violating any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1987 Code § 4-15;
amd. Ord. 08-07-005, 6-19-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-4-2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Curfew
4-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, any person who has not
attained the age of eighteen (18) years of age is hereby declared to be a
minor.
   B.   Curfew Imposed: No minor shall remain idle, wander, stroll or play in
any public place, either on foot or to cruise about, without a set destination,
in any vehicle in, about or upon any place in the town between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through Thursday of
each week, and through twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight through five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. on Friday and Saturday nights of each week, unless accompanied by a
parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of
such minor, or where the presence of such minor is connected with or required
by some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   C.   Unlawful To Allow Violation: It shall also be unlawful for any person
having the legal care or custody of any minor to allow or permit such minor to
violate this section. (Ord. 94-06-001, 8-23-1994)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Call For Licenses
4-4-2: License Required
4-4-3: Application
4-4-4: License Fees
4-4-5: Number Of Licenses Restricted
4-4-6: Requirements Prior To Issuance
4-4-7: Lottery Drawing
4-4-8: Term
4-4-9: Rules
4-4-10: Posting Of License
4-4-11: Sale, Discharge And Detonation Restricted
4-4-1: CALL FOR LICENSES:
The town clerk-treasurer shall advertise in a paper of general circulation, at
least once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks, a call for fireworks license
applications. The advertisement shall be placed in the paper of general
circulation for the month of May. (Ord. 92-03-001, 4-18-1992)
4-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall offer for sale, sell or give away any fireworks within the town
without first obtaining a license therefor. (1987 Code § 7-1)
4-4-3: APPLICATION:
Any person applying for a license to offer for sale, sell or give away
fireworks shall file with the town clerk-treasurer a sworn application, in
writing, which shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and description of applicant.
   B.   The permanent home address and local address of the applicant and the
representative thereof filing the application.
   C.   A description of the nature of the business to be conducted.
   D.   The place where the sale of fireworks will take place, which place must
be approved by the town fire chief prior to issuance of the license. (1987 Code
§ 7-1)
4-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
The town council shall establish a fee for a fireworks license and require the
payment of said fee prior to the issuance of the license. The for profit
license fee shall not exceed the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00). The
nonprofit license fee shall not exceed the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 92-03-001, 4-18-1992)
4-4-5: NUMBER OF LICENSES RESTRICTED:
The number of licenses which shall be issued each year shall not exceed two
(2), with one of those going to a nonprofit organization. (Ord. 92-03-001, 4-
18-1992)
4-4-6: REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO ISSUANCE:
Prior to the issuance of the permit, the successful applicant shall file with
the town clerk-treasurer the following documents:
   A.   Permission Of Landowner: Permission from the landowner to operate a
fireworks stand on his or her property, only necessary when the holder of the
permit is not the landowner.
   B.   Liability Insurance: Proof of liability insurance in the amount of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   C.   Hold Harmless Agreement: An agreement holding the town harmless in the
event of any legal action taken against the fireworks stand. (Ord. 92-03-001,
4-18-1992)
4-4-7: LOTTERY DRAWING:
In the event there is more than one qualified applicant for each license, after
a hearing, then the licenses will be selected by a lottery drawing. (Ord. 92-
03-001, 4-18-1992)
4-4-8: TERM:
The fireworks licenses shall be only valid for the sale of fireworks from June
20 to July 4 of each year. All fireworks stands shall be located on private
property and only on the frontage of Highway 26. (Ord. 92-03-001, 4-18-1992)
4-4-9: RULES:
The fire chief of the town shall have the authority to make rules providing for
the safe operation of the stand and shall have the right to dictate that
ordinances regulating fireworks within the town and other pertinent information
are posted. The fire chief shall have the authority to temporarily suspend
operations at a fireworks stand in the event of a violation of any of the
provisions of this section or other municipal code. In the event of a temporary
suspension of the license, the town council shall hold a hearing within seventy
two (72) hours to either reinstate the license or to revoke it. (Ord. 92-03-
001, 4-18-1992)
4-4-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
Any person obtaining a license for the sale of fireworks within the town shall
post in a clearly visible fashion the current ordinance, if any, regulating the
use of fireworks within the town. (1987 Code § 7-1)
4-4-11: SALE, DISCHARGE AND DETONATION RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, discharge or detonate any
fireworks within the town except for the place or places and time or times each
year the governing body designates. (1987 Code § 7-1)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Adoption Of Uniform Act Regulating Traffic On Highways
5-1-3: Applicability
5-1-4: Rights Of Owners Of Real Property
5-1-5: Operation Of Snowmobiles
5-1-6: Penalty
5-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be cited as the TRAFFIC CODE OF THE TOWN OF GUERNSEY, WYOMING.
(1987 Code § 8-1)
5-1-2: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ON HIGHWAYS:
The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways in title 31, Wyoming Statutes,
1977, as amended, is hereby adopted in its entirety, as applicable, and:
TopicWyoming Statutes section:6-3-107Throwing burning substance from vehicle;
penalties6-3-204Littering24-1-110Exhibition of acceleration31-4-101Vehicle
registration31-4-103Compulsory auto insurance31-7-110Instruction and temporary
driver's permit31-7-116Carrying and displaying31-7-117Restricted licenses31-7-
133Unlawful use of license31-7-135Permitting unlicensed person to drive
(Ord. 2018-001, 1-16-2018)
5-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Vehicles Of State, Municipality 1 :
      1.   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned and operated
by the United States, this State or any county, city, town or other political
subdivision of the State, except as provided in this section and subject to
such specific exceptions as are set forth in this chapter with reference to
authorized emergency vehicles.
      2.   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon a street but shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work. (1987 Code § 8-3)
   B.   Persons Riding Animals 2 : Every person riding an animal or driving any
animal drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except those provisions of this title which by their very nature can
have no application. (1987 Code § 8-4)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 31-5-105.
2 1. WS § 31-5-107.
5-1-4: RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY 1 :
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property,
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner
and not as matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from requiring other
or different or additional conditions than those specified in this title or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner. (1987 Code § 8-7;
amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 35-1-111.
5-1-5: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES 1 :
No person shall operate a snowmobile upon the streets or highways within the
town. (1987 Code § 8-10; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 3. WS § 31-5-801.
5-1-6: PENALTY 1 :
It shall be unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this title with respect
to particular offenses, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title. (1987 Code § 8-6;
amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 4. See section 1-4-2 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
OPERATION OF VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Applicability
5-2-2: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
5-2-3: Driving On Bicycle Paths
5-2-4: Parades Or Processions
5-2-5: Railroad Cars Blocking Streets
5-2-6: School Zones
5-2-7: Speed Limits
5-2-8: Overweight Vehicles
5-2-9: Compression Brakes
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 31-5-201 - 31-5-234.
5-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles anywhere within the corporate limits
of the Town except as otherwise specifically provided. (1987 Code § 8-13)
5-2-2: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   When Privileges Allowed: The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle,
when responding to an emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not upon returning from
a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but
subject to the conditions herein stated.
   B.   Privileges: The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   C.   Audible Signals; Flashing Red Light: The exemptions herein granted to
an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such
vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle
as may be reasonably necessary and when the vehicle is equipped with at least
one lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of such
vehicle; except, that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in front
of the vehicle.
   D.   Due Regard For Safety; Consequences Of Reckless Disregard: The
foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his
reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1987 Code § 8-14)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 31-5-106.
5-2-3: DRIVING ON BICYCLE PATHS:
No person shall drive, operate, park or place any vehicle on any area
designated as a bicycle path. (1987 Code § 8-20; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-2-4: PARADES OR PROCESSIONS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: (Rep. by Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
   B.   Driving Through Funerals Or Other Processions:
      1.   Funeral Processions; Right-Of-Way: A funeral procession led by a
funeral car or escorted by a police vehicle and displaying flashing lights
authorized under Wyoming law has the right-of-way in the lane or portion of the
roadway upon which it is traveling subject to the following:
         a.   The driver of the lead vehicle of the procession shall comply
with all traffic control devices except when otherwise directed by a law
enforcement officer. Vehicles in the procession displaying headlamps may follow
the lead vehicle without stopping at stop signs or traffic signals. Vehicles in
the procession shall yield the right of way to authorized emergency vehicles;
         b.   Vehicles in a funeral procession shall be driven on the right
hand side of the roadway and, if a laned roadway, in the right hand lane
nearest the right hand edge of the roadway.
      2.   Oncoming Vehicles: Drivers of oncoming vehicles are required to
yield the right of way to funeral processions.
      3.   Driving Between Vehicles In Procession: No driver of a vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession
while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously marked. This
section shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic
control signals or police officers. (1987 Code § 8-36; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-
4-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 31-5-110.
5-2-5: RAILROAD CARS BLOCKING STREETS:
No engineer, fireman, conductor, or other person in the employ of any railway
company shall permit any locomotive, tender, passenger, baggage or freight car
to stand or be upon any crossing where the track of any railway company shall
cross any of the streets, avenues or alleys of the town for a longer period
than five (5) minutes at any one time. (1987 Code § 8-37; amd. Ord. 11-04-002,
5-4-2010)
5-2-6: SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   Designation: During the hours from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the days only while the schools are in session, or
school activities, all alleys, streets and intersections adjacent to the public
schools in the town and adjacent to all property used for school and school
play purposes are hereby designated as school zones together with any other
alleys, streets and intersections in the town which are hereafter designated by
the chief of police and marked as such. (1987 Code § 8-44; amd. Ord. 11-04-002,
5-4-2010)
   B.   Drivers To Exercise Due Care: Every driver of a motor vehicle shall
exercise extreme care in approaching and driving through such areas during the
hours prescribed in subsection A of this section on the days that the schools
are in session. At all intersections in the school zones where stop signs are
maintained, it shall be the duty of every driver of a motor vehicle to stop and
remain stopped to permit any child to cross, when such child or children are
waiting at the curb or within five feet (5') thereof. (1987 Code § 8-45; amd.
Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
   C.   Passing 1 : No passing shall be permitted in school zones. (1987 Code §
8-46; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 31-5-207.
5-2-7: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Rule: No person shall drive a vehicle on a street at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
   B.   Maximum Limits: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this section shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      1.   Schools: Twenty (20) miles per hour when passing a school building,
or grounds thereof, or a school crossing, during school recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours;
provided, that the presence of such school building, grounds thereof or school
crossing is indicated plainly by signs or signals conforming to the provisions
hereof.
      2.   Urban Districts: Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any urban
district.
      3.   Highway 26: Thirty (30) miles per hour on Highway 26. (1987 Code §
8-51; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
   C.   Minimum Speeds:
      1.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
      2.   Whenever local authorities have determined on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on any part of a street
consistently impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic and a minimum
speed limit has been established and signs erected, no person shall drive a
vehicle at a speed less than such minimum speed, except when necessary for safe
operation or in compliance with law. (1987 Code § 8-52; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-
4-2010)
   D.   Motor Driven Cycles: No person shall operate any motor driven cycle at
any time from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before
sunrise and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are not clearly
discernible at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000') at a speed greater than
thirty five (35) miles per hour unless such motor driven cycle is equipped with
a headlamp or lamps which are adequate to reveal a person or vehicle at a
distance of three hundred feet (300') ahead. (1987 Code § 8-53; amd. Ord. 11-
04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-2-8: OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES:
No commercial vehicle (including tractor trailer combinations), the total
weight of which, regardless of the number of axles loaded or unloaded, exceeds
twenty thousand (20,000) pounds shall be permitted upon the streets and/or
alleys of the Town of Guernsey at any time. Excluding those vehicles conducting
business within the Town of Guernsey (e.g., trash service, UPS, material
deliveries, tour buses, etc.), the driver of any vehicle violating this section
shall be cited and subject to the penalty provisions of the Town of Guernsey.
(Ord. 06-16-15, 7-21-2015)
5-2-9: COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Definitions:
   ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE: Any motor vehicle brake that is operated by the
compression of the engine of the motor vehicle or any unit or part thereof. An
engine compression brake is also referred to as a "Jake brake".
   B.   Use Of Compression Brakes: No person shall use motor vehicle brakes
which are in any way activated or operated by the compression of the engine of
such motor vehicle or any unit or part thereof within the corporate limits of
the Town of Guernsey.
   C.   Penalty For Violation: Violation of this section by any person is
hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus costs. Violation of
this section shall be deemed a separate offense on each day that a violation
shall occur. (Ord. 2018-002, 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Obedience
5-3-2: Authority To Install
5-3-3: Defacing, Destroying Devices
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 31-5-113, 31-5-401 – 31-5-406.
5-3-1: OBEDIENCE 1 :
   A.   Required: The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title.
   B.   Improperly Placed Or Illegible Signs: No provision of this chapter for
which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at
the time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
   C.   Devices Placed: Whenever official traffic control devices are placed or
held in position approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter,
the devices are presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority unless the contrary is established by competent
evidence.
   D.   Compliance With This Chapter: Any official traffic control device
placed or held pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and purporting to
conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to the devices is presumed to
comply with the requirements of this chapter unless the contrary is established
by competent evidence. (1987 Code § 8-58)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 31-5-402.
5-3-2: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL 1 :
The town shall place and maintain such traffic control devices as it may deem
necessary to indicate and to carry out the provisions of this chapter or other
local traffic ordinances or to regulate, warn or guide traffic. All such
traffic control devices hereafter erected shall conform to the state manual and
specifications. (1987 Code § 8-60)
 
Notes
1 3. WS § 31-5-401.
5-3-3: DEFACING, DESTROYING DEVICES:
No unauthorized person shall deface, injure, knock down or remove any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription,
shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof. (1987 Code § 8-64; amd. Ord.
11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 4
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING 1
SECTION:
5-4-1: Railroad Crossings
5-4-2: Businesses Permitting Vehicles To Park On Sidewalks Or Streets
Prohibited
5-4-3: Parking On Private Property
5-4-4: Diagonal Parking
5-4-5: Obstruction Of Traffic
5-4-6: Parking In Alley
5-4-7: Parking Adjacent To Schools
5-4-8: Truck Parking
5-4-9: Restrictions On Parking
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 31-5-501 - 31-5-512.
5-4-1: RAILROAD CROSSINGS 1 :
   A.   Stop Required: Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a
railroad grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section,
the driver of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than
fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not
proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of a highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   Crossing Barrier Prohibited: No person shall drive any vehicle through,
around or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such
gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed. (1987 Code § 8-68; amd.
Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 31-5-510.
5-4-2: BUSINESSES PERMITTING VEHICLES TO PARK ON SIDEWALKS OR STREETS
PROHIBITED 1 :
No person, whether owner or occupant of any garage, salesroom or other place of
business, shall permit any motor vehicle whether the same is left for
safekeeping, repair or storage, or whether same is stock in trade, to be or
remain on any sidewalk, street or alley. (1987 Code § 8-69; amd. Ord. 11-04-
002, 5-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103.
5-4-3: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall drive or park upon any private property, or on any property
where driving and parking is prohibited by order of chief of police, unless
such operator has permission of the owner. Cost of removal of such vehicle will
be borne by such trespassing vehicle's owner. (1987 Code § 8-71; amd. Ord. 11-
04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-4-4: DIAGONAL PARKING:
All vehicles in the town when parked shall be placed adjacent to and parallel
to the curb, unless otherwise indicated by signs or parking stripes. (1987 Code
§ 8-75; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-4-5: OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. (1987 Code
§ 8-76; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-4-6: PARKING IN ALLEY:
No person shall park a vehicle in an alley except while conducting business
through any drive-up facility or loading or unloading freight and then not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes. (1987 Code § 8-77; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-4-7: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking
would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
When official signs are erected indicating no parking, no person shall park a
vehicle in such a designated place. (1987 Code § 8-78; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-
4-2010)
5-4-8: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   No combination of semi-tractor and trailer or semitrailer by itself may
be parked on a residential street except for the purpose of loading or
unloading.
   B.   No overnight parking in the corporate limits of vehicles transporting
hazardous materials defined as follows: explosive, flammable, combustible,
corrosive, oxidizing, toxic, infectious, or radioactive materials that when
involved in an accident and released in sufficient quantities put some portion
of the general public in immediate danger from exposure, contact, inhalation,
or ingestion. (Ord. 03-01-14, 4-1-2014)
5-4-9: RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING 1 :
No person shall stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
   A.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   B.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   C.   Within twenty feet (20') of crosswalk at an intersection.
   D.   Within twenty feet (20') upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   E.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy-five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted.
   F.   At any place where official traffic-control devices prohibit standing.
(Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 WS § § 31-5-504(ii)(A-F).
CHAPTER 5
EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Inspection Of Vehicle
5-5-1: INSPECTION OF VEHICLE:
No person driving a vehicle shall refuse to submit such vehicle to an
inspection and test when required to do so by a police officer of the town.
(1987 Code § 8-102; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 6
CHILD SAFETY RESTRAINT 1
SECTION:
5-6-1: Short Title
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Use Required; Exceptions (Rep. by Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-5: Limited Application
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 311-5-1301 et seq.
5-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter is known and may cited as the CHILD SAFETY RESTRAINT ACT. (1987
Code § 8-126)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   CHILD SAFETY RESTRAINT SYSTEM: Any device which is designed to protect, hold
or restrain a child in a privately owned, leased or rented noncommercial
passenger car in such a way as to prevent or minimize injury to the child in
the event of a motor vehicle accident or sudden stop and which conforms to the
standards prescribed by 49 CFR 571.213 or to applicable federal motor vehicle
safety standards in effect at the time of manufacture.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle or vehicle combination used for the
transportation of persons for hire, compensation or profit, or designed or used
primarily for the transportation of property for gain or profit.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Any fire department vehicle, police, sheriff's department
or highway patrol vehicle, civil defense vehicle, ambulance, hearse or other
vehicle used primarily for emergency purposes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   PASSENGER VEHICLE: A motor vehicle, excluding emergency and law enforcement
vehicles, designed to carry people and that was equipped with safety belts at
the time of manufacture.
   SCHOOL BUS: A motor vehicle that is owned by or leased to or registered to a
public school district or private school or church and is used to transport
children to or from school or church or in connection with school or church
activities and is designed for and capable of carrying twelve (12) or more
passengers.
   SEATING POSITION: Any motor vehicle interior space intended by the motor
vehicle manufacturer to provide seating accommodation while the motor vehicle
is in motion. (1987 Code § 8-127; amd. 2005 Code)
5-6-3: USE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall be issued a citation and fined not
more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense; provided, that the fine
shall be waived by the court upon receipt of proof by the court that the
offender, after the offense occurred, has purchased, leased or otherwise
acquired a child safety restraint system which meets the requirements of this
chapter. For a second or subsequent violation of this chapter, the offender
shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1987 Code § 8-129;
amd. 2005 Code)
5-6-5: LIMITED APPLICATION:
Violation of this chapter does not constitute evidence of negligence or
recklessness and does not constitute a basis for criminal prosecution except as
set forth in this chapter. (1987 Code § 8-130)
CHAPTER 7
ACCIDENTS 1
SECTION:
5-7-1: Investigation Of Accidents
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 31-5-1101 – 31-5-1112.
5-7-1: INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS:
It shall be the duty of the police officers of the town to investigate traffic
accidents, to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of persons charged with
violation of law(s) causing or contributing to such accidents. (1987 Code § 8-
103)
CHAPTER 8
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Roller Skates And Coasters
5-8-1: ROLLER SKATES AND COASTERS:
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(1987 Code § 8-92; amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 9
BICYCLES
SECTION:
5-9-1: When Provisions Effective
5-9-1: WHEN PROVISIONS EFFECTIVE 1 :
The provisions of this chapter and any traffic regulations applicable to
bicyclists shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway, any
sidewalk or any path set aside for the use of bicyclists. (1987 Code § 8-80;
amd. Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010; Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 WSS § 31-5 Article 7 Bicycles and Electric Bicycles.
CHAPTER 10
ALCOHOL RELATED DRIVING OFFENSES
(Rep. by Ord. 11-04-002, 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION 1
SECTION:
5-11-1: Authority Of Police To Enforce And Direct Traffic
5-11-2: Temporary Roadblocks
5-11-3: Directing Traffic At Scene Of Fire
5-11-4: Obedience To Police Officers
5-11-5: Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officers
5-11-6: Parties To Crime
5-11-7: Traffic Citations
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to power of town to enforce traffic regulations, see WS §
  31-5-109.
5-11-1: AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE AND DIRECT TRAFFIC:
   A.   Enforcement Of Traffic Laws: It shall be the duty of the officers of
the police department or such officers as are assigned by the chief of police
to enforce all street traffic laws of the town and all of the state vehicle
laws applicable to street traffic in the town.
   B.   Direct Traffic: Officers of the police department or such officers as
are assigned by the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
by voice, hand or signal in conformance with the traffic laws; provided, that,
in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(1987 Code § 8-111)
5-11-2: TEMPORARY ROADBLOCKS 1 :
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, a "temporary roadblock"
means any device or means used by duly authorized law enforcement officers of
the police department for the purpose of controlling all traffic through a
point on any street, thoroughfare, roadway or highway within the town whereby
all vehicles may be slowed or stopped for the purposes enumerated in subsection
C of this section. (1987 Code § 8-112)
   B.   Authority To Establish: The members of the police department are hereby
authorized to establish temporary roadblocks upon the streets and highways of
the town for the purpose of apprehending persons reasonably believed by the
officers to be wanted for violation of this code, the laws of this state, any
other state or the United States and using any such street or highway. (1987
Code § 8-113)
   C.   Minimum Requirements: For the purpose of warning and protecting the
traveling public, the minimum requirements to be met by police officers
establishing temporary roadblocks, if time and circumstances allow, shall be as
follows:
      1.   The temporary roadblocks must be established at a point on the
highway or street clearly visible at a distance of not less than two hundred
(200) yards in either direction; (1987 Code § 8-114)
      2.   At the point of the temporary roadblock flashing warning lights
shall be visible to oncoming traffic for a distance of not less than two
hundred (200) yards. The display of flashing emergency warning lights on a
marked law enforcement vehicle shall be sufficient under this subsection; and
(1987 Code § 8-114; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   At least one person working a law enforcement roadblock shall be in
uniform and visible, and at least one vehicle used in a law enforcement
roadblock shall be clearly marked as a law enforcement vehicle. (1987 Code § 8-
114)
   D.   Failure To Stop: It shall be unlawful for any person to proceed or
travel through a temporary roadblock without subjecting himself to the traffic
control so established. (1987 Code § 8-115)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 7-17-101 et seq.
5-11-3: DIRECTING TRAFFIC AT SCENE OF FIRE:
Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, shall direct or
assist the police officers in directing traffic in the immediate vicinity of
such fire. (1987 Code § 8-116)
5-11-4: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS 1 :
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer vested by law with authority to direct, control
or regulate traffic, while such officer is directing, controlling or regulating
traffic by voice, hand of signal. (1987 Code § 8-117)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 31-5-104.
5-11-5: FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICERS 1 :
Any driver of a motor vehicle who wilfully fails or refuses to bring his
vehicle to a stop, or who otherwise flees or attempts to elude a pursuing
police vehicle, when given visual or audible signal to bring the vehicle to a
stop, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The signal given by the police officer
may be by hand, voice, emergency light or siren. The officer giving such signal
shall be in uniform, prominently displaying his badge of office, and his
vehicle shall be appropriately marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle. (1987 Code § 8-118)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 41-5-225.
5-11-6: PARTIES TO CRIME:
Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or aid or
abets in the commission of, any act declared herein to be a crime, whether
individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as a principal,
agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense, and every person who
falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires,
permits or directs another to violate any provision of this chapter is likewise
guilty of such offense. (1987 Code § 8-119)
5-11-7: TRAFFIC CITATIONS 1 :
   A.   When Required; Contents; When Permissible:
      1.   Issuance By Police Officer: Whenever a person is halted by a police
officer for any violation of this chapter the officer shall prepare a written
traffic citation containing a notice to appear in court.
      2.   Time Specified To Appear: The time specified in the notice to appear
must be at least five (5) days after the alleged violation unless the person
charged with the violation shall demand an earlier hearing.
      3.   Place Of Appearance: The place specified in the notice to appear
must be before the municipal judge of the town.
      4.   Written Promise To Appear: The person charged with the violation may
give his written promise to appear in court by signing at least one copy of the
written traffic citation prepared by the officer, in which event the officer
shall deliver a copy of the citation to the person, and thereupon, the officer
shall not take the person into physical custody for the violation.
      5.   Unavailability Of Judge: Whenever a person is taken into custody by
an officer for the purpose of taking him before a judge and no judge is
available at the time of arrest, and there is no bail schedule established by
the judge and no other lawful person is available and authorized to accept bail
upon behalf of the judge, the person shall be released from custody upon the
issuance to him of a written traffic citation and his signing a promise to
appear as provided herein. (1987 Code § 8-120)
   B.   Appearance:
      1.   Violation Of Written Promise: It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate his written promise to appear given to an officer upon the issuance of
a traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such
citation was originally issued.
      2.   Appearance By Counsel: A written promise to appear in court may be
complied with by an appearance by counsel. (1987 Code § 8-121)
   C.   Fine Schedule: The municipal judge shall designate the specified
offenses under this title and other traffic ordinances of the town, and shall
specify, by suitable schedules, the amount of such fines for first, second, and
subsequent offenses, provided such fines are within the limits declared by
state law or this code or other ordinances of the town, and shall further
specify what offenses shall require appearance before the municipal judge.
(1987 Code § 8-122)
   D.   Failure To Comply: In the event any person fails to comply with a
notice given to such person or attached to a vehicle or fails to make
appearance in the traffic court, or if any person fails or refuses to deposit
bail as required and within the time permitted by the provisions of this code
or other town ordinance, the municipal judge shall forthwith issue a bench
warrant for his arrest. (1987 Code § 8-123)
   E.   Disposition: All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon
the forfeiture of bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this title shall be paid to the town clerk-treasurer and
deposited in the general fund of the town. (1987 Code § 8-124)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 31-5-1205 and 31-5-1207.
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Overhanging Mailboxes
6-1-2: Sidewalks And Curbs, Construction And Repair
6-1-3: Numbering Of Buildings
6-1-1: OVERHANGING MAILBOXES:
No mailbox shall be placed in such a position so that the box encroaches upon
or overhangs any sidewalk or the improved or travelled portion of any street of
the town. (1987 Code § 14-1)
6-1-2: SIDEWALKS AND CURBS, CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
All sidewalks, curbs or gutters hereafter constructed or repaired within the
town shall be constructed or repaired by the owners of the property abutting on
such sidewalks, curbs or gutters or at the expense of such owners. (1987 Code §
14-2)
6-1-3: NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Responsibility To Erect, Maintain And Display: Every person who shall
own or control a dwelling house or other building within the town fronting on a
street and avenue shall erect, maintain and display in a conspicuous place on
such building the proper numbers. (1987 Code § 14-3)
   B.   Mobile Homes:
      1.   Located Outside Mobile Home Park: Every mobile home not in a mobile
home park shall be numbered as required by subsection A of this section. (1987
Code § 14-4)
      2.   Located Within Mobile Home Park: Every lot space within a mobile
home park shall be numbered in consecutive numerical order beginning with the
number one. The owner of every mobile home park shall place numbers on each
mobile home within the park in numerals at least four inches (4") in height and
at least seven feet (7') above ground level, the same to be placed on either
corner of the mobile home on the approach side as determined by the Guernsey
fire department. Every mobile home within a mobile home park shall be numbered
to correspond to the lot space. (1987 Code § 14-5)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Fences And Curbs
6-2-2: Restrictions On Use
6-2-3: Headstone
6-2-4: Unsightly Structures
6-2-1: FENCES AND CURBS:
No person shall build any fence or curb on or around any lot in the cemetery.
(1987 Code § 5-1)
6-2-2: RESTRICTIONS ON USE:
The use of any cemetery lot is restricted to burial purposes and the planting
of trees, shrubs, plants, flowers and grass, and for the placing of proper
headstones. (1987 Code § 5-1)
6-2-3: HEADSTONE:
No headstone shall stand at a height greater than five and one-half feet (51/
2') from the surface of the ground. (1987 Code § 5-2)
6-2-4: UNSIGHTLY STRUCTURES:
If any structure or other construction shall become in a state of disrepair or
in an unsightly and dilapidated condition, the same may be removed by the town.
(1987 Code § 5-2)
CHAPTER 3
TOWN BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Use Of Tobacco
6-3-2: Operation Of Motor Vehicle Within Confines
6-3-3: Penalty
6-3-1: USE OF TOBACCO:
   A.   Definition: "Tobacco products" means any substance containing tobacco
leaf, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco.
   B.   Prohibited: The use of any tobacco product within the buildings owned
by the town of Guernsey is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 92-12-001, 1-12-1993)
6-3-2: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHIN CONFINES:
The operation of a motor vehicle within the confines of buildings owned by the
town of Guernsey is hereby prohibited, unless proper ventilation for the
exhaust fumes is provided. (Ord. 92-12-001, 1-12-1993)
6-3-3: PENALTY:
In the event either of the above sections is violated, said violation is a
misdemeanor and punishable by the general penalty provisions set forth in
section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 92-12-001, 1-12-1993)
CHAPTER 4
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Access To Public Rights-Of-Way
6-4-3: Town Council Review
6-4-4: Public Rights-Of-Way Construction And Installation Requirements
6-4-5: Attachment To And Replacement Of Decorative Poles
6-4-6: General Work Requirements
6-4-7: Additional Submittal Requirements For Macrocell Towers
6-4-8: Location Of New Facilities
6-4-9: Removal, Relocation, And Abandonment
6-4-10: Indemnification
6-4-11: Venue
6-4-12: Insurance
6-4-13: Independent RF Technical And Legal Review
6-4-14: Federal Shot Clocks
6-4-15: Other Review And Approvals
6-4-16: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
               Communications equipment that transmits and/or receives radio frequency signals used
ANTENNA:       in the provision of wireless services. This definition does not apply to broadcast
               antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use or satellite dishes for
               residential or household purposes.
               A single or group of antenna elements and associated mounting hardware, transmission
ANTENNA ARRAY: lines, remote radio units, or other appurtenances which share a common attachment
               device such as a mounting frame, for the sole purpose of transmitting or receiving
               wireless communication signals.
APPLICABLE     Uniform Building, Fire, Safety, Electrical, Plumbing or Mechanical Codes adopted by
CODES:         a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted
               by the Town, including any amendments.
APPLICANT:     Any person who submits an application under this chapter.
APPLICATION:   A written request, on a form provided by the Town, for a permit.
               The mounting or installation of equipment on an existing tower, building or
COLLOCATION:   structure for the purpose of transmitting or receiving radio frequency signals for
               communications purposes.
DECORATIVE     A pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
POLE:
DISTRIBUTED    A network consisting of transceiver equipment at a central hub site to support
ANTENNA        multiple antenna locations throughout the desired coverage area.
SYSTEM:
ELIGIBLE
FACILITIES     As defined in federal regulations.
REQUEST:
FAA:           The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC:           The Federal Communications Commission.
GOVERNING      The group of elected officials which can make decisions on behalf of the Town (for
BODY:          example, the Town Council).
LAWS:          Collectively, any and all federal, state, or local law, statute, common law, code,
               rule, regulation, order, or ordinance.
MACROCELL:     An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast, rooftops or
               structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding area.
ORDINARY       Inspections, testing or repair that maintain functional capacity, aesthetic and
MAINTENANCE    structural integrity of a wireless communication facility and the associated
AND REPAIR:    structure, pole or tower, and that does not involve impeding, damaging or disturbing
               any portion of the public right-of-way.
PERMIT:        A written authorization (in electronic or hard copy format) to install, at a
               specified location in the public right-of-way, a wireless communication facility.
PERMITTEE:     An applicant that has received a permit under this chapter.
PERSON:        An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association,
               trust or other entity or organization.
               A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting or similar pole made of
POLE:          wood, concrete, metal or other material, located or to be located within the public
               right-of-way.
               A wireless services provider or wireless infrastructure provider and includes any
PROVIDER:      person that owns or operates wireless communication facilities within the public
               rights-of-way.
               The area on, below, or above property that has been designated for use as or is used
PUBLIC RIGHT-  for a public roadway, highway, street, sidewalk, alley or similar purpose, and for
OF-WAY:        purposes of this chapter shall include public utility easements, but only to the
               extent the Town has the authority to permit use of the public utility easement for
               wireless communication facilities.
               Unless otherwise specified or restricted by the terms of the easement, the area on,
PUBLIC UTILITY below, or above a property in which the property owner has dedicated an easement for
EASEMENT:      use by utilities. PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT does not include an easement dedicated
               solely for Town use, or where the proposed use by the provider is inconsistent with
               the terms of any easement granted to the Town.
               In connection with wireless communication facilities and a corresponding pole,
REPLACES or    structure or tower, to replace (or the replacement of) the same with something that
REPLACEMENT:   is substantially similar in design, size, color and scale to the existing facilities
               or structure and in conformance with this chapter and any other applicable Town
               regulations.
               A.   Encompasses facilities that meet the following conditions:
                  1.   The facilities:
                     a.   Are mounted on structures fifty (50') feet or less in height including
               their antennas; or
                     b.   Are mounted on structures no more than ten percent (10%) taller than
               other adjacent structures; or
                     c.   Do not extend existing structures on which they are located to a height
               of more than fifty (50') feet or by more than ten percent (10%), whichever is
               greater;
                  2.   Each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding associated antenna
               equipment, is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume;
SMALL WIRELESS    3.   All other wireless equipment associated with the structure, including the
FACILITIES:    wireless equipment associated with the antenna and any pre-existing associated
               equipment on the structure, is no more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet in volume;
                  4.   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under federal
               law;
                  5.   The facilities are not located on tribal land as defined under federal law;
               and
                  6.   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency radiation
               in excess of the applicable safety standards specified under federal law.
               B.   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
               calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
               telecommunications demarcation box, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
               off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
STATE:         The State of Wyoming.
               A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication facilities by
               camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending them into the surrounding
               environment. Examples of STEALTH design include, but are not limited to, facilities
STEALTH:       disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and light poles, bell towers,
               clock towers, ball field lights and architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas
               or flush-mounted antennas that are either painted to match or enclosed in an
               architecturally, applicable box.
SUBSTANTIAL    As defined in federal regulations.
CHANGE:
TOWER:         Any structure in the public right-of-way built for the sole or primary purpose of
               supporting a wireless communication facility.
               The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower structure at grade to the
TOWER HEIGHT:  highest point of the structure including the antenna. A lightning rod, not to exceed
               ten (10') feet in height, shall not be included within tower height.
TOWN:          The Town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
TOWN COUNCIL   Review of an application by the Town relating to the issuance of a permit to
REVIEW:        determine whether the issuance of a permit is in conformity with the applicable
               provisions of this chapter.
               Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless
               communication service, including, but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas,
TRANSMISSION   microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-optic cable and backup power supplies. The term
EQUIPMENT:     includes equipment associated with wireless communication services including, but
               not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as
               unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
WIRELESS       Collectively, the equipment at a fixed location or locations within the public
COMMUNICATION  right-of-way that enables wireless communication services, including for example:
FACILITY or    radio transceivers, support structures, poles, antennas, coaxial, fiber-optic or
WIRELESS       other cabling, power supplies (including battery backup), and comparable equipment,
COMMUNICATION  regardless of technological configuration and small wireless facilities and
FACILITIES:    distributed antenna systems.
WIRELESS       A person, other than a wireless services provider, that builds or installs towers,
INFRASTRUCTURE wireless transmission equipment, wireless facilities poles or wireless support
PROVIDER:      structures.
WIRELESS       Any wireless services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed
SERVICES:      location or mobile, provided to the public.
WIRELESS
SERVICES       A person who provides wireless services. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
PROVIDER:
6-4-2: ACCESS TO PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Agreement: Prior to installing in the public right-of-way any wireless
communication facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting a wireless communication facility, or any tower, a person shall
enter into an agreement with the Town expressly authorizing use of the public
right-of- way for the wireless communication facility, pole or tower proposed
to be installed. The agreement shall provide for the attachment to Town-owned
poles or structures in the public right-of-way in addition to poles or
structures owned by unrelated third parties, provided that the applicant
secures the written consent of the third party for such attachment.
   B.   General Terms:
   1.   The term of an agreement shall be for up to five (5) years. The
agreement may be renewed for an additional term of five (5) years subject to
the mutual written agreement of the Town and provider.
   2.   The agreement authorizes the provider's non-exclusive use of the public
right-of-way for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this chapter and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the public right-of-way in which the Town
has an actual interest. It is not a warranty of title or interest in any public
right-of-way and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any
particular location or to a superior or preferred location within the public
right-of-way. Nothing herein shall authorize the use of the Town's poles,
towers, support structures or other structures in the public right-of-way. All
use of Town poles, towers, support structures, and other structures in the
public right-of-way shall require a separate attachment agreement or be
specifically provided for in the agreement and shall include the payment of
fees for such use.
   3.   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain its
wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures and towers in the
public right-of-way in a safe condition, and in good order and repair.
   4.   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider's small wireless
facilities or related poles, support structures or towers, the provider shall
immediately notify the Town of the nature of the emergency and planned response
to the emergency.
   C.   Permit Required: No person may construct, install or maintain in the
public right-of-way any wireless communication facilities without first
receiving a permit from the Town. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event
of an emergency, a provider or its duly authorized representative may work in
the public right-of-way prior to obtaining a permit, provided that the provider
shall contact the Town prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a
permit as soon as reasonably possible, but not later than twenty four (24)
hours after commencing the emergency work. For purposes of this division, an
"emergency" means a circumstance which immediate repair to damaged or
malfunctioning facilities is necessary to restore lost service or prevent
immediate harm to persons or property.
   D.   Permit Application Requirements: The application shall be submitted by
the provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain the
following:
   1.   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and email address,
including emergency contact information for the applicant;
   2.   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with respect
to the filing of the application;
   3.   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication facility
sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   4.   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the pole,
tower or support structure on or in which the wireless communication facility
will be placed or attached;
   5.   Detailed construction drawings and photo simulations regarding the
proposed wireless communication facility;
   6.   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility involves
collocation on a pole, tower or support structure, a structural report
performed by a Wyoming licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes;
   7.   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities, accurate
visual depictions or representations, if not included in the construction
drawings or photo simulations; and
   8.   Any other submission requirements per published Town policies or
regulations.
   E.   Proprietary Or Confidential Information In Application: Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the Wyoming
Public Records Act, Wyoming Statutes sections 16-4-201 through 16-4-205.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicant may designate portions of its
application materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or
confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking
each portion of such materials accordingly, and the Town shall treat the
information as proprietary and confidential, subject to the Wyoming Public
Records Act and the Town's determination that the applicant's request for
confidential or proprietary treatment of application materials is reasonable
and in compliance with such law. The Town shall not be required to incur any
costs to protect the application materials from disclosure, other than the
Town's routine procedures for complying with the Wyoming Public Records Act.
   F.   Ordinary Maintenance And Repair: A permit shall not be required for
ordinary maintenance and repair. The provider or other person performing the
ordinary maintenance and repair shall obtain any other permits required by
applicable laws and shall notify the Town in writing at least forty eight (48)
hours before performing the ordinary maintenance and repair.
   G.   Application Fees And Bonds: All applications pursuant to this chapter
shall be accompanied by the requisite fees required by the Town. Unless
otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in writing by the Town, a
performance or construction bond or other form of surety acceptable to the Town
equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the work
within the public right-of-way shall be provided before the applicant commences
work.
   H.   Effect Of Permit: A permit from the Town authorizes an applicant to
undertake only the activities in the public right-of-way specified in the
application and permit, and in accordance with this chapter and any conditions
included in the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of
existing poles, towers, support structures or other structures in the public
rights-of-way. A permittee or provider must obtain all necessary approvals from
the owner of any pole, tower, support structure or other structure prior to any
attachment or use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the public right-
of-way.
   I.   Duration: Any permit for construction issued under this chapter shall
be valid for a period of one (1) year, provided that the one (1) year period
may be extended for up to an additional one (1) year upon approval by the
governing body or its designee upon the written request of the applicant (made
prior to the end of the initial one (1) year period), if the failure to
complete construction is as a result of circumstances beyond the reasonable
control of the applicant.
   J.   Batch Permits: An applicant may simultaneously submit not more than ten
(10) applications for wireless communication facilities, or may file a single,
consolidated application covering such wireless communication facilities,
provided that the proposed wireless communication facilities are to be deployed
on the same type of structure using similar equipment within the Town. (Ord.
2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-3: TOWN COUNCIL REVIEW:
   A.   Approval Process: Small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way
may be approved through Town Council if the following requirements are met:
   1.   A complete application is submitted; all fees are paid and a permit is
obtained by the applicant or provider; and
   2.   Each new, modified or replacement pole, tower or structure installed in
the public right-of-way shall not exceed the height limits of the respective
zoning district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a conditional use
permit or special use permit is required; and
   3.   The applicant complies with all the other requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Design Standards: Subject to division (A) above, all poles built for
the sole or primary purpose of supporting wireless communication facilities may
be approved through administrative review if the following design guidelines
are also acceptable to the Town:
   1.   Height, shape, design and color for poles and related equipment;
   2.   Number, location and styles of poles that may be installed or used;
   3.   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related equipment;
   4.   Construction approach per wireless communication facility, including
powering and metering;
   5.   Structural integrity;
   6.   Set-backs for poles and ground-mounted equipment;
   7.   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be used only
to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities;
   8.   Lighting, marking and noise requirements;
   9.   Fencing, landscaping, screening, and signage requirements;
   10.   Collocation analysis;
   11.   Use of decorative poles, where necessary; and
   12.   A written report will be prepared, signed and sealed by a Wyoming
licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the applicant, which
assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility demonstrates compliance
with the radio frequency emissions limits established by the FCC. The qualified
employee of the applicant shall submit his or her qualifications with the
report. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-4: PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lighting: Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA or applicable Town regulation.
   B.   State Or Federal Requirements: All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC and any other agency of the
local, state or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   C.   Building Codes: To ensure the structural integrity of poles and towers,
the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is maintained
in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local building
code standards.
   D.   Public Notice: For purposes of this chapter, any application for a
wireless communication facility, including small wireless facilities, variance,
exception or appeal of a request for a permit requires public notice to all
adjoining property owners and all owners of surrounding properties as may be
required by the Town Code.
   E.   Equipment Cabinets: The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and zoning requirements. A site plan is also
required.
   F.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Not more than one (1) time per year, each
applicant for a macrocell tower shall provide to the Town an inventory of the
provider's existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas,
that are either within the jurisdiction of the Town or within one (1) mile of
the border thereof, including specific information about the location and tower
height. The Town may share such information with other applicants applying for
Town Council or other permits under this chapter or other organizations seeking
to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the Town, provided, however, that
the Town is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or
warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   G.   Color: To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and colored
to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host structure.
Towers shall be painted a color that best allows them to blend into the
surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze, browns or other
site-specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case shall be evaluated
individually.
   H.   Signs: No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the Town.
   I.   Visual Impact: All wireless communication facilities in residential
districts, historic and downtown districts shall be sited and designed with
stealth features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties
and the traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent
with the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such
wireless communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated
through location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of
the site. Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the
proposed location, design, visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and
natural features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed
to either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
   J.   Building-Mounted WCFs:
   1.   All transmission equipment shall be concealed within existing
architectural features to the extent feasible. Any new architectural features
proposed to conceal the transmission equipment shall be designed to mimic the
existing underlying structure, shall be as proportional as possible to the
existing underlying structure or conform to the underlying use and shall use
materials in similar quality, finish, color and texture as the existing
underlying structure.
   2.   All roof-mounted transmission equipment shall be set back from all roof
edges to the extent feasible consistent with the need for "line-of-sight"
transmission and reception of signals.
   3.   Antenna arrays and supporting transmission equipment shall be installed
to camouflage, disguise or conceal them to make them closely compatible with
and blend into the setting or host structure.
   K.   Placement And Notice:
   1.   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close as
technically possible to the pole to reduce the overall visual profile to the
extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
   2.   Prior to the installation or construction of a wireless communication
facility within the public right-of-way or utility easement, the provider must
notify all utilities located within such public right-of-way or utility
easement regarding its proposed use of the public right-of-way or utility
easement.
   L.   Accessory Equipment: All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider's choice) in an existing
building, underground, or in an equipment shelter or cabinet that is designed
to blend in with existing surroundings, using architecturally compatible
construction and colors; and be located so as to be unobtrusive as possible
consistent with the proper functioning of the wireless communication
facilities.
   M.   Site Design Flexibility: Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed to best camouflage, disguise or conceal them, to make the wireless
communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into the
setting or host structure, upon approval by the Town.
   N.   Landscaping, Screening And Fencing:
   1.   Equipment shelters and cabinets and other on the ground ancillary
equipment shall be screened with landscaping (except for those in the public
right- of-way) as required for the zone in which they are located or with
another design acceptable to the Town. Alternatively, where technically
feasible, the applicant may incorporate the cabinet and other equipment into
the base of a new pole (for example, for a small wireless facility) provided
there is adequate space in the public right-of-way and that the Americans with
Disabilities Act sidewalk accessibility requirements can be met. All provisions
of the Americans with Disabilities Act (including, but not limited to, clear
space requirements) shall be met by the provider.
   2.   Except for locations in the public right-of-way, a site-obscuring fence
(for example, wrought iron as opposed to barbed wire) shall be constructed
around each tower and around related support or guy anchors at the height
specified for the zoning district. Access shall only be through a locked gate.
Any fence shall comply with the other design guidelines of the Town Code.
   O.   New Poles: To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole or banner
clips).
   P.   As-Builts And Maps: The provider shall furnish to the Town paper and
electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in the public right-of-
way and as-builts after construction is completed. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-5: ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES:
   A.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the Town has determined, in
its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has been met:
   1.   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
   2.   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the aesthetics
of the decorative pole.
   B.   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the Town has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
   1.   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
   2.   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the aesthetics
and character of the decorative pole and Historic District. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-
7-2019)
6-4-6: GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Safety And Compliance With Laws: The permittee shall employ due
care during the installation, maintenance or any other work in the public
right- of-way, and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements
of applicable laws, Town guidelines, standards and practices and any additional
commonly accepted safety standards.
   B.   Traffic Control: Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic control devices, signs and lights to protect, warn
and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The
manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic control
plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic control and
safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation is restored
to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the Town.
   C.   Interference: The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the public right-of-way and shall locate its lines
and equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic
patterns (vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience
of owners of property that abut any public right-of-way.
   D.   Utility Locates: Before beginning any excavation in the public right-
of- way, the permittee shall comply with One Call of Wyoming.
   E.   Compliance With Permit:
   1.   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with
the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The Town and its
representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such further
information as they may require ensuring compliance with such requirements. All
work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans and
specifications for the work, or the requirements of this chapter, shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The Town may stop work in order
to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a wireless
communication facility, an applicant must obtain all other required approvals
as required by the Town. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-7: ADDITIONAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MACROCELL TOWERS:
In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the following shall also
accompany applications for macrocell towers:
   A.   Noise Study: A noise study shall be conducted, if requested by the
Town.
   B.   Site Plan: A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type,
height and width of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent
land uses and zoning, separation distances, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or renderings of
the proposed tower and any other structures, topography, parking, utility runs
and other information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-8: LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES:
   A.   The provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless communication
facilities to interfere with the use of the public right-of-way by the Town, by
the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be present in or
upon the public rights-of-way.
   B.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water or sewer
lines (or other public improvements) and communications facilities are located
underground within a public right-of-way, the provider with permission to
occupy the same portion of the public right-of-way shall locate its wireless
communication facilities underground at its own expense. The Town may, in its
sole discretion, approve above-ground placement of equipment cabinets,
pedestals and similar equipment. For facilities or equipment such as wireless
communication facilities that cannot, by their nature, operate unless located
above-ground, the provider and Town shall work to find a suitable location for
such facilities or equipment, which may be outside of the public right-of-way.
   C.   In performing any work in or affecting the public right-of-way, the
provider, and any agent or contractor of the provider, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   D.   The provider, or its agent or contractor, shall restore, repair and
replace any portion of the public right-of-way that is damaged or disturbed by
the provider's wireless communication facilities or work in or adjacent to the
public right-of-way as required in this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   E.   If the provider fails to timely restore, repair or replace the public
right-of- way as required in this section, the Town or its contractor may do so
and the provider shall pay the Town's costs and expenses in completing the
restoration, repair or replacement including attorneys' fees and expenses.
(Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-9: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, AND ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Town, the
provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the public right-of-way,
including relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities
underground (consistent with the provisions of this chapter), whenever the Town
has determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change
or alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or
installation of any Town improvement, the operations of the Town in, under or
upon the public right-of-way, or otherwise is in the public interest. The
provider shall be responsible to the Town for any damages the Town may incur as
a result of the provider's failure to remove or relocate its wireless
communication facilities.
   B.   The Town retains the right and privilege to cut or move any wireless
communication facility located within the public right-of-way of the Town, as
the Town may determine, in its sole discretion, to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public emergency. If circumstances permit, the Town
shall notify the provider and give the provider an opportunity to move its own
facilities prior to cutting or removing the wireless communication facilities.
In all cases the Town shall notify the provider after cutting or removing the
wireless communication facility as promptly as reasonably possible.
   C.   A provider shall notify the Town of abandonment of any wireless
communication facility at the time the decision to abandon is made; however, in
no case shall such notification be made later than thirty (30) days prior to
abandonment. Following receipt of such notice, the provider shall remove its
wireless communication facility at the provider's own expense, unless the Town
determines, in its sole discretion, that the wireless communication facility
may be abandoned in place. The provider shall remain solely responsible and
liable for all of its wireless communication facilities until they are removed
from the public right-of-way unless the Town agrees in writing to take
ownership of the abandoned wireless communication facilities.
   D.   If the provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its wireless
communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless communication
facilities as required in this section, the Town or its contractor may do so
and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses related to such work,
including any damages the Town incurs arising from the delay and attorneys'
fees and expenses. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
   The applicant and provider shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
Town, its agents, officers, officials and employees from any and all damages,
liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses, whether
for personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of or in connection
with the activities or performance of the applicant or provider. In the event
the Town becomes aware of any actions or claims, the Town shall promptly notify
the applicant and provider and reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is
expressly agreed that the Town shall have the right to approve, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the Town's
defense, and the applicant and the provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the
Town for any costs, expenses and attorneys' fees directly and necessarily
incurred by the Town in the course of the defense. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-11: VENUE:
   Venue for any judicial dispute between the Town and provider shall be in the
Eighth Judicial District Platte County, Wyoming. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-12: INSURANCE:
   No person shall own or operate a wireless communication facility within the
Town without having secured and always maintained in place insurance coverage
which conforms to the following:
   A.   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers compensation,
employer's liability and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
Town;
   B.   For a wireless communication facility in the public right-of-way or on
Town property, the commercial general liability insurance policy shall
specifically include the Town and its officers, officials, employees, and
agents as additional insureds;
   C.   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative of
an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a Best's
rating; and
   D.   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without thirty (30)
days prior written notice being given to the Town and the insurance must be
replaced by the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original
amounts. (Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-13: INDEPENDENT RF TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW:
Although the Town intends for Town staff to review applications to the extent
feasible, the Town may retain the services of an independent consultant and
attorney of its choice to provide technical and legal evaluations of permit
applications. The consultant shall have recognized qualifications in the field
of radio frequency engineering and the attorney in the field of wireless
communication facilities regulations and approval processes. The review may
include, but is not limited to (a) the accuracy and completeness of the items
submitted with the application; (b) the applicability of analysis and
techniques and methodologies proposed by the applicant; (c) the validity of
conclusions reached by the applicant; and (d) whether the proposed small
wireless facilities comply with the applicable approval criteria set forth in
this chapter. The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent consultant
and attorneys' fees through a deposit, estimated by the Town, within ten (10)
business days of the Town's request. When the Town requests such payment, the
application shall be deemed incomplete for purposes of application processing
time lines until the deposit is received. In the event that such costs and fees
do not exceed the deposit amount, the Town shall refund any unused portion
within thirty (30) days after the final permit is released or, if no final
permit is released, within thirty (30) days after the Town receives a written
request from the applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount,
then the applicant shall pay the difference to the Town before the permit is
issued. The consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized description of
the services provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall be limited to
a reasonable approximation of costs and the costs shall be reasonable. (Ord.
2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-14: FEDERAL SHOT CLOCKS:
   A.   Eligible Facilities Requests: This division implements section 6409(a)
of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), interpreted by the FCC in its Report
and Order No. 14-153, which requires a state or local government to approve any
eligible facilities request for a modification of an existing tower or base
station that does not result in a substantial change to the physical dimensions
of such tower or base station. Eligible facilities requests shall be governed
by the provisions of federal law including, but not limited to, application
review, the sixty (60) day shot clock, tolling and the deemed granted remedy.
Eligible facilities requests are subject to Town Council by the Town.
   B.   Small Wireless Facilities - Collocation On Existing Structures: This
division implements the sixty (60) day shot clock which is contained in the
FCC's Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order adopted September 26, 2018,
regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the
sixty (60) day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling
and available remedies.
   C.   Small Wireless Facilities - Construction (New Structures): This
division implements the ninety (90) day shot clock which is contained in the
FCC's Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order adopted September 26, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the
ninety (90) day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling
and available remedies.
   D.   Collocation For Other Than Small Wireless Facilities: This division
implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of
1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation applications
for other than small wireless facilities including, but not limited to,
application review, the ninety (90) day shot clock and tolling.
   E.   New Sites Or Towers: This division implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332
(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by
the FCC regarding new site or tower applications including, but not limited to,
application review, the one hundred fifty (150) day shot clock and tolling.
(Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-15: OTHER REVIEW AND APPROVALS:
   All other proposed installations within the public right-of-way involving
wireless communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not
qualify as small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a
conditional use permit or special use permit under the Town Code.
(Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
6-4-16: PENALTY:
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with
a fine of up to seven hundred and fifty dollars($750.00) for each violation.
Each day that a violation occurs or can exist by the applicant or provider
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-002, 5-7-2019)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM CODE FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption
7-1-2: Copy On File
7-1-3: Penalty
7-1-1: ADOPTION:
The uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, 1997 edition, as
adopted by the International Conference of Building Officials, Whittier,
California, is hereby adopted by reference as provided by Wyoming Statutes
section 15-1-119, as amended, as if it were fully set forth herein. (Ord. 99-
03-001, 4-13-1999)
7-1-2: COPY ON FILE:
At least one copy of the 1997 edition of the uniform code for abatement of
dangerous buildings shall be maintained on file in the office of the town
clerk-treasurer where it shall be available for public inspection during the
normal office hours of the town clerk. (Ord. 99-03-001, 4-13-1999)
7-1-3: PENALTY:
In addition to any civil remedies and penalties set forth in the uniform code
for the abatement of dangerous buildings, 1997 edition, any person or entity
found guilty of violating this chapter is subject to penalty as provided in
section 1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 99-03-001, 4-13-1999; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Adopted
7-2-2: Amendments
7-2-3: Rate Schedule
7-2-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Clerk of
the Town of Guernsey, Wyoming, being marked and designated as the International
Residential Code, 2018 edition, in its entirety, excluding chapter 29, section
P2904, appendix F and I as published by the International Code Council, be and
is hereby adopted as the Residential Code of the Town of Guernsey, in the State
of Wyoming for regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement,
enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition
of detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings
(townhouses) not more than two (2) stories in height with separate means of
egress as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Residential Code on file in the office of the Town
of Guernsey are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
7-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-005, 1-15-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-001, 4-2-2019)
7-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section R101.1. This ordinance shall be known as the residential code for one-
and two-family dwellings of Guernsey, Wyoming and shall be cited as such and
will be referred to as "this code."
Table R301.2(1) Insert:
a) Ground snow load; 30 lbs. per square foot.
b) Wind speed; 100 miles per hour.
c) Frost line depth; 42 inches.
d) Air freezing index; > 1000-2000.
e) Mean annual temperature; 45 degrees Fahrenheit.
Section P2603.6.1 Insert:
Building sewers shall be a minimum of 48 inches below grade.
Section P3103.1 Insert:
All open vents which extend through the roof shall be terminated at least
eighteen (18) inches above the roof or four (4) inches above the anticipated
snow accumulation.
   (Ord. 2012-005, 1-15-2013)
7-2-3: RATE SCHEDULE:
The rate schedule used to determine the cost of the building permit shall be
kept on file at the Clerk's Office at the Guernsey Town Hall. This rate may be
periodically reviewed and changed as required. (Ord. 2012-005, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Adopted
7-3-2: Amendments
7-3-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Clerk of
the Town of Guernsey, being marked and designated as the 2018 edition of the
International Plumbing Code, including appendix E and F as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code for
the Town of Guernsey in the State of Wyoming; for the control of new buildings
and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Plumbing Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section 7-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-009, 1-15-2013; amd.
Ord. 2019-001, 4-2-2019)
7-3-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert:
Town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
Section 106.6.2 Insert:
Fee schedule available at the Guernsey Town Hall.
Section 106.6.3 Insert:
Fees refundable on a case-by-case basis only.
Section 108.4 Insert:
Misdemeanor, $750.00, 30 days.
Section 108.5 Insert:
$750.00 and $1,000.00.
Section 305.6 Insert:
49 inches in both locations.
Section 904.1 Insert:
18 inches where required.
   (Ord. 2012-009, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Adopted
7-4-2: Amendments
7-4-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Clerk of
the Town of Guernsey, being marked and designated as the 2018 edition of the
International Mechanical Code, including appendix A as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code for
the Town of Guernsey in the State of Wyoming; for the control of new buildings
and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
7-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-008, 1-15-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-001, 4-2-2019)
7-4-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert:
   Town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
Section 106.5.2 Insert:
   Fee schedule available at the Guernsey Town Hall.
Section 106.5.3 Insert:
   Fees refundable on a case-by-case basis only.
Section 108.4 Insert:
   Misdemeanor, $750.00, 30 days.
Section 108.5 Insert:
   $750.00 and $1000.00.
   (Ord. 2012-008, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Adopted
7-5-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Clerk of
the Town of Guernsey, being marked and designated as the 2017 edition of the
National Electrical Code, be and is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code for
the Town of Guernsey in the State of Wyoming; for the control of new electrical
installation in buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Electrical Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter. (Ord. 2012-007, 1-15-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-001,
4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-6-1: Adopted
7-6-2: Amendments
7-6-3: Rate Schedule
7-6-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Clerk of
the Town of Guernsey, being marked and designated as the 2018 edition of the
International Building Code, including appendix: (B) board of appeals, (E)
supplementary accessibility requirements, (H) signs, (I) patio covers, and (J)
grading, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby
adopted as the Building Code for the Town of Guernsey in the State of Wyoming;
for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
7-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-006, 1-15-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-001, 4-2-2019)
7-6-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert:
   Town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
Section 3409.2 Insert:
Sixty (60) days after the approval and publishing of this ordinance.
   (Ord. 2012-006, 1-15-2013)
7-6-3: RATE SCHEDULE:
The rate schedule used to determine the cost of the building permit shall be
kept on file at the Clerk's Office at the Guernsey Town Hall. This rate may be
periodically reviewed and changed as required. (Ord. 2012-006, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 7
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-7-1: Adopted
7-7-2: Amendments
7-7-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk of Guernsey, Wyoming, being marked and designated as the International
Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Existing Building Code of the Town of
Guernsey, State of Wyoming for regulating and governing the repair, alteration,
change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings, including
historic buildings, as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Existing Building Code on
file in the office of the Town of Guernsey are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
7-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-010, 1-15-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-001, 4-2-2019)
7-7-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert:
Town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
(Ord. 2012-010, 1-15-2013)
CHAPTER 8
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
7-8-1: Adopted
7-8-2: Amendments
7-8-1: ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk of Guernsey, Wyoming, being marked and designated as the International
Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be
and is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the Town of Guernsey, State of
Wyoming for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas fired appliances
as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code on file in the office of the Town of
Guernsey are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any, prescribed in section
7-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-011, 1-15-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-001, 4-2-2019)
7-8-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert:
Town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
Section 106.6.2 Insert:
Fee schedule available at the Guernsey Town Hall.
Section 106.6.3 Insert:
Fees refundable on a case-by-case basis only.
Section 108.4 Insert:
Misdemeanor, $750.00, 30 days.
Section 108.5 Insert:
$750.00 and $1,000.00
(Ord. 2012-011, 1-15-2013)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Authority Of Town To Provide Services
8-1-2: Furnishing Services By Anyone Other Than Town Or Franchised Distributor
8-1-3: Purchasing Services From Anyone Not Franchised
8-1-4: Right Of Town To Acquire Property Of Disfranchised Service
8-1-5: Deposits For Utility Service
8-1-1: AUTHORITY OF TOWN TO PROVIDE SERVICES 1 :
It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the town to preempt the
exclusive power and authority to provide, furnish and distribute unto the
citizens and occupants of the town and residing in or maintaining a place of
business within the corporate limits of the town, all electrical power, all
natural gas service, water service, television service, radio service,
telephone and telegraph service, transportation and other utility services used
by the citizens of the town, required by the citizens or subsequently furnished
to the citizens, now or in the future; except such services that shall be
provided by persons who have been granted a franchise from the town. (1987 Code
§ 12-1)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103.
8-1-2: FURNISHING OF SERVICES BY ANYONE OTHER THAN TOWN OR FRANCHISED
DISTRIBUTOR:
No person shall sell, provide, distribute or otherwise furnish electrical
power, natural gas service, telephone service, telegraph service, water for
domestic use and service, radio service, television service or other public
utility service within the incorporated limits of the town unless such person
or public utility shall have first been granted a franchise and authority
therefor to so do by the governing body. (1987 Code § 12-2)
8-1-3: PURCHASING SERVICES FROM ANYONE NOT FRANCHISED:
No person shall purchase, obtain, receive, use or consume any electrical power,
any natural gas, telephone service, telegraph service, water for domestic use
and service, radio service, television service or other public utility service
within the corporate limits of the town, from any source other than the town or
a person or company who shall have first been granted a franchise and authority
to so furnish such service by the town. (1987 Code § 12-3)
8-1-4: RIGHT OF TOWN TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY OF DISFRANCHISED SERVICE 1 :
The town shall have the right to acquire by eminent domain all poles, lines,
fixtures, pipelines, mains, and appurtenances of whatever nature of any
electric company, telegraph company, telephone company, gas company, water
company, television distributing company, radio distributing company,
transportation company and of any other public utility company, association or
corporation, so providing or undertaking to provide and furnish any of such
public utility services within the corporate limits of the town when such
public utility, company, association, corporation or otherwise is not then and
there the holder of a franchise granted by the town to so provide such
services. (1987 Code § 12-4)
 
Notes
1 1. For authority of town to exercise power of eminent domain, see WS § 15-1-
  103.
8-1-5: DEPOSITS FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   Established: The governing body shall from time to time establish the
dollar amount which shall be assessed and collected by the town, prior to the
time any utility services are provided by the town, as a deposit for each
commercial service and for each residential service; such deposit shall be
retained by the town until such time as all charges for utilities are paid in
full.
   B.   Return Of Deposit: All deposits shall be returned upon termination of
all utility service and payment of all charges due the town for anything
whatsoever. In the event any amounts are due and owing the town for anything
whatsoever, the charges shall first be deducted from any deposit so held by the
town and the balance refunded to the consumer. (1987 Code § 12-5)
CHAPTER 2
FEES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Established
8-2-2: Monthly Billing
8-2-3: Fees For Electrical And Plumbing Inspections
8-2-4: Connection Fees For Electrical Systems And Sewer Systems
8-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Established By Ordinance: Charges for utility services provided by the
town shall be reviewed in the month of May and shall be set each year during
the budget process by ordinance.
   B.   Copy On File: A copy of each ordinance establishing such charges shall
be maintained on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer where it shall
be available for inspection by the public during the normal office hours. (Ord.
95-003, 3-28-1995)
8-2-2: MONTHLY BILLING:
   A.   All charges for water, sanitation, sewer and electrical services and
all related charges shall be due and payable at the office of the Town Clerk on
the twentieth day of each month following use. Any account not paid in full by
the twenty-fifth day of each month shall be deemed delinquent and will be
assessed a late fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00), in addition, the Town
shall have the right to terminate all services until such time as all
delinquent accounts are paid in full. In the event of termination of any
services the user shall pay the total outstanding balance on the account in
addition to a re-connection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Any deposit on
account will be applied to the outstanding balance and an additional deposit of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) will be required before any services are resumed.
Electric meter may be pulled without further notice if delinquencies occur.
   B.   If your check is returned as a delinquency payment, the Town will
consider the account unpaid and your services will be disconnected without
further notice. A return check fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) must be paid
in addition to the unpaid balance before your services can be restored. (Ord.
08-07-002, 7-10-2007, eff. 8-1-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-009, 11-19-2019)
8-2-3: FEES FOR ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING INSPECTIONS:
The governing body shall from time to time establish the fee to be charged for
electrical inspection and plumbing inspection for each domestic residence and
for every other type of construction which shall be paid to the town at the
time a building permit is secured for any construction, remodeling or other
activity for which any electrical and plumbing inspection is required. (1987
Code § 12-8)
8-2-4: CONNECTION FEES FOR ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Enumerated:
      1.   Single-Phase Service: The following fees shall be paid for each
connection of the electrical service system of the town when the connection is
for single-phase service or for connection to the sewer system of the town:
         a.   Residential Use: An amount set by the governing body from time to
time or the actual costs of material, equipment and labor, whichever is
greater, for each residential service.
         b.   Other Than Residential: An amount set by the governing body from
time to time or the actual cost of materials, equipment and labor, whichever is
greater, for any electrical or sewer system connection for any other type of
usage not otherwise specified herein.
      2.   3-Phase Service: An amount set by the governing body from time to
time plus an amount equal to the difference in total cost of construction
between single-phase electrical service for each connection to the electrical
service system of the town for 3-phase electrical service. (1987 Code § 12-9)
   B.   When Payable: All fees shall be paid prior to the time any connection
is made to the service systems and, in the event of new construction where the
facilities are not present, all fees shall be paid prior to the commencement of
any construction of the facilities which will be required to provide the
services. (1987 Code § 12-10)
   C.   Electrical Services For Subdivisions:
      1.   Due Prior To Commencement Of Construction: All connection fees for
electrical services to be provided for all lots, tracts or other parcels in
subdivisions shall be paid prior to the commencement of any construction of the
facilities which will be required to provide the service.
      2.   Collateral In Lieu Of Payment: In lieu of payment of all electrical
service connection fees in advance of any construction, a subdivider may
provide collateral acceptable to the town council guaranteeing payment of the
electrical service connection fees for all lots, tracts or other parcels in the
entire subdivision.
      3.   Option Of Town: The town council shall have the option of demanding
payment in full in advance of construction or of accepting a guarantee in lieu
thereof. (1987 Code § 12-11)
   D.   Sewer Connections: Connections to the sewer service system shall
include connections to the primary sewer service system of the town and
connections to all feeder lines connected thereto, regardless of ownership of
the lines. (1987 Code § 12-12)
   E.   Issuance Of Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued by the
building inspector until all fees assessed pursuant to subsection B of this
section are fully paid or a guarantee for such payment is approved and accepted
by the town council. (1987 Code § 12-13)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICITY 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Permit Required; Inspection
8-3-2: Electrician Required; Exception
8-3-3: Temporary Service
8-3-4: Access For Inspections
8-3-5: Poles And Wires
8-3-6: Installations
8-3-7: Responsibility For Service
8-3-8: Unlawful Connection
 
Notes
1 1. For authority of town to provide and regulate electrical power, see WS §§
  15-1-103, 15-7-101, and 15-7-201 et seq.
8-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A.   Required: No person shall make any connection to the town electrical
system, construct or install any electrical wiring in any building or structure
or conduct any electrical work in any addition to any building or structure
without first obtaining a permit to do so.
   B.   Inspection And Approval: No connection shall be made to the town
electrical system without prior inspection and approval by the electrical
inspector. (1987 Code § 12-14)
8-3-2: ELECTRICIAN REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
No person, except an licensed electrician, shall construct, repair, install or
interfere with, in any manner, any electrical wiring or apparatus in the town
except on or within property owned or controlled by the person so doing the
construction, repair or installation. (1987 Code § 12-15)
8-3-3: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
Any person desiring temporary service during construction of any building shall
pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) or the cost of equipment and labor,
whichever is greater, upon application for such service. The town shall provide
all material for any temporary connection. (1987 Code § 12-16)
8-3-4: ACCESS FOR INSPECTIONS:
An agent of the town shall have reasonable access to all buildings and other
structures at reasonable times for the purpose of determining the amount of
electricity consumed and for the inspection of all electrical wiring,
connections and installations. No person shall deny any authorized agent of the
town access for any reasonable inspection. (1987 Code § 12-17)
8-3-5: POLES AND WIRES:
The town shall have the power and supervision over the placing, erecting and
wiring of all electrical poles and wires in the town. No pole or wire shall be
placed so as to create any unsafe or hazardous condition. (1987 Code § 12-18)
8-3-6: INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Meters; Electrical Disconnect: All consumers shall install a meter
socket furnished by the town at a location prescribed by the town and shall
install an electrical disconnect on the outside of all buildings. The town
shall make all connections from the transformer to the outside disconnect. All
multiple-family dwellings shall have all meters located in a central area and
each meter shall be equipped with a separate disconnect.
   B.   Conduit: All electrical service installed for buildings, except
buildings used for residential purposes or private garages, located within the
fire limits of the town shall be in approved steel conduit, equipped at outer
end with approved service head or conduit fitting, and extending, without
outlet or junction box, into service cabinets of approved steel construction.
   C.   Cabinets: All cabinets shall be located inside the walls of the
building in the nearest accessible place to the point where the wires enter the
building. Cabinets shall be arranged so that the handle of any service switch
is not more than seven feet (7') above a permanent floor. All conduit and
cabinets shall be securely and firmly bonded and grounded. (1987 Code § 12-19)
8-3-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR SERVICE:
The town shall control and be responsible for all service to the outside
disconnect and the consumer shall be responsible for all service thereafter.
(1987 Code § 12-20)
8-3-8: UNLAWFUL CONNECTION:
   A.   Connection Or Change Without Consent: No person shall connect or change
any wire, other instrument, device or contrivance which transmits or supplies
or is intended to transmit or supply electricity to any house, mobile home,
store or other building, without the express knowledge and consent of the
electrical inspector of the town or his authorized agent.
   B.   Bypassing Meter: No person shall connect or change any wire, other
instrument, device or contrivance with any wire transmitting or supplying or
intended to transmit or supply electricity to any house, mobile home, store or
other building, in such a manner as to transmit or supply any electricity to
any house, mobile home, store or other building around or without passing
through the meter provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity passing through it without the knowledge or consent of the
electrical inspector or his authorized agent.
   C.   Alter, Interfere, Or Obstruct Meter: No person shall wilfully injure,
alter or interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of any meter
measuring electricity passing through it. (1987 Code § 12-21)
CHAPTER 4
WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Water And Sewer Commissioner
8-4-2: Water
8-4-2-1: Users Located Outside Of Corporate Limits
8-4-2-2: Permit For Connection
8-4-2-3: Water Line Installation Fees
8-4-2-4: Payment Of Fees
8-4-2-5: Responsibility For Connection
8-4-3: Sewer
8-4-3-1: Permit For Connection
8-4-3-2: Connection
8-4-3-3: Treatment And Disposal Of Harmful Wastes
8-4-3-4: Pretreatment
8-4-3-5: Interceptors
8-4-1: WATER AND SEWER COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of water and sewer
commissioner. (1987 Code § 12-22)
   B.   Appointment: The water and sewer commissioner shall be appointed by the
town council. (1987 Code § 12-22; amd. Ord. 09-01-013, 10-1-2013)
   C.   Qualifications: The water and sewer commissioner shall have such
experience as shall be necessary for the faithful performance of the duties of
his office. (1987 Code § 12-22)
   D.   Duties: The water and sewer commissioner shall be the superintendent of
sewers; and as such superintendent, he shall have charge and management of the
sewerage system of the town, and all property belonging or pertaining thereto,
and shall see that the system is kept properly cleaned and in good working
order and repair. He shall perform all such duties in connection with such
system as shall be required of him by the town council. (1987 Code § 12-23)
8-4-2: WATER 1 :
All applicable buildings and entities will connect to municipal water systems.
(Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 15-1-103, 41-14-101 et seq.
8-4-2-1: USERS LOCATED OUTSIDE OF CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   Water Rates: Each water user residing outside the corporate limits of
the town using water furnished through the mains of the town or using water
supplied by the town shall pay an amount which the governing body shall
establish from time to time. (1987 Code § 12-24)
   B.   Implied Agreement: All users of water from the town residing outside
the corporate limits shall be deemed to have subscribed and agreed to all
provisions of this chapter applicable to water usage. (1987 Code § 12-25)
8-4-2-2: PERMIT FOR CONNECTION:
   A.   Required: No person shall tap or connect to any part of the water
system of the town or use any water therefrom without first obtaining a permit
to do so from the town. (1987 Code § 12-26)
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to make a connection to the water
system or to use water therefrom shall make written application to the town for
a permit. The application for a permit to make any connection to the water
system shall state the name of the person to whom the permit is to be issued,
the size of the tap, the location thereof, the premises upon which the water is
to be used and the purpose for which the water is to be used. All permits
issued shall state the name of the person to whom the permit is issued, the
date of the permit, the size of the tap, the premises upon which the water is
to be used and the purpose for which the water is to be used. (1987 Code § 12-
27)
8-4-2-3: WATER LINE INSTALLATION FEES:
   A.   One Inch Line: There shall be assessed and collected a water meter
installation fee in an amount to be determined from time to time by resolution
of the town council for each one inch (1") water line connected to the main
water distribution line of the town.
   B.   Three-Fourths Inch Line: There shall be assessed and collected a water
meter installation fee in an amount to be determined from time to time by
resolution of the town council for each three-fourths inch (3/4") water line
connected to the main water distribution line of the town.
   C.   Larger Than One Inch: For any water meter installation of a meter
larger than one inch (1"), there shall be assessed and collected a fee equal to
the actual cost of the materials and labor for any water meter larger than one
inch (1") connected to the main water distribution line of the town. (1987 Code
§ 12-28; amd. 2005 Code)
8-4-2-4: PAYMENT OF FEES:
   A.   All charges relative to connection to the town water system shall be
paid to the town when the application for the connection permit is made.
   B.   All charges shall be paid prior to the actual connection of the water
line and the installation of the meter to the main water distribution system of
the town. (1987 Code § 12-29)
8-4-2-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONNECTION:
All connections to the main water system of the town and all meter
installations shall be made by a person duly employed by the town or under a
town employee's supervision. (1987 Code § 12-30)
8-4-3: SEWER 1 :
All applicable buildings and entities will connect to municipal sewer systems.
(Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. For authority of town to establish and regulate sewers, see WS § 15-1-103.
8-4-3-1: PERMIT FOR CONNECTION:
   A.   Required: No person shall open or uncover any public sewer, or lay or
cause to be laid in any public street, alley, highway or upon any private
property any sewer line without first obtaining a permit to do so from the
town. (1987 Code § 12-31)
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to open or uncover any public sewer,
or lay or cause to be laid in any public street, alley, highway or upon any
private property any sewer line or drainage pipes, shall make application to
the town clerk-treasurer for a permit to do so. Such application shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant or his agent, shall state the name of the
individual who it is desired shall do such work and shall be accompanied by a
plan showing the course of the drain and the size and location of any branches,
fixtures and traps to be connected therewith. If the drain is to be connected
with a sewer belonging to any person other than the town, the applicant must
file a written consent of the owner of such sewer to be connected with. Upon
approval of the applicant by the water and sewer commissioner the town clerk-
treasurer shall issue a permit. All drainage pipes shall be laid upon line and
grade required by the water and sewer commissioner. All work done under any
permit shall be by a licensed plumber and shall be under the supervision of the
water and sewer commissioner. (1987 Code § 12-32)
8-4-3-2: CONNECTION:
No person except one employed by the town shall connect any pipes with any
sewer line of the town or any lateral therefrom. (1987 Code § 12-33)
8-4-3-3: TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL OF HARMFUL WASTES:
   A.   Public Sewer System: Wastes detrimental to the public sewer system or
detrimental to the functioning of the sewage treatment plant shall be treated
and disposed of as found necessary and directed by the governing body or other
authority having jurisdiction.
   B.   Surface Or Subsurface Waters: Sewage or other waste from a plumbing
system which may be deleterious to surface or subsurface waters shall not be
discharged into the ground or into any waterway unless it has first been
rendered innocuous through subjection to some acceptable form of treatment.
(1987 Code § 12-34)
8-4-3-4: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Pretreatment Required: Chemical or industrial liquid wastes which are
likely to damage or increase maintenance costs of the sanitary sewer system,
detrimentally affect sewage treatment or contaminate surface or subsurface
water shall be pretreated to render them innocuous prior to discharge into a
drainage system.
   B.   Adequate Piping: Piping conveying industrial, chemical or process
wastes from their point of origin to sewer connected pretreatment facilities
shall be of such material and design as to adequately perform its intended
function. (1987 Code § 12-35)
8-4-3-5: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   When Required: Interceptors (including grease, oil and sand
interceptors, etc.) shall be provided when, in the judgment of the governing
body or other authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease, flammable wastes, sand, solids, acid or alkaline
substances or other ingredients harmful to the building drainage system, the
public or private sewage disposal system. (1987 Code § 12-36)
   B.   Auto Wash Racks: Every private or public wash rack and/or floor or slab
used for cleaning machinery or machine parts shall be adequately protected
against storm or surface water and shall drain or discharge into a sand and
grease interceptor of an approved design. (1987 Code § 12-37)
   C.   Establishments Requiring Grease Interceptors: When waste pretreatment
is required, an approved type grease interceptor shall be installed in the
waste line leading from sinks, drains and other fixtures or equipment in the
following establishments: restaurants, cafes, lunch counters, cafeterias, bars
and clubs, hotels, hospitals, sanitarium, factory or school kitchens, or other
establishments where grease may be introduced into the drainage or sewerage
system in quantities that can effect line stoppage or hinder sewage treatment.
(1987 Code § 12-38)
CHAPTER 5
NATURAL GAS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Creation Of Guernsey Natural Gas Department
8-5-2: Award Of Franchise; Ordinances
8-5-3: Financing And Contracting Authority
8-5-4: Facilities
8-5-1: CREATION OF GUERNSEY NATURAL GAS DEPARTMENT:
The town of Guernsey hereby creates the Guernsey natural gas department (GNGD)
under the direct control of the governing body of Guernsey, including
management, operation, maintenance, extension, improvement, metering, and
monthly service charges necessary to produce net revenue sufficient to pay
outstanding debts of GNGD and interest on said debts and to accumulate revenue
funds for expansion and continued operating costs of said department including,
but not limited to personnel, supplies, maintenance, and administration. (Ord.
96-3-004, 3-26-1996)
8-5-2: AWARD OF FRANCHISE; ORDINANCES:
   A.   Issuance Of Franchise: The town is authorized to issue such municipal
franchises as may be necessary to GNGD or others to allow its operation within
the boundaries of the town. Such franchise shall be nonexclusive and shall be
commensurate with existing franchises for the same or similar services.
   B.   Adoption And Enforcement Of Ordinances: The town shall, from time to
time, adopt and enforce any and all necessary ordinances to protect GNGD and
property under the control of GNGD. (Ord. 96-3-004, 3-26-1996)
8-5-3: FINANCING AND CONTRACTING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Establish Budget Account: The town is authorized to establish a budget
account for the Guernsey natural gas department (GNGD); to collect revenues to
the credit of said account; to fund said account as other departments are
funded; to make assessments and to issue bonds for capital improvement as may
be deemed necessary to the services to be provided by GNGD.
   B.   Cooperative Or Joint Powers Arrangements: The town may enter into any
cooperative or joint powers arrangements with other qualifying governmental
entities or local governments as defined by Wyoming Statutes as it deems
necessary and economically beneficial for construction of joint facilities and
pipelines; purchase of real estate or natural gas supplies or reserves,
administration, or any other purpose deemed necessary to the establishment and
operations of GNGD.
   C.   Contracts, Options, Leases And Agreements: The town is authorized to
enter into such contracts, options, leases, pooling, utilizing and operating
agreements or such other agreements, subject to statutory requirements, as may
be necessary to the procuring, transporting, and distributing of natural gas to
its consumers; engineering studies and reports; rates studies, bond issues,
construction contracts, management and/or distribution contracts, and other
matters necessary for the operations of GNGD. The town is authorized to enter
into purchase agreements for the purchase of real and/or personal property as
deemed necessary to the purposes of the GNGD, reserving however, its right to
condemn property. (Ord. 96-3-004, 3-26-1996)
8-5-4: FACILITIES:
The town is authorized to construct, purchase, lease, or extend propane, butane
or natural gas pipelines for transportation to the town limits from place of
origin or purchase and distribution lines and appurtenant equipment within the
town for service to customers. (Ord. 96-3-004, 3-26-1996)
CHAPTER 6
PRIVATE WELLS AND INDIVIDUAL SEWER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Water Wells Prohibited; Exceptions
8-6-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-6-1: WATER WELLS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any individual, corporation or government entity other
than the town to drill and develop a water well within the boundaries of the
town. (Ord. 01-07-002, 8-7-2001)
8-6-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Prohibited Deposits: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privy, Privy Vault, Septic Tank Or Cesspool Prohibited: Except as
hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection Required: The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the town and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the town, is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within thirty (30) days after the date of official notice to do so;
provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') of the
property line. (Ord. 01-07-002, 8-7-2001)
CHAPTER 7
BULK WATER RATES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definitions
8-7-2: Bulk Water Rates And Fees
8-7-3: Penalty For Violation
8-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
BULK WATER:     Water intended for non-potable use and transported by bulk
                tank.
LARGE QUANTITY: Quantity of one thousand (1,000) gallons or more per purchase
                and purchased more than twice per calendar month.
                Quantity of less than one thousand (1,000) gallons per purchase
SMALL QUANTITY: and purchased no more than twice per calendar month. (Ord. 08-
                11-001, 12-18-2007; amd. Ord. 2020- 006, 10-20-2020)
 
8-7-2: BULK WATER RATES AND FEES:
   A.   For large quantity purchases, water may be purchased in bulk from the
town for a minimum fee of fifty dollars ($50) after five thousand gallons has
been purchased water will be charged at ten dollars ($10.00) per one thousand
(1,000) gallons for users not residing within Platte County and eight dollars
and fifty cents ($8.50) per one thousand (1,000) gallons for users residing or
doing business within Platte County. Amounts purchased that fall between one
thousand (1,000) gallon increments shall be charged at the next one thousand
(1,000) gallon increment. Prerequisites for purchasing bulk water are that the
purchaser must first obtain a permit from the Water Superintendent by paying a
permit fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), paying a four hundred dollar
($400.00) deposit and establishing a billing account with the town of Guernsey.
The issued permit must be in the physical possession of the bulk tank operator/
driver. Further, all bulk tank operators must utilize a backflow prevention
device or open-air spout with a minimum clearance of three (3) inches. All
metering devices shall be furnished by and installed at a location specified by
the town of Guernsey.
   B.   For small quantity purchases of bulk water, the Water Superintendent
may approve the purchase for a fixed rate of not less than sixty-five hundreth
($0.0065) cents per gallon and no meter will be required. The Water
Superintendent must be notified, and an employee of the town of Guernsey must
be present at the time water is pumped. A backflow prevention device or an
open-air spout with a minimum clearance of three (3) inches is required.
   C.   Damage to hydrants and/or other town property resulting during any bulk
water purchase shall be the responsibility of the bulk water purchaser. (Ord.
08-11-001, 12-18-2007; amd. Ord. 2020-006, 10-20-2020)
8-7-3: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be charged with a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus costs. Violation of this chapter shall be
deemed a separate offense on each day that a violation shall occur. (Ord. 08-
11-001, 12-18-2007; amd. Ord. 2020-006, 10-20-2020)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND AUTHORITY
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Purpose And Intent
9-1-4: Applicability
9-1-5: Subdividing
9-1-6: Exemptions
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the GUERNSEY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
2003 Wyoming Statutes, title 15, chapter 1, article 5. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-
2004)
9-1-3: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of these regulations is to provide for the harmonious
development of the community; to provide for the proper location and width of
streets, building lines, open spaces, safety and recreational facilities,
utilities, drainage, and for the avoidance of congestion of population through
requirements of minimum lot width, depth and area and the compatibility of
design; to require and fix the extent to which and the manner in which streets
shall be graded and improved, and water, sewers, drainage, and other physical
improvements shall be installed; and to provide for and secure to the governing
body the actual construction of such physical improvements. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-
4-2004)
9-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
This title applies to the owners of any land located within the jurisdiction of
this title. No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located within
the town limits, except in conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord.
04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-1-5: SUBDIVIDING:
A plat is required when subdividing land into three (3) or more lots, blocks,
tracts or parcels, for the purpose of laying out any subdivisions, suburban
lots, building lots, tracts or parcels, or any owner of any land establishing
any street, alley, park or other property intended for public use or for the
use of purchasers or owners of lots, tracts or parcels of land fronting thereon
or adjacent thereto. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-1-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The regulations in this title shall not apply in the following instances: (Ord.
04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
   A.   A change in the boundary between adjoining lands which does not create
an additional lot, and also as long as said change in the boundary does not
result in the area of either of said adjoining lands to be less than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet; (Ord. 09-03-013, 10-1-2013)
   B.   Land used for street or railroad right of way, a drainage easement or
other public utility subject to local, state or federal regulations, where no
new street or easement of access is involved;
   C.   Whenever any lot, parcel or tract of land located within the area
governed by this title has been subdivided, resubdivided or replotted prior to
the adoption of this title;
   D.   Any transfer by operation of law. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: General Definitions
9-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Definitions for the interpretation of this title are as set out in this
chapter:
   ALLEY: A public or private right of way which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property.
   BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
streets, streams, railroad rights of way or parks, etc., or a combination
thereof.
   COLLECTOR STREET: Any street designed primarily for the purpose of gathering
traffic from local or residential streets and carrying it to the major street
system.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DESIGN: The location of streets, alignment of streets, grades and widths of
streets, alignment of easements, grades and widths of easements, alignments and
rights of way for drainage and sanitary sewers, and the designation of minimum
lot area, width and length.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons for the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER: Registered professional engineer in the state of Wyoming
(hereinafter referred to as "engineer").
   FINAL PLAT: The final plan or map prepared in accordance with the provisions
of this title and sent to the council through the commission for approval. If
approved, the final plat shall be placed on record in the office of the
register of deeds in the county in which any part of the subdivision is
located.
   IMPROVEMENTS: Street work and utilities that are to be installed or agreed
to be installed by the subdivider on the land to be used for public or private
use of the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and
drainage needs, as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the
final map or filing of the record of the survey map thereof.
   LOT: A portion of land separated from other portions of land by description
in a subdivision or other parcel of land, intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership or for development.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE: A heavy traffic street, highway or roadway designated as
such on the official major street plan.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS OR FRONTAGE ROADS: A minor street which is generally
parallel to or adjacent to a major traffic thoroughfare, highway or railroad
right of way and provides access to abutting properties.
   MASTER PLAN: A comprehensive plan prepared by the planning and zoning
commission and adopted by the town council which indicates the general
locations recommended for the various functional classes of public works,
places and structures and for the general physical development of the town and
includes any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to
such plan or part thereof.
   OFFICIAL MAP: The map established by the town council showing the streets,
highways and parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established by law and any
amendments thereto adopted by the town council or additions thereto resulting
from the approval of subdivision plats by the town council and the subsequent
filing of such approved plats.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way dedicated to public use which cuts across a
block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The appointed board responsible for making
recommendations for short and long range planning.
   PLANNING AREA: That area on a map prepared and maintained for or by the
planning and zoning commission describing the planning area limits.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map made for the purpose of showing the design of a
proposed subdivision and the existing conditions in and around it for the
consideration of the planning and zoning commission and town council. This map
need not be based on an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
   REPLAT: The platting of a parcel of land within the town limits in a manner
different from the original recorded final plat on file in the office of the
county clerk. No preliminary plat shall be required when the replat involves
only minor changes to the lot line configuration unless a new preliminary plat
is requested by the planning and zoning commission or the town council.
   SECRETARY: The secretary of the planning and zoning commission.
   SETBACK LINE OR BUILDING LINE: A line on a plat generally parallel to the
street right of way, indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures
may not be erected or altered except as otherwise provided in the zoning
regulations.
   STREET: A right of way dedicated to public use or a private right of way
serving more than one ownership, which provides principal vehicular access to
adjacent properties, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, or however otherwise
designated.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right
of way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDE: The act of creating a subdivision.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person who, under the requirements of this title, causes
land to be divided into a subdivision for himself or for others.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of a tract or parcel of land into three (3) or
more lots or parcels for the purpose of selling or developing.
   SURVEYOR: Registered professional land surveyor in the state of Wyoming
(hereinafter referred to as "surveyor").
   TOWN COUNCIL: The elected governing body of Guernsey, Wyoming.
   TOWN ENGINEER: Registered professional engineer in the state of Wyoming
(hereinafter referred to as "town engineer") either under contract to the town
or advising the town. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 09-04-
013, 10-1-2013)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
9-3-1: Deed Restrictions
9-3-2: Preapplication
9-3-3: Necessary Approvals
9-3-4: Notice Of Hearing
9-3-5: Utility Easements And Street Improvements For New Annexations And
Subdivisions
9-3-6: Provision Of Utilities To Improvement
9-3-7: Permits
9-3-1: DEED RESTRICTIONS:
The planning and zoning commission shall have the right to confer with the
subdivider regarding the type and character of development that will be
permitted in the subdivision, and may require that certain minimum regulations
regarding this matter be incorporated in the deed restrictions. Such
regulations shall be intended to protect the character and value of the
surrounding development of the property which is being subdivided. (Ord. 04-01-
001, 5-4-2004)
9-3-2: PREAPPLICATION:
Prior to the filing of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall contact the
town engineer, the official authorized in administering the zoning regulations
and other administrative personnel to determine:
   A.   Procedure for filing plats;
   B.   Availability of public sewer and water;
   C.   Master plan requirements for major streets, land use, parks, schools
and public open spaces;
   D.   Zoning requirements for the property in question and adjacent
properties. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-3-3: NECESSARY APPROVALS:
   A.   Required Signatures: From and after the effective date hereof, before
any preliminary plat can be considered by the planning and zoning commission,
it must first contain the signatures and comments, if any, of the following:
      1.   The town engineer;
      2.   The town superintendent;
      3.   The designated representative of the applicable gas company;
      4.   The designated representative of the applicable telephone company;
      5.   The designated representative of the applicable cable television
company; and
      6.   Fire department.
   B.   Submission To Planning And Zoning Commission, Town Council: All plans,
plats or replats of land laid out in building lots, and the streets, alleys or
other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public use, or for the
use of purchasers or owners of the lots fronting thereon or adjacent thereto,
shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for its consideration,
and the planning and zoning commission's recommendation shall be submitted to
the town council for their official consideration and action. (Ord. 04-01-001,
5-4-2004)
9-3-4: NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Notice To Subdivider: The planning and zoning commission shall notify
the subdivider under this title of the time and place of a hearing before the
planning and zoning commission on the preliminary plat not less than thirty
(30) days before the date fixed for the hearing.
   B.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners, Utility Offices And Public School
District: Notice of the hearing, in the form of a certified letter with receipt
verification required, shall be mailed to the owners of land within one hundred
forty feet (140') of the area proposed to be platted, as shown on the
preliminary subdivision plan. Notice of the hearing regarding the proposed
subdivision shall also be given to public or private utility offices serving
the area and to the public school district.
   C.   Publication: Notice of hearing will also be advertised in the local
paper for two (2) consecutive issues.
   D.   Failure To Contact All Adjoining Landowners: Although the list of
persons notified of the hearing shall be reasonably accurate, failure to
contact all adjoining landowners and utility and school officials shall not
invalidate the hearing procedure. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-3-5: UTILITY EASEMENTS AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS FOR NEW ANNEXATIONS AND
SUBDIVISIONS:
No annexation to the town or subdivision plats or plans shall hereafter be
approved, and no utilities, including electricity, water and sewer, shall be
furnished except those that are presently in existence, unless the following
requirements are first complied with:
   A.   Extensions: The owner of the property shall agree to pay for the
extension of water, electric and sewer lines from the existing system of the
town. Utilities installation must meet town specifications.
   B.   Easement Rights Of Way: The owner shall obtain, at his/her cost, all
rights of way for easements for such utilities along routes prescribed by the
town, unless the town elects to acquire the rights of way or pay the costs
thereof.
   C.   Compliance With Surface Water Drainage Utility Act: No annexation or
subdivision shall be approved by the town until the owner has complied with the
requirements of the state of Wyoming Statutes title 16, chapter 10, article 1,
surface water drainage utility act.
   D.   Right To Reimbursement: Within a five (5) year period if the owner,
having paid for and provided for an extension of a utility over and across
undeveloped areas of the town, or if the town has participated in the costs,
shall have the right to require reimbursement for their actual costs, without
interest, as the unimproved area develops, such cost to be based upon the
actual cost per lineal footage of line adjacent to the area being serviced as a
result of tapping into such utility, and the owner requesting such utility
service from such extension shall be required to pay the same.
   E.   Street Improvements: All unimproved streets shall be paved and provided
with drainage means and curb and gutter, unless required at the time of
annexation or subdivision under subsection B of this section, within one year
after any block area subject to assessment has at least fifty percent (50%) of
its area occupied for business or residence, and all persons owning unimproved
areas between the existing improved roads of the town and the road to be
improved shall be required to provide paving and curb and gutter to fully
connect the newly proposed improvement districts or areas in accordance with
the general assessment provisions provided by statute for forming improvement
districts, all such improvements to be approved by the town of Guernsey.
Provided, however, the town does not have to approve the assessment district
but can require the subdivider to escrow sufficient monies to pay for the
improvements.
   F.   Costs Of Underground Electrical Distribution Lines: The costs of the
underground electrical distribution lines shall be paid by the owner. (Ord. 04-
01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-3-6: PROVISION OF UTILITIES TO IMPROVEMENT:
No building permits shall be issued until satisfactory arrangements have been
made and accepted by the town for providing utilities to the place of such
improvement. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-3-7: PERMITS:
After the date of the adoption of these rules and regulations by the planning
and zoning commission and town council, no permits shall be issued for any
structure that is located upon a lot or subdivision that has not been
subdivided, unless approved in the manner as provided for in this title. This
shall not apply to subdivisions or lots of record which were platted prior to
the adoption of this title. No such plat or replat or dedication or deed of a
street or public way shall be filed with the register of deeds, as provided by
law, until such plat or replat or dedication or deed shall have endorsed upon
it the fact that it has been submitted and approved by the planning and zoning
commission and by the governing body as required by law. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-
2004)
CHAPTER 4
PRELIMINARY PLATS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Submission Of Preliminary Plat
9-4-2: Filing Fee
9-4-3: Number Of Copies
9-4-4: Posting
9-4-5: Required Contents
9-4-6: Review By Utility Representatives
9-4-7: Approval Or Disapproval
9-4-1: SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
After reaching the preliminary conclusions regarding the requirements for the
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat together
with any supplementary information necessary. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-4-2: FILING FEE:
A filing fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall accompany the filing
of each preliminary plat. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-4-3: NUMBER OF COPIES:
The subdivider shall submit eight (8) copies of the preliminary plat and eight
(8) copies of a vicinity map (if not on the preliminary plat). These plans
shall be filed with the town office at least thirty (30) days prior to a
regular planning and zoning commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is
to be considered. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-4-4: POSTING:
At least fifteen (15) days before the preliminary plat is submitted to the
planning and zoning commission, the applicant/subdivider shall post the
property with a sign at least twenty four inches by thirty inches (24" x 30")
with the legend:
   Development Proposal under Consideration
   For information call the Town of Guernsey
   Town Hall
   Telephone: 836-2335
 
The sign shall be placed where it is visible and legible from a public street.
The sign shall remain in place until final action by the town council on the
final plat. This section is not jurisdictional, but the planning and zoning
commission may disapprove any final plat on the grounds that the sign was not
posted. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-4-5: REQUIRED CONTENTS:
Preliminary plats shall contain the following:
   A.   The proposed name of the subdivision. The name shall not duplicate or
too closely resemble the name or names of any existing subdivision.
   B.   The location of the boundary lines of the subdivision and reference to
the section or quarter section lines and north point.
   C.   The names and addresses of the developer, surveyor, landscape
architect, architect or engineer who prepared the plat.
   D.   Scale of the plat, one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
larger.
   E.   Date of preparation.
   F.   Existing conditions:
      1.   Location, width and name of platted streets or other public ways,
railroads and utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces and
permanent buildings within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be
shown on the preliminary plat.
      2.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts or other
underground installations within the proposed subdivision or adjacent thereto,
with pipe size and manholes, grades and location shown.
      3.   Names of adjacent subdivisions together with arrangement of streets
and lots, and owners of adjacent parcels of unsubdivided land shown.
      4.   Topography, unless specifically waived, with contour intervals of
not more than one foot (1') referenced to municipality or USGS datum shown.
Also, the location of watercourses, bridges, wooded areas, lakes, ravines and
such other features as may be pertinent to the subdivision shall be shown.
   G.   The general arrangements of lots and their approximate size.
   H.   Location and width of proposed streets, alleys, pedestrianways and
easements.
   I.   The general plan of sewage disposal, water supply and utilities in
areas where public sewers and/or water are proposed to serve the subdivision.
In other cases, a notation shall be made on the plat indicating type of sewage
disposal and water system proposed.
   J.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches, school
sites or other special uses of land to be considered for reservation for public
use. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-4-6: REVIEW BY UTILITY REPRESENTATIVES:
Upon receipt of a subdivision plat, the planning and zoning commission will
notify the utility representatives who will be allowed ten (10) days to review
the plat and make necessary comments. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-4-7: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action: Action by the planning and
zoning commission shall be conveyed to the subdivider, in writing, within ten
(10) days after the official planning and zoning commission meeting, at which
time the plat was considered. In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider
shall be notified of the reason for such action and what requirements shall be
necessary to meet the approval of the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Town Council Action: Action of the town council at their next scheduled
meeting shall be either approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat after
consideration of the planning and zoning commission's recommendations, or
approval with noted variance and/or changes. Subdivider shall be notified, in
writing, of the council's decision within ten (10) days.
   C.   Approval:
      1.   Authorization To Proceed: The approval of the preliminary plat does
not constitute an acceptance of the subdivision, but is deemed to be an
authorization to proceed with the preparation of the final plat.
      2.   Effective Period: The approval of the preliminary plat shall only be
effective for a period of six (6) months unless an extension is granted by the
planning and zoning commission.
      3.   Resubmission Required: If the final plat has not been submitted for
approval within this specified period, a preliminary plat must be resubmitted
to the planning and zoning commission for approval. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 5
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Submission; Fee
9-5-2: Information
9-5-3: Supplemental Information
9-5-4: Submittal To Town Council
9-5-5: Partial Or Whole Approval
9-5-6: Recorded Plats
9-5-1: SUBMISSION; FEE:
   A.   Submission Required: After approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider shall submit for approval of the planning and zoning commission a
final plat. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
   B.   Accompanying Documentation: The final plat shall be accompanied by a
title certificate approved by the town attorney showing title to those persons
or entities signing the plat, agreements or bonds as may be specified by the
town council in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9-5-3D12 of this
chapter. (Ord. 06-09-001, 10-4-2005)
   C.   Number Of Copies: The original (on mylar, tracing cloth or similar
material, using waterproof ink) and ten (10) copies thereof shall be submitted
to the town office at least fifteen (15) days prior to the planning and zoning
commission public hearing.
   D.   Names And Signatures Of Owners: The names and signatures of the owners
of the property duly acknowledged and notarized shall appear on the original
copies submitted.
   E.   Scale: The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be drawn
at a scale of at least one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger.
The size of the sheet on which such final plat is prepared shall be twenty
inches by thirty six inches (20" x 36"). Title, description and other written
data to be located either right or left. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
   F.   Engineering Plans: Engineering drawings and construction plans prepared
by, or under the direct supervision of, an engineer shall be submitted to the
planning and zoning commission and the town engineer for review and
recommendation to the town council no later than ninety (90) days after
approval of the final plat. Upon review and acceptance of said drawings and
plans by the town council and town engineer, the drawings and plans shall be
signed and sealed by the registered professional engineer who prepared same and
who shall remain responsible for all of the overall design and details. (Ord.
09-06-013, 10-1-2013)
   G.   Final Filing Fee: A filing fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
shall accompany the final plat. (Ord. 06-09-001, 10-4-2005)
9-5-2: INFORMATION:
The final plat shall show and contain the following information:
   A.   Name of subdivision, not to duplicate or too closely resemble the name
of any existing subdivision.
   B.   Location of section, township, range, county and state, including the
descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based on an accurate traverse, giving
angular and linear dimensions which must be mathematically correct. The
allowable error of closing on any portion of the plat shall be one foot (1') in
five thousand (5,000).
   C.   The location of monuments or bench marks shall be shown and described
on the final plat. Location of such monuments shall be shown in reference to
existing official monuments or the nearest established street lines including
the true angles and distances to such reference points or monuments. (Ord. 04-
01-001, 5-4-2004)
   D.   The location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and other
features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet with the length
of radii on all curves, curve central angle, radius length and arc length.
(Ord. 09-07-013, 10-1-2013)
   E.   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks shall be numbered or lettered
clearly in the center of the block.
   F.   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets and alleys to be
dedicated. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
   G.   Boundary lines and description of the boundary lines, with accurate
dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, of any area other than streets and
alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use.
   H.   Name, signature and seal of the surveyor responsible for the
preparation of the final plat. (Ord. 09-07-013, 10-1-2013)
   I.   Scale of the plat (scale to be shown graphically and in feet per inch),
date of preparation and north point.
   J.   Statement dedicating all easements, streets, alleys and all other
public areas not previously dedicated. (Ord. 06-09-001, 10-4-2005)
   K.   Location of curbs, sidewalks, streetlights and fire protection are to
be shown on the final engineering drawing and construction plans and not on the
final plat. (Ord. 09-07-013, 10-1-2013)
   L.   The following certificates, which may be combined where appropriate:
      1.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record, title or interest in the land subdivided, and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the subdivision map.
      2.   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating all
parcels of land shown on the final plat and intended for any public use except
those parcels which are intended for the exclusive use of the lot owners of the
subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants. (Ord. 06-09-001,
10-4-2005)
      3.   A certificate signed by the registered professional land surveyor in
the state of Wyoming responsible for the survey and the preparation of the
final plat. The signature of the registered professional land surveyor shall be
accompanied by his/her seal.
      4.   The acknowledgment of a notary public of all required signatures.
(Ord. 09-07-013, 10-1-2013)
9-5-3: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
The following additional data shall be submitted with the final plat:
   A.   Title Report: A title report by an abstract or a title insurance
company or an attorney's opinion of title, showing the name of the owner of the
land and all other persons who have an interest in, or an encumbrance on, the
plat. The consent of all such persons shall be shown on the plat.
   B.   Taxes: A certificate showing that all taxes and special assessments due
and payable have been paid in full; or, if such taxes have been protested as
provided by law, monies or other sufficient escrows guaranteeing such payment
of taxes in the event the protest is not upheld, may be placed on deposit with
such officials or governing body to meet this requirement.
   C.   Deed Restrictions: A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the
subdivision.
   D.   Extent And Manner Of Physical Improvements: As a condition to the
approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall agree to install and pay for the
following improvements: (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
      1.   Streets: Streets shall be surfaced with concrete, asphaltic
concrete, or materials approved by the town engineer and shall include curb.
      2.   Water: Where a public water supply is proposed to serve the
subdivision, the water lines shall be installed within proper easements or
within the limits of the street and alley rights of way and shall be of a size
approved by the town engineer.
      3.   Sewer: If the subdivision is serviced with a town or community
sewage treatment plant, a sewer system shall be constructed which will provide
service to each lot within the subdivision. The system of lateral sewers shall
collect the sewage within the subdivision and discharge it into a main sewer or
a community disposal system approved by the town engineer, or an approval, in
writing, of the plans and specifications for the sewer system shall be made by
the town engineer. (Ord. 09-08-013, 10-1-2013)
      4.   Electrical: Electrical service to new subdivisions shall be
underground.
      5.   Street Signs: Street signs will be supplied and erected by the
developer. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
      6.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks abutting curbs shall be a minimum of four feet
(4') in width. (Ord. 06-09-001, 10-4-2005)
      7.   Streetlights: Streetlights shall be installed by the developer.
      8.   Other Improvements: If other improvements are required, such as tree
planting, retaining walls, drainage structures, etc., such improvements shall
be made in accordance with the recommendations of the planning and zoning
commission and specifications of the engineer having jurisdiction. (Ord. 04-01-
001, 5-4-2004)
      9.   Perimeter Subdivision Corners, Block Corners, And Lot Corners: All
perimeter subdivision corners, as found or set, shall be at least a three-
fourths inch (3/4") iron bar, two feet (2') long. All block corners shall be
set with three-fourths inch (3/4") iron bars, two feet (2') long. All lot
corners shall be set with five-eighths inch (5/8") iron bars, two feet (2')
long. All corner bars shall be set with affixed caps according to state
requirements. All corners, either found or set, shall be differentiated and
described (material, markings, etc.) of the final plat.
      10.   Final Corners: All final perimeter subdivision corners, as found or
set and as described above, shall be set prior to the approval and acceptance
of the final plat and of the engineering plans by the town. Upon approval and
acceptance of the final plat and of the engineering plans and upon the
completion of the final grading work of the subdivision site and the
installation of street curbs, all block corners, and lot corners, as described
above, shall be set prior to the sale of any lot. Block corners shall be set
one foot (1') below final grade and lot corners shall be set at final grade.
      11.   Bench Marks: A minimum of two (2) bench marks (monuments) shall be
placed in each subdivision, located and installed as required by the engineer
or surveyor. In subdivisions larger than forty (40) acres, one bench mark shall
be installed for each additional twenty (20) acre area. The monument shall be a
three inch (3") brass cap set permanently in concrete, ten inches (10") in
diameter by twenty four inches (24") deep, approved by the engineer or
surveyor. The elevation of the monuments, relative to mean sea level, shall be
identified on each. (Ord. 09-08-013, 10-1-2013)
      12.   Bond For Construction: In lieu of the actual construction of the
physical improvements required, the planning and zoning commission and
governing body may, but is not required to, accept one of the following:
         a.   A bond, approved by the town attorney, guaranteeing construction
of the required improvements within a period of time to be specified and
approved by the town council, with penalty for noncompliance.
         b.   A petition, presented and approved by the governing body properly
executed by the property owners, as provided by law, for the construction by
the governing body of the improvements, to be assessed against the subdivided
property. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-5-4: SUBMITTAL TO TOWN COUNCIL:
After the review of the final plat by the planning and zoning commission, such
final plat together with the recommendations of the planning and zoning
commission shall be transmitted to the town council as required by law for
their review and action. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-5-5: PARTIAL OR WHOLE APPROVAL:
Final plats submitted for approval pursuant to this title, and all amendments
thereto, may include the entire area covered by the preliminary plat, or any
portion of such area as is approved by the town council. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-
2004)
9-5-6: RECORDED PLATS:
Five (5) copies of the recorded plat shall be provided by the subdivider and
submitted to the town clerk for distribution to various public and quasi-public
departments, offices or agencies. (Ord. 09-09-013, 10-1-2013)
CHAPTER 6
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Applicability
9-6-2: Variance
9-6-3: Grievance
9-6-4: Design Criteria
9-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
The design requirements of this chapter shall apply to all subdivisions within
the town limits unless conditions warrant a variance of said requirements.
(Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-6-2: VARIANCE 1 :
The planning and zoning commission, after consulting with other affected town
departments, may recommend variances in the following areas:
   A.   Dead end streets.
   B.   Street intersections.
   C.   Street grades provided that a variance of more than ten percent (10%)
from the specification requires the town council decision.
   D.   Street grades at intersection approaches.
   E.   Lot lines.
   F.   Reversed corner lots.
   G.   Block dimensions. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 7 of this title.
9-6-3: GRIEVANCE:
Any person aggrieved by a variance decision may ask the town council to
reconsider said decision. The town council may uphold, amend, or reverse the
decision at its discretion. At that time, the town council's decision is final.
(Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-6-4: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   Topography: Streets shall bear a logical relationship to topography
and to the location of platted streets in adjacent property.
      2.   Minimum Widths: Minimum street widths shall be as follows:
Classification                    Right Of Way     Roadway Width
                                  Width (In Feet)  (In Feet)
 Major arterial                   100              68
 Collector                        80               52
 Local                            60               46
 Local, parking both street sides 60               40
 Local, parking 1 street side     50               32
 Local, no on street parking      40               24
 
      3.   Marginal Access, When Required: When a subdivision adjoins or
contains an existing or proposed major arterial highway or street on which
traffic volumes and vehicular speeds warrant special safety features, marginal
access streets at least thirty feet (30') in width shall be required.
      4.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets shall not be more than four
hundred feet (400') in length, with a minimum outside radius of fifty feet
(50') at the closed end.
      5.   Intersections: Streets shall intersect at right angles. (Ord. 04-01-
001, 5-4-2004)
      6.   Full Width And Partial Width Streets; Platting: Full width and
partial width streets shall always be platted. (Ord. 09-10-013, 10-1-2013)
      7.   Crown Grade:
         a.   Generally: Street grades shall be more than five-tenths percent
(0.5%) but less than ten percent (10%) for local and collector streets and
alleys and less than six percent (6%) for major arterial streets.
         b.   Intersection Approaches: Streets shall be leveled to a grade of
less than four percent (4%) for a distance of at least one hundred feet (100')
approaching all intersections.
      8.   Street Offsets:
         a.   Streets which are offset at an intersection with collector or
arterial streets shall have a curb to curb offset of no less than two hundred
feet (200').
         b.   Streets which are offset at an intersection with local streets
shall have centerline to centerline offsets of no less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125').
      9.   Naming Streets: When streets are in alignment with existing streets,
the new streets shall be named according to the streets with which they
correspond. Streets which do not fit into an established street naming pattern
shall be named in a manner which will not duplicate or be confused with
existing street names.
   B.   Drainage And Irrigation Ditches: Major drainage ditches and irrigation
ditches shall not be permitted on public streets or highways except to cross
such public street or highway.
   C.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys shall be at least thirty feet (30') in width and open at both
ends in business districts.
      2.   Alleys at least twenty feet (20') in width and opened at both ends
shall be required in all residential districts.
      3.   Where alleys are not required, easements shall be granted or
reserved at least ten feet (10') in width on each side of all rear lot lines
and along side lot lines where necessary for utility installation and
maintenance.
   D.   Lots:
      1.   When Subjected To Flooding: No lots shall be platted in areas
subject to flooding unless adequate flood protection measures are taken.
      2.   Dimensions: Lots shall be at least as large as required in the
minimum standards contained in the setback and zoning ordinance, but in no
event shall any interior lot be less than sixty feet (60') in width nor shall
any corner lot be less than seventy feet (70') in width in residential areas
except for the R-3 zoning district, townhouse developments and planned unit
development, as defined in the zoning regulations.
      3.   Lot Lines: Lot lines shall be at right angles to the street lines or
at right angles to the tangent of the curb of the street line.
      4.   Reversed Corner And Through Lots: Reversed corner lots and through
lots shall not be permitted 1 .
      5.   Frontage Lots: All lots shall front on a public street or highway or
a common area fronting directly on a public street or highway. For the purpose
of this section, "common area" means real property held in common ownership of
all lot owners for the common use and enjoyment of all lots.
   E.   Block Dimensions: Blocks for residential use shall be not less than
three hundred feet (300') in length and not more than nine hundred feet (900')
in length.
   F.   Master Plan: If the master plan of the town contains proposals for
drainage rights of way, school sites, parks, playgrounds or other public tracts
within a proposed subdivision, before approving the subdivision, the town
council, upon recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, may require
that drainage rights of way, school sites, parks, playgrounds or other public
tracts shown on the master plan be shown in locations and sites suitable for
their intended sizes. The town council, upon recommendation of the planning and
zoning commission, may require reservation of the location and extent of
drainage rights of way, school sites, parks, playgrounds or other public tracts
shown on the master plan. Such reservation shall be for a period of two (2)
years after the approval of the final plat or such further time as may be
agreed to by the subdivider. At the end of the two (2) year period or extension
thereof, the town council or school board shall enter into a contract to
purchase or institute condemnation proceedings according to law for such
drainage rights of way, school sites, parks, playgrounds or other public tracts
shown on the master plan; otherwise, the subdivider shall no longer be bound by
the reservation. This provision shall not apply to the streets and roads or
drainage rights of way required for final approval of any plat and deemed
essential to the public welfare.
   G.   Conformance With Town Plans: Streets, street lighting, and utility
rights of way, fire protection and public open spaces shall conform to the
official plans of the town for the extension and location of such public
facilities.
   H.   Communication And Power Lines To Be Underground: All telephone,
television and electrical power lines shall be placed underground, in streets,
alleys or easements in a manner approved by the town engineer. (Ord. 04-01-001,
5-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. Exception by variance, section 9-6-2 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 7
VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS 1
SECTION:
9-7-1: Recommendation Of Planning And Zoning Commission
9-7-2: Required Findings
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-6-2 of this title.
9-7-1: RECOMMENDATION OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
Whenever it is found that the land included in a subdivision plat, presented
for approval, is of such size or shape or is subject to or is affected by
topographical location or conditions, or is to be devoted to such use that full
conformity to the provisions of these regulations is impossible or is
impractical, the planning and zoning commission may recommend to the town
council, by letter of transmittal, that the town council authorize variances or
exceptions to the final plat so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-7-2: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
In recommending such variances or exceptions, the planning and zoning
commission shall find the following:
   A.   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the property;
   B.   The variances or exceptions are necessary for the reasonable and
acceptable development of the property in question;
   C.   The granting of the variances or exceptions will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity in which the
property is situated. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 8
LOT SPLITS
SECTION:
9-8-1: General Intent
9-8-2: Application Procedure
9-8-3: Approval Guidelines
9-8-4: Fees
9-8-1: GENERAL INTENT:
   A.   The intent of this chapter is to provide for the issuance of building
permits on lots divided into not more than two (2) tracts without having to
replat the lot; provided, that the resulting lots shall not again be divided
without replatting.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission may approve or disapprove lot splits
in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-8-2: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Written Application: Requests for lot split approval shall be made by
the owner of the land to the planning and zoning commission. Four (4) copies of
a drawing to scale of the lots involved if there are no structures thereon, or
if structures are located on any part of the lot being split, four (4) copies
of a survey of the lot(s) and the location of the structure(s) thereon,
together with the precise nature, location and dimensions of the split, shall
accompany the application. The application shall be accompanied by the names
and addresses of all persons to receive notices. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
   B.   Notice To Adjacent Landowners; Protests: Written notices by the town
clerk shall be given to all owners of land within the town limits within one
hundred forty feet (140') of the property to be split. Should any of the land
(s) within one hundred forty feet (140') of said property proposed to be split
lie outside of the town limits, the applicant shall provide the town clerk a
current and accurate list of the owners of said land(s). Such owners shall have
ten (10) days from the date of notification to notify the planning and zoning
commission of any protests they may have concerning the lot split. The ten (10)
day waiting period may be waived upon submission to the planning and zoning
commission, in writing, of statements from those to be notified that they have
no objection to the proposed split. (Ord. 09-11-013, 10-1-2013)
9-8-3: APPROVAL GUIDELINES:
Approval or disapproval of lot splits shall be made based on the following
guidelines:
   A.   Approvals: No lot split shall be approved if:
      1.   A new street or alley is needed or proposed;
      2.   A vacation of streets, alleys, setback lines, access control or
easements is required or proposed;
      3.   Such action will result in significant increases in service
requirements, e.g., utilities, schools, traffic control, streets, etc., or will
interfere with maintaining existing service levels, e.g., additional curb cuts,
repaving, etc.;
      4.   There is less street right of way than required by these regulations
or the comprehensive plan unless such dedication can be made by separate
instrument;
      5.   All easement requirements have not been satisfied;
      6.   Such split will result in a tract without direct access to a street;
or (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
      7.   A lot size of less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet will be created.
   B.   Additional Requirements: Along with the recommendation of the planning
and zoning commission, the town council may make such additional requirements
as deemed necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of existing land
development regulations and governing body policy. Requirements may include,
but not be limited to, installation of public facilities, dedication of rights
of way and easements, and submission of covenants for the protection of other
landowners. (Ord. 09-12-013, 10-1-2013)
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendation; Town Council Decision:
The planning and zoning commission shall recommend to the town council either
to approve with or without conditions of the lot split within thirty (30) days
of application. The town council shall, in writing, report their decision to
the applicant. If approved, and after all conditions have been met, the town
council shall sign and furnish a certificate of approval to be affixed to the
lot split survey, and a certified copy thereof shall be filed with the register
of deeds, the official designated to issue the building or occupancy permits,
and a copy shall be furnished to the applicant. (Ord. 04-01-001, 5-4-2004)
9-8-4: FEES:
All costs for lot splits including, but not limited to, application fees,
filing fees, surveyor's fees, title search fees, and area canvas costs, if any,
shall be borne by the property owner of record. No costs for lot splits shall
be borne by the town of Guernsey. (Ord. 09-05-013, 10-1-2013)
TITLE 10
ZONING AND SETBACK REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose And Application
10-1-4: General Permit Requirements
10-1-5: Official Zoning Map
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING AND SETBACK ORDINANCE
OF THE TOWN OF GUERNSEY, WYOMING. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
In pursuance of authority conferred by Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-601 et
seq., as amended, and for the purposes of promoting the health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town of Guernsey, Wyoming. (Ord.
04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-1-3: PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the public health, safety and
welfare. It is not intended by this title to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any
way impair or interfere with the existing provisions or other laws or
ordinances, except those specifically repealed by this title, or restrictions
placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement. Where this
title imposes a greater restriction upon land or structures than is imposed or
required by existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the
provisions of this title shall control. The concept of "spot zoning" shall be
specifically repudiated by this title. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-1-4: GENERAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
To assist in determining the need for a permit, the following general
guidelines may be used:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit shall be required for:
      1.   Anything that is to be permanently attached to the property. This
includes buildings, cement pads, sidewalks, perimeter walls, hedges and fences
(even though the fence posts are not cemented in).
      2.   An enclosed addition to any existing building on the property.
      3.   Whenever public utilities are required to a facility.
      4.   Home occupation (see definition, section
10-2-2 of this title).
      5.   Nonconforming use (see definition, section
10-2-2 of this title).
      6.   Planned development.
      7.   Zoning additions or changes.
      8.   Roofing repair or replacement.
      9.   Other items covered by this title but not specifically listed in
this subsection. (Ord. 12-004, 8-21-2012)
   B.   Posting: The permit and copy of proposed work description shall be
conspicuously posted at the work site. The ordinance enforcement officer is
responsible to the town council to see that the permit is posted, and verifies
that only the described work is being performed (see definition of "ordinance
enforcement officer", section
10-2-2 of this title).
   C.   Permit Not Required: A permit will not be required for:
      1.   Any portable building (see definition, section
10-2-2 of this title). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
      2.   Any building repair or interior remodeling. (Ord. 06-09-002, 10-4-
2005)
   D.   Waivers: Waivers of the zoning and setback requirements may be granted
using the following procedure:
      1.   A written request and explanation of circumstances shall accompany
the request for waiver.
      2.   The request must be presented, in person, to the planning and zoning
commission at a scheduled meeting 1 .
      3.   A majority vote in favor must be obtained from the planning and
zoning members present. The town council will then determine whether or not to
allow all or part of the waiver. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   E.   Cost Of Permit: The rate schedule used to determine the cost of the
building permit shall be kept on file at the clerk-treasurer's office at the
Guernsey town hall. This rate may be periodically reviewed and changed as
required. (Ord. 06-09-002, 10-4-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. Note: In certain cases a consent, in writing, may be required from the
  applicant's neighbors.
10-1-5: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The town is hereby divided into zones or districts, as shown on the official
zoning map, which together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
adopted and declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Construction
10-2-2: General Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely suggestive. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building customarily incident to and located on the
same lot with the main building.
   ALLEY: A public way twenty feet (20') in width which is not designed for
general travel and is used as a means of access to the rear of the property
abutting along its length.
   BUFFER: Used in the form of plantings or decorative walls or fences to
adequately buffer, separate, or conceal a commercial/business/industrial zone
from a residential zone. A public street or alleyway shall not be considered a
buffer. This exclusion does not apply to a state highway.
   BUILDING: An enclosed structure which is for the habitation or shelter of
human beings, the shelter or storage of property, or for the occupation for
some purpose of trade or manufacture.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical dimension measured from the average elevation
of the finished lot grade at the front of the building, to the highest point of
the ceiling of the top story in the case of a flat roof, or to the deck line of
a mansard roof, and to the average height between the plate and ridge of a
gable, hip or gambrel roof.
   BUILDING LINE: A line formed by the outer face of the closing wall of a
building or portion thereof and the surface of the ground used to establish
certain setback requirements.
   CONDOMINIUM: An individual air space unit shall consist of any enclosed room
or rooms occupying all or part of a floor or floors in a building of one or
more floors to be used as residential, professional, commercial, or industrial
purposes and which has access to a public street.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan required to show total utilization of a plot of
undeveloped land requiring subdivision. A plan is also required for
resubdivision of an existing development if the cost is expected to be twenty
five percent (25%) of, or greater than, the worth of the existing development.
   DRIP LINE: The overhang of a roof from which water drips. Some setback
requirements are measured from this location. Setbacks for any structure or
building not having a drip line will be measured from the structure or building
line.
   DUPLEX DWELLING: Two (2) single-family dwelling units sharing a common wall
on the same lot which may or may not have joint services or facilities for
both.
   DWELLING: One or more rooms providing complete living facilities for one
family, including equipment for cooking provisions for the same, and including
room, or rooms, for living, sleeping, and eating.
   DWELLING; MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling or group of dwellings on one plot
containing separate living units for three (3) or more families, but which may
have joint services or facilities for each.
   FAMILY: One or more persons living as a single household or housekeeping
unit.
   FRONT YARD: A space on the same lot with the main building, extending the
full width of the lot and situated between the back of the curb and the front
line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
   GARAGE: A building or part thereof accessory to a main building and
providing storage of automobiles.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling or
accessory building and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes and does not change the character thereof, and not more than two (2)
persons are engaged in such occupation. Some home occupations may require
written consent of neighbors within a radius of four hundred feet (400').
   LAWFUL USE: A term used to define the legal utilization of a building or
structure not meeting the minimum requirements of this title.
   LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one building,
and the accessory buildings, or uses customarily incidental to it, including
such open spaces as are required by this title.
   LOT CORNER: A lot at the point of abutting of two (2) or more intersecting
streets, the angle or intersection being not more than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
   MAIN BUILDING: Any enclosed structure and its attached structures for the
habitation or shelter of human beings.
   MOBILE HOME: A structure transportable on its own undercarriage and wheels
and so constructed as to permit its being conveyed upon a public street or
highway with special permit and constructed in such a manner as will allow
permanent year round occupancy thereof as a dwelling. A structure having a
flush toilet, bath or shower, and all other home facilities. (This definition
also applies to structures termed as "doublewide".)
   MODULAR STRUCTURE: An enclosed prefabricated structure transportable using
separate conveyance and placed on a permanently constructed foundation for use
as a dwelling or accessory building. Structure must be supported at its outside
perimeter walls.
   MOTORIZED HOME: A vehicle used and so constructed as to permit it being used
as a conveyance upon public streets and highways and duly licensable as such,
constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof, as a temporary
dwelling. (Examples would include pickup campers, on or off vehicle, and
converted buses.)
   NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES: Any building or structure that does
not meet the minimum setback requirements of this title.
   NONCONFORMING USE: The use of structures or buildings, portable or
permanent, for activities in areas not zoned for such use.
   ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: An individual appointed by the town council
for the purpose of verifying that the proper permit is posted at the work site
and that the work is being done according to the approved work description.
Said officer shall have stop work authority.
   PORTABLE BUILDING: A building of two hundred (200) square feet or less, not
permanently attached to the property or to another permanent building. A
portable building must be able to be moved in case of an emergency. Public
utilities cannot be permanently attached.
   REAR YARD: A space on the same lot with the main building between the rear
line of the building and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width
of the lot.
   SETBACK: To be considered from property line or back of curb to drip line or
building line.
   SIDE YARD: A space on the same lot with the main building situated between
the building drip line and the side line of the lot and extending from the
front yard to the rear yard.
   STREET: A public thoroughfare more than thirty feet (30') in width which has
been dedicated or deeded to the public use and which affords principal means of
access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground, including signs
and billboards, but not including fences or walls used as fences.
   TOWN COUNCIL: The governing body of the town of Guernsey.
   TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling unit attached to another single-family
unit by a common wall and containing three (3) or more dwelling units. The
owner of the dwelling unit shall also own a specific lot or parcel of land
(with a deed) in conjunction with the ownership of the townhouse unit.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A duly licensed fifth wheel or other towable trailer of any
length, so constructed as to permit it being conveyed upon public streets and
highways without special permits and constructed in such a manner as will
permit occupancy thereof, as a temporary or seasonal dwelling. (Wheels and
axles are not normally removed. If they are removed, then trailer must meet
zoning required for mobile homes.)
   UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES: A building or structure so constructed that
it creates a potential threat to life and limb, or an existing building or
structure that has deteriorated to the point where it is declared by a
knowledgeable representative of the town as unsafe to be in or around. (Ord.
04-07-003, 8-9-2003; amd. Ord. 06-09-002, 10-4-2005; Ord. 09-13-013, 10-1-2013)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Uses Permitted
10-3A-2: Building Height
10-3A-3: Lot Area
10-3A-4: Yards
10-3A-5: Distance Between Buildings
10-3A-6: Accessory Buildings
10-3A-7: Uses Not Permitted
10-3A-1: USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings.
Home occupation.
Modular structure placed on a permanent foundation.
One-family dwelling. (Ord. 03-01-15, 4-7-2015)
10-3A-2:   BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height, thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3A-3:   LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area, seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. (Ord. 04-07-
003, 8-9-2003)
10-3A-4:   YARDS:
   A.   Front yard: Minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back of curb to
building line.
   B.   Side yard: Minimum of five feet (5') from drip line of roof to side lot
line 1 . (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   C.   Rear yard: Not less than five feet (5'). (Ord. 07-02-001, 2-20-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "drip line", section 10-2-2 of this title.
10-3A-5:   DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings and accessory buildings a distance
of ten feet (10') from drip line to drip line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3A-6:   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
The drip line of the roof may be located five feet (5') from rear and side lot
line.
   A.   Garage entrance, minimum of twelve feet (12') from rear lot line.
   B.   Garage entrance, minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back side of
street curb. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3A-7:   USES NOT PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings without a primary dwelling.
Any business/commercial use.
Any industrial use.
Any occupation which does not fall within the definition of "home occupation"
as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title.
Any R-2 or R-3 multiple-family use.
Mobile home, motorized home, travel trailer, camper trailer, or any other type
of recreation vehicle. (Ord. 03-01-15, 4-7-2015)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MULTIPLE RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Uses Permitted
10-3B-2: Building Height
10-3B-3: Lot Area
10-3B-4: Yards
10-3B-5: Distance Between Buildings
10-3B-6: Accessory Buildings
10-3B-7: Uses Not Permitted
10-3B-1: USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings.
Duplex dwellings.
Home occupation. (Ord. 03-02-15, 4-7-2015)
10-3B-2:   BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height, thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3B-3:   LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area, seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. (Ord. 04-07-
003, 8-9-2003)
10-3B-4:   YARDS:
   A.   Front yard: Minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back of curb to
building line.
   B.   Side yard: Minimum of five feet (5') from drip line of roof to side lot
line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   C.   Rear yard: Not less than five feet (5'). (Ord. 07-02-001, 2-20-2007)
10-3B-5:   DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings and accessory buildings a distance
of ten feet (10') from drip line to drip line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3B-6:   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Drip line of roof may be located five feet (5') from rear and side lot line.
   A.   Garage entrance, minimum of twelve feet (12') from rear lot line.
   B.   Garage entrance, minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back side of
street curb. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3B-7:   USES NOT PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings without a primary dwelling.
Any business/commercial use.
Any industrial use.
Any MH-1 use.
Any occupation which does not fall within the definition of "home occupation"
as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title.
Any R-1 residential use.
Any R-3 multiple-family use.
Mobile home, motorized home, travel trailer, camper trailer, or any type of
recreation vehicle. (Ord. 03-02-15, 4-7-2015)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MULTIPLE RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Uses Permitted
10-3C-2: Building Height
10-3C-3: Lot Area
10-3C-4: Yards
10-3C-5: Distance Between Buildings
10-3C-6: Accessory Buildings
10-3C-7: Uses Not Permitted
10-3C-1: USES PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings.
Home occupation.
Multiple dwellings for three (3) or more families.
Townhouses and condominiums. (Ord. 03-03-15, 4-7-2015)
10-3C-2:   BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height, thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3C-3:   LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area, seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. (Ord. 04-07-
003, 8-9-2003)
10-3C-4:   YARDS:
   A.   Front yard: Minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back of curb to
building line.
   B.   Side yard: Minimum of five feet (5') from drip line of roof to side lot
line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   C.   Rear yard: Not less than five feet (5'). (Ord. 07-02-001, 2-20-2007)
10-3C-5:   DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings and accessory buildings a distance
of ten feet (10') from drip line to drip line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3C-6:   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Drip line of roof may be located five feet (5') from rear and side lot line.
   A.   Garage entrance, minimum of twelve feet (12') from rear lot line.
   B.   Garage entrance, minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back side of
street curb. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3C-7:   USES NOT PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings without a primary dwelling.
Any business/commercial use.
Any industrial use.
Any MH-1 use.
Any occupation which does not fall within the definition of "home occupation"
as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title.
Any R-1 or R-2 residential use.
Mobile home, motorized home, travel trailer, camper trailer, or any type of
recreation vehicle. (Ord. 03-03-15, 4-7-2015)
ARTICLE D. MH-1 MOBILE HOME RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Uses Permitted
10-3D-2: Building Height
10-3D-3: Lot Area
10-3D-4: Yards
10-3D-5: Distance Between Buildings
10-3D-6: Accessory Buildings
10-3D-7: Skirting
10-3D-8: Uses Not Permitted
10-3D-1: USES PERMITTED:
Any use permitted in the R-1 and R-2 zones.
Accessory buildings.
Home occupation.
One-family dwelling. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3D-2:   BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height, thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3D-3:   LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area, seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. (Ord. 04-07-
003, 8-9-2003)
10-3D-4:   YARDS:
   A.   Front yard: Minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back of curb to
building line.
   B.   Side yard: Minimum of five feet (5') from drip line of roof to side lot
line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   C.   Rear yard: No minimum required. (Ord. 06-09-005, 11-15-2005)
10-3D-5:   DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings and accessory buildings a distance
of ten feet (10') from drip line to drip line. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3D-6:   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Drip line of roof may be located five feet (5') from rear and side lot line.
   A.   Garage entrance, minimum of twelve feet (12') from rear lot line.
   B.   Garage entrance, minimum of twenty five feet (25') from back side of
street curb. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3D-7:   SKIRTING:
Perimeter of trailer must be skirted from the base of the trailer to the
ground. Skirting must be installed no later than sixty (60) days after trailer
has been located onto a lot or lot area. (Ord. 06-09-002, 10-4-2005)
10-3D-8:   USES NOT PERMITTED:
Accessory buildings without a primary dwelling.
Any occupation which does not fall within the definition of "home occupation"
as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title. (Ord. 07-02-001, 2-20-2007)
ARTICLE E. COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS ZONE 1
SECTION:
10-3E-1: Uses Permitted
10-3E-2: Privacy Wall Or Fence Required
10-3E-3: Building Height
10-3E-4: Lot Area
10-3E-5: Lot Width
10-3E-6: Yards
10-3E-7: Distance Between Buildings
10-3E-8: Uses Not Permitted
10-3E-8: Uses Not Permitted
10-3E-9: Area Designated For Multi-Use/Mixed Use Commercial/Residential Zone
 
Notes
1 1. Any and all new construction, if covered under ADA, shall meet with said
  requirements.
10-3E-1: USES PERMITTED:
All commercial/business activities shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building unless otherwise specified. Any use operating as
stores, shops, hotels, motels, restaurants, bars, drive-up food establishments,
or businesses shall be primarily retail establishments and allow only for
incidental wholesale of products produced on the premises in accordance with
WSS 15-1-601..
Auto repairs:
   A.   Auto body and fender work, painting and upholstering when performed in
a completely enclosed building. Incidental repairs may be performed outside of
the enclosed building.
   B.   No storage of automobiles for salvage purposes. Automobile parking on
the premises may be those awaiting repair only.
   C.   (Rep. by Ord. 2023-003, 7-18-2023)
   D.   All vehicles must be parked/stored on business property and not on
public or other private property per WSS 15-1-103(xliv)(A-E).
   E.   Repaired vehicles may be parked on a public street for no more than
twenty (20) consecutive days.
10-3E-2:   PRIVACY WALL OR FENCE REQUIRED:
Where a commercial/business zone abuts (shares a property line) with a
residential zone, a minimum six foot (6')/maximum ten foot (10') high
decorative privacy wall or fence shall be constructed along the abutment except
as needed for an entry or exit. A public street or alleyway shall not be
considered a buffer. This exclusion does not apply to a state highway. (Ord.
09-17-013, 10-1-2013)
10-3E-3:   BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height, thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3E-4:   LOT AREA:
   A.   For all residential single, and multi-family dwellings, a minimum lot
area, of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet is required.
   B.   Property with a lot area less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
square feet, construction may commence only with a plan review, and with a town
variance approval process.
   C.   For non-conforming use, new construction must follow the permitting and
submission process found in this chapter. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003; amd. Ord.
2023-003, 7-18-2023)
10-3E-5:   LOT WIDTH:
No minimum for business. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3E-6:   YARDS:
   A.   Front yard:
      1.   No minimum for business.
      2.   Minimum of five feet (5') from drip line of roof to side lot line.
   B.   Side yard:
      1.   No minimum for business.
      2.   Minimum of five feet (5') from drip line of roof to side lot line.
   C.   Rear yard:
      1.   No minimum for business.
      2.   Not less than five feet (5'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003; amd. Ord.
2023-003, 7-18-2023)
10-3E-7:   DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS:
The minimum distance between main buildings and accessory buildings, a distance
of ten feet (10') from drip line to drip line between all buildings for
residential single and multi-family dwellings.
Accessory buildings: Drip line of roof may be located five feet (5') from rear
and side of lot line.
   A.   Garage entrance, minimum of twelve feet (12') from rear of lot line.
   B.   Garage entrance, minimum of twenty-five feet (25') from back side of
street curb. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-003, 7-18-2023)
10-3E-8:   USES NOT PERMITTED:
Mobile homes, motorized homes, travel trailers, camper trailers, any type of
recreation vehicles, or any temporary or permanent residential use. (Ord. 09-
18-013, 10-1-2013)
10-3E-9: AREA DESIGNATED FOR MULTI-USE/MIXED USE COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL ZONE:
   A.   Area encompassing one (1) block north and one (1) block south of
Highway 26/Whalen Street, inclusively, extending east to west, from town
boundary to town boundary, unless otherwise specified.
   B.   Area encompassing one (1) block east, and one (1) block west of Wyoming
Street from the northern most boundary of the town extending south to
Burlington Street, extending from Wyoming Ave. to Nebraska Ave.
   C.   The parcel of land located in the SE1/4SW1/4 of section 35, T27N, R66W
of the 6th P.M. of Platte County Wyoming. Extending one (1) block south of
Chugwater Street, extending from Wyoming Ave. to Nebraska Ave.
   D.   All currently zoned commercial properties unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. 2023-003, 7-18-2023)
10-3E-10: APPROVALS OF CONSTRUCTION/ESTABLISHMENT OF BUSINESS AND/OR
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS WITHIN MULTI-USE/MIXED USE ZONING:
Approvals for construction/establishment of business or residence within the
multi-use/mixed use zone shall be made through the town planning office,
planning and zoning commission, and the town council. (Ord. 2023-003, 7-18-
2023)
ARTICLE F. INDUSTRIAL ZONE 1
SECTION:
10-3F-1: Uses Permitted
10-3F-2: Industrial Buffer Required
10-3F-3: Building Height
10-3F-4: Lot Area
10-3F-5: Lot Width
10-3F-6: Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit
10-3F-7: Yards
10-3F-8: Uses Not Permitted
 
Notes
1 1. Any and all new construction, if covered under ADA, shall meet with said
  requirements.
10-3F-1: USES PERMITTED:
Automobile wrecking yards.
Building material sales yard.
Contractor yard.
Manufacturing and warehousing.
One office or office trailer for a watchman in conjunction with a permitted
use. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3F-2:   INDUSTRIAL BUFFER REQUIRED:
Where an industrial use adjoins, faces or confronts a residential property or a
major or secondary highway, such industrial use shall provide a yard of no less
than ten percent (10%) of the lot depth or width on the side or sides abutting,
facing, or confronting said uses, but such yard need not exceed fifty feet
(50') unless a greater depth or width is required for storage or manufacturing
of explosive or volatile products. A perimeter visual buffer wall or fence or
screen not less than eight feet (8') in height is required. A public street or
alleyway shall not be considered a buffer. (Ord. 09-19-013, 10-1-2013)
10-3F-3:   BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height, thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3F-4:   LOT AREA:
No minimum. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3F-5:   LOT WIDTH:
No minimum. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3F-6:   LOT AREA PER DWELLING UNIT:
None. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3F-7:   YARDS:
   A.   Front yard: None except as provided in section 10-3F-2 of this article.
   B.   Side yard: None except as provided in section 10-3F-2 of this article.
   C.   Rear yard: None except as provided in section 10-3F-2 of this article.
(Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-3F-8:   USES NOT PERMITTED:
No residential use. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
CHAPTER 4
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Off Street Parking
10-4-2: Signs
10-4-3: Fences, Walls, Hedges, Shrubs And Trees
10-4-4: Sidewalks And Driveways
10-4-5: Minimum Lot Size
10-4-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Parking Space Defined: For the purpose of this section, two hundred
forty (240) square feet of floor or lot area, together with adequate access to
a public street, shall be deemed to be one parking space; the space being
twelve feet by twenty feet (12' x 20'). (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   B.   Parking Space Requirements: Off street automobile parking space, or
evidence of the availability of said parking space, shall be provided according
to the following schedule and subject to the following conditions in any zone
in which any of the following uses shall hereafter be established:
Use Spaces Required
Use                                     Spaces Required
                                        1 space for each 5 seats or for each 5
Churches and auditoriums                persons of design occupancy of the
                                        primary meeting room
                                        A minimum of 1 off street parking space
Dwellings                               per residential dwelling unit per lot
                                        shall be provided
Hospitals, nursing homes, clinics,      1 space for each 600 feet gross floor
sanatoriums, or convalescent homes      area and 1 space for each doctor
Hotels, motels, and boarding and        1 space per guestroom
rooming houses
Offices                                 1 space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Restaurants and nightclubs              1 space per 75 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Retail sales facilities                 1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
                                        1 space per 200 square feet of building
Warehouses and wholesale establishments office and/or display area, plus 1
                                        space per 1,000 square feet of
                                        additional gross floor area
 
In addition to the requirements of any other section of this title, one off
street parking space for each employee shall be provided for any land use other
than an office building. The number of employees used in computing parking
requirements shall be the greatest number of persons employed at any time of
the day or night.
Any business that requires pick up or delivery of goods by any vehicle over
twenty six thousand one (26,001) pounds' GVW (commercial vehicles) shall
provide, at a minimum, one off street loading area. Minimum size will be ten
feet (10') wide by thirty feet (30') long. This area will not include any of
the curb or sidewalk area. (Ord. 09-20-013, 10-1-2013)
10-4-2: SIGNS:
   A.   General Requirements: Signs shall be permitted according to the
following general requirements:
      1.   All signs must be constructed in a professional like manner.
      2.   Signs protruding from a business building shall be ten feet (10')
above a public sidewalk at the sign's lowest point.
      3.   Off premises advertising signs (billboards) shall not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet in area per face.
      4.   Real estate development signs: Such signs shall be located on the
site being advertised and shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area
per face.
      5.   Vehicles or trailers may be used as signs; provided, that use does
not exceed thirty (30) days.
   B.   Exemptions: All signs erected by a public agency controlling or
directing traffic, railroad crossing warning devices, and private signs used
exclusively to direct automobile traffic on private property shall be exempt
from these regulations.
   C.   Prohibited Signs: The following shall be prohibited:
      1.   Those with mechanical or electrical appurtenances, such as
"revolving beacons" which are obviously designed to just compel attention.
      2.   Any sign located so as to conflict with any public devices
controlling public traffic.
      3.   Any sign that will interfere with the sight distance or view that is
required to safely operate a motor vehicle or for pedestrians to cross a right
of way where motor vehicles are operated. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-4-3: FENCES, WALLS, HEDGES, SHRUBS AND TREES:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Front Yard: Those used as a front yard boundary shall not exceed
four feet (4') in height. (See definition of "front yard", section
10-2-2 of this title.)
      2.   Side Yard: Those used as side yard boundaries abutting streets on
corner lots shall not exceed four feet (4') in height. (See definition of "side
yard", section
10-2-2 of this title.) (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
      3.   Setback: All that are adjacent to streets shall be set back a
minimum of four feet (4') from back of curb to allow for sidewalks and
pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 06-09-002, 10-4-2005)
      4.   Rear And Interior Side Yards: Rear and interior side yards (side
yard not abutting a street) that use fences, walls, hedges, shrubs or trees as
a boundary shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height. (See definitions of
"rear yard" and "side yard", section
10-2-2 of this title.)
      5.   Barbed Wire Or Other Sharp Objects: No residential fences or walls
shall be constructed using barbed wire or other sharp objects.
      6.   Electric Fences: No aboveground electrified fences shall be used.
(Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   B.   Industrial Fences And Walls: Perimeter fences that are adjacent to
residential zones or land uses and/or public roads shall have a solid buffer
wall or fence of a minimum of six feet (6') and not to exceed ten feet (10') in
height or a maintained greenbelt area consisting of trees and/or hedges. A
public street or alleyway shall not be considered a buffer. This exclusion does
not apply to a state highway. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003; amd. Ord. 09-13-013,
10-1-2013)
10-4-4: SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS:
All sidewalks and driveways must be constructed in a professional like manner.
Sidewalks and driveways shall be included in the new construction of commercial
and residential facilities. (Ord. 06-09-002, 10-4-2005)
10-4-5: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
After approval of this title, no parcel of land may be subdivided into lots
that are less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. (Ord. 04-
07-003, 8-9-2003)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Public Utilities Permitted
10-5-2: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
10-5-3: Violation
10-5-4: Penalty
10-5-1: PUBLIC UTILITIES PERMITTED:
Nothing in this title shall prevent the location or erection of installations
necessary to distribute public utilities. However, this does not provide for
storage yards or warehousing unless allowed by the zone in which the
installation is located. Such an installation is subject to the minimum/maximum
front and side yard requirements of the zone in which said installation is
located. Fences, walls and buffers shall be erected in compliance with the
minimum front and side yard requirements of the applicable zone. (Ord. 04-07-
003, 8-9-2003)
10-5-2: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Any building or structure shown upon an official subdivision map duly approved
and recorded prior to the effective date hereof, or any building or structure
for which a bona fide deed is of record in the office of the county recorder of
Platte County, or for which a valid, bona fide contract of sale is in full
force and effect at the time this title becomes effective, and said map, deed
or contract of sale is of record on said date, then the lawful use of any
building, or structure existing at the time of the enactment hereof may be
continued although such use does not conform with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   A.   Unsafe Or Hazardous Building Or Structure: Nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition any portion of
a building or structure declared unsafe or hazardous by a proper authority, as
designated by the town council. (See definition of "unsafe buildings or
structures" in section
10-2-2 of this title.) (Ord. 09-21-013, 10-1-2013)
   B.   Reconstruction: A nonconforming building or structure may be rebuilt
due to loss by fire or other catastrophic occurrence as long as the
nonconformance is not worsened.
   C.   Construction Approved Prior To Enactment Of Chapter: Nothing contained
in this chapter shall require any change in plans, construction or designated
use of a building or structure for which a building permit has been issued and
the construction of which shall have been diligently processed within three (3)
months of the date of such permit. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
   D.   Abandonment: The use of a nonconforming building or structure or land
use which has been abandoned shall not thereafter be returned to any use unless
a conforming building or structure or land use has replaced it or it has been
changed to another use under permit from the planning and zoning commission and
town council and the property shall revert to conforming use. The following
will be considered abandonment:
      1.   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent.
      2.   When the characteristic equipment and the furnishings of the
nonconforming building have been removed from the premises and have not been
replaced by similar equipment within one year and no facts show intention to
resume use. (Ord. 09-21-013, 10-1-2013)
   E.   Permits Of Nonconformity: The town council shall not issue a building
permit for any nonconforming building or structure, unless a permit for the use
of nonconforming property or evidence satisfactory to the town council is
presented to show the existence of the nonconformity at the time of the
adoption hereof.
   F.   Trailer Home On Lots Not Zoned For Trailer Homes: Trailer homes on lots
not zoned for trailer homes may be upgraded with another home if the new
trailer home is no older than five (5) years at the time of request. Newer unit
must be installed within sixty (60) days of the removal of the older unit. If,
after one extension of time, the home has not been replaced, property shall
revert to conforming use.
   G.   Nonconforming Use: The temporary use of a motorized home or travel
trailer may be granted in areas not zoned for these units as long as the
following requirements are met:
      1.   Utilities shall not be attached in a permanent manner.
      2.   If unit is to be in place for longer than three (3) weeks, a request
for permit is presented to the planning and zoning commission and approved by
the town council.
      3.   Permit shall be limited to one year. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-5-3: VIOLATION:
The property owner or the owner's agent or representative is responsible for
compliance with this title. If responsible party is deemed to be out of
compliance, said party shall be issued a stop work order by the ordinance
enforcement officer. Offender shall have five (5) working days in which to
demonstrate intent of bringing work into compliance or submit a request for
waiver. (See subsection
10-1-4D of this title for waiver.) If a request for waiver is submitted, all
work must stop until the waiver is reviewed by the planning and zoning
commission and approved by the town council. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-5-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Fine: After the five (5) day period, any property
owner or his/her agent or representative who refuses to obey the stop work
order or refuses to comply with provisions of this title, shall be ticketed by
the town police for the sum of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each offense. Each day that a violation exists, after offender has been
notified, shall constitute a separate offense and will be fined accordingly.
   B.   Additional Remedies: In addition thereto, the town shall have the full
power and authority to seek a temporary restraining order and/or injunction
against the violator. Any fines, including criminal fines, attorney fees or
costs incurred by the town not paid by the violator shall constitute a lien
against the real property of the violator and the town may foreclose the same
according to law. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
CHAPTER 6
AMENDMENTS AND ZONE CHANGES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Amendments
10-6-2: Fees
10-6-3: Application
10-6-4: Planning And Zoning Commission Action
10-6-5: Town Council Action
10-6-1: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the procedures established by this chapter is
to provide for appropriate and timely ordinance amendments and district zone
changes.
   B.   Power To Amend, Supplement Or Change: The town council may, from time
to time, after receiving a report from the planning and zoning commission and
after public hearings required by law, amend, supplement or change the
regulations or zones set forth herein or subsequently established. Any
amendment, supplement or change may be initiated by the planning and zoning
commission or by petition of affected persons as hereafter provided.
   C.   Proposal For Zone Change: Any person, firm or corporation may propose a
zone change for a single parcel or contiguous parcels and shall initiate such
proceedings by filing with the planning and zoning commission, a proper and
complete application for such changes in such form as may be prescribed by the
town council and the payment of the fee as provided in section 10-6-2 of this
chapter. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-6-2: FEES:
For the purpose of covering the cost of mailing notices, posting, making and
printing maps, investigations, analyses, administrative and other expenses
involved in a zone change, the following fees shall apply.
   A.   Payable Prior/Not Refundable: All fees are payable prior to the stated
actions and no refund shall be made.
   B.   Rezoning Fees: Under all zoning or rezoning, the applicant will be
assessed a base fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00). The applicant will also
be charged for all costs incurred by the town plus ten percent (10%). (Ord. 04-
07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-6-3: APPLICATION:
The application shall include the following:
   A.   The applicant's name, address, and interest in the request.
      1.   The name and address of every person, firm or corporation
represented by the applicant including every party in interest whether a
beneficiary under a trust or otherwise.
      2.   Where any application covers land held under a trust agreement or by
a corporation, the applicant shall list the names of the parties to the trust
and the corporate officers.
      3.   In addition, the applicant shall file an affidavit, signed by the
owners, to attest he is authorized and empowered to act for them in such
proceeding.
   B.   The proposed zoning change including sufficiently accurate map that
describes the affected area.
   C.   A statement showing that present conditions require the proposed change
to permit the proper utilization of the property in accordance with acceptable
planning and zoning principles and practices. Such statements shall further
include a presentation of any other factors or reasons which the applicant
offers in support of the proposed zone change.
   D.   The applicant shall submit to the town an accurate, verified list, made
within the previous thirty (30) days, giving the names and addresses of the
record owners of all properties lying within the proposed change and of all
properties any part of which is within one hundred forty feet (140'), not
including the width of any intervening street or alley, or more, if the
planning and zoning commission deems necessary. The applicant, at his or her
own expense, shall furnish this list. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-6-4: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
Upon initiation of any proposed ordinance amendment or zoning change, the
planning and zoning commission, after a public meeting, shall transmit its
recommendations to the town council. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
10-6-5: TOWN COUNCIL ACTION:
Upon the receipt of the commission report and recommendation, the town council
shall hold a public hearing thereon after giving at least fifteen (15) days'
notice by publication in the official newspaper and mailing, by first class,
notice to those property owners on the verified list. The town council may
thereupon take appropriate action. (Ord. 04-07-003, 8-9-2003)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Title And Authority
10-7-2: Definitions
10-7-3: Permits
10-7-4: Inspection Of Mobile Home Park
10-7-5: Notice, Hearings And Orders
10-7-6: Environmental, Open Space, And Access Requirements
10-7-7: Density, Spacing, And Other Standards
10-7-8: Streets, Parking, And Numbering Of Unit Spaces
10-7-9: Utility Hookups For Mobile Home Parks
10-7-10: Mobile Home Unit Space
10-7-11: Utilities And Other Services
10-7-12: Responsibilities Of The Management
10-7-13: Variance
10-7-14: Appeal
10-7-15: Placement Regulations
10-7-16: Penalties And Violation
10-7-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known as the GUERNSEY MOBILE HOME
PARK ORDINANCE (MHPO).
   B.   Authority: July 1982, Wyoming mobile home park and campground
regulations.
   C.   Applicability:
      1.   This chapter replaces ordinance 78-12-106 in its entirety and shall
apply to all of the incorporated land within the town of Guernsey, Wyoming; and
including any existing mobile home parks, whose boundaries are established at
the time of the adoption date hereof by the town council of Guernsey, Wyoming.
      2.   This chapter is designed for mobile home park development but
requirements shall apply equally to all combined parks and campgrounds unless
specifically noted. (See section 10-7-2, "Definitions", of this chapter.) (Ord.
05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions for the interpretations of this chapter are as set out in this
section:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Any structure placed on the mobile home lot area not a
part of the mobile home as the mobile home was originally constructed.
   BUILDING: A structure erected for permanent use within the mobile home park.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: The person designated by the town council as the
building inspector of the town of Guernsey.
   CAMPGROUND: A platted parcel of land used to provide accommodations for
transit, temporary living.
   COMBINED PARK: A platted parcel of land, a portion of which is used as a
mobile home park and a separate portion used as a campground.
   COMMISSION OR PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The planning and zoning
commission of the town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
   EASEMENT: A specified use authorized by a property owner appurtenant to the
land.
   ENGINEER: The individual or firm currently licensed in the state of Wyoming
as a registered professional engineer who has been appointed by the town
council to act as its engineer.
   INTERIOR STREET: A roadway designed for the movement of motor vehicles
within a mobile home park.
   LICENSE: A written document issued by the town council allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this
regulation.
   LOT AREA: The total area reserved for exclusive use of the occupants of a
mobile home. (Sometimes referred to as "space" or "unit space" or "mobile home
lot".)
   LOT LINE: A line bounding the lot as shown on the accepted plan.
   MOBILE HOME: A structure transportable on its own undercarriage and wheels
and so constructed as to permit its being conveyed upon a public street or
highway with special permit and constructed in such a manner as will allow
permanent year round occupancy thereof as a dwelling. A structure having a
flush toilet, bath or shower, and all other home facilities. (This definition
also applies to structures termed as "doublewide".)
   MOBILE HOME PARK (MHP): A platted parcel of land, appropriately zoned, upon
which three (3) or more mobile homes are harbored for the purpose of being
occupied either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of
the equipment of such a mobile home park.
   MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of the mobile home lot area which has been
reserved for the placement of a mobile home.
   MOTOR HOME: A vehicle used and so constructed as to permit it being used as
a conveyance upon public streets and highways and duly licensable as such,
constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof, as a temporary
dwelling. (Examples would include pickup campers, on or off vehicle, and
converted busses.)
   PERMIT: A written document issued by the town council permitting the
construction, alteration or expansion or operation of a mobile home park.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation.
   PLOT PLAN: Any map, plat or chart indicating the location and boundaries of
properties consisting of two (2) or more lots described by reference to a
recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   RIGHTS OF WAY: The area, either public or private, over which the right of
passage exists.
   SCREENING: Shall be fencing, planting of trees, shrubs, etc., or open space
depending upon location of MHP.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet, lavatory and other service
equipment.
   SETBACK: To be considered from property line or lot area line to the drip
line or side of building or mobile home.
   SHALL: Indicates that which is required.
   SITE: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   SKIRTING: A partition extending from the lower edge of the exterior walls of
a mobile home to the ground.
   STATE: The state of Wyoming and its various agencies and departments, either
collectively or singly.
   STATE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY: The divisions of the state
government having to do with control of water, sewer, and waste facilities
throughout the state.
   STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES: The division of the state
government known as environmental surveillance services having to do with
health aspects of an MHP and other facilities throughout the state.
   TOWN: The town of Guernsey, Wyoming.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A duly licensed fifth wheel or other towable trailer of any
length, so constructed as to permit it being conveyed upon public streets and
highways without special permits and constructed in such a manner as will
permit occupancy thereof, as a temporary or seasonal dwelling. (Wheels and
axles are not normally removed. If they are removed then trailer must meet
zoning required for mobile homes.)
   TRAVELWAY: That portion of a roadway designed to directly accommodate
vehicular movement.
   TRUCK CAMPER: See definition of Motor Home.
   WATER CONNECTION: A connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home park.
   WATER RISER PIPE: That portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a
designated point at each mobile home lot. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005; amd. Ord.
09-22-013, 10-1-2013)
10-7-3: PERMITS:
After the adoption date hereof it shall be unlawful for any person to conduct,
alter, or extend any mobile home park hereafter referred to as MHP within the
town of Guernsey unless a valid permit has been issued by the town council of
the town of Guernsey in the name of the person for the specific operation,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or extension proposed.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, operate, or administer
any MHP within Guernsey unless such person has been issued a valid permit by
the town council. All applications for permits shall be reviewed by the
building inspector and the planning and zoning commission. The town council,
after considering the recommendations of the building inspector and the
planning and zoning commission shall issue or deny a permit, or grant the
permit upon compliance with stated conditions.
   B.   All applications for permits shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Location and legal description of the MHP and/or subdivision of land
according to state requirements, and certified by a land surveyor registered in
the state of Wyoming.
      3.   Adequate and complete engineering plans and specifications of the
proposed MHP which shall be approved by the town engineer including, but not
limited to:
         a.   Area and dimensions of the tract of land.
         b.   The number, location, and size of all individual mobile home
lots.
         c.   The location and width of roadways and walkways and parking
spaces.
         d.   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes, existing
and proposed.
         e.   The location of the water supply and refuse and wastewater
disposal facilities.
         f.   Floor plans of all buildings and central storage areas
constructed or to be constructed.
         g.   The location of the lighting and electrical systems and telephone
service, both existing and proposed.
         h.   The location of the recreation and open space areas and plans of
these.
         i.   A preliminary copy of the management's rules and regulations (as
in section
10-7-12 of this chapter).
         j.   The location of storm drains and catch basins and showing all
natural and proposed drainages on a map.
         k.   Location area of various types of land use within the MHP.
         l.   Proposal for maintenance of all common areas and facilities.
   C.   The application for an MHP permit shall be accompanied by a copy of a
valid permit issued by the state department of health and social services and
the state department of environmental quality; this shall indicate that the
plans and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the appropriate
state agencies.
   D.   All applications for an MHP permit shall be accompanied by a
performance bond or other evidence of liability insurance. The amount of the
guarantee to be required shall be determined based upon the estimated cost of
improvements to be installed in compliance with this chapter.
   E.   All applications for an MHP permit shall be accompanied by a fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) plus twenty five dollars ($25.00) per mobile home
lot.
   F.   One copy of the complete plans and specifications shall be filed with
the Guernsey town clerk-treasurer at least ninety (90) days prior to the
proposed start date of construction. Review of said plans shall be completed
within thirty (30) days of receipt by the building inspector and planning and
zoning commission, except for such state and federal requirements that may
apply.
   G.   Any person holding a valid permit shall give notice in writing to the
town council within fourteen (14) days after having sold, transferred, or
otherwise disposed of interest in or control of such MHP. If the MHP is to
continue in operation the new owner must apply for a permit as specified in
this chapter. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-4: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARK:
   A.   Whenever the building inspector determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, the town council shall give notice of such violation to the person to
whom the permit or license was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice
shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reason for its issuance;
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      4.   Be considered properly served when sent by registered mail with
return receipt; contain an outline of remedial action which would be considered
to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      5.   Unless such conditions are corrected the town council may revoke the
licensee's permit.
   B.   Whenever a qualified inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, the town council may
without notice or hearing issue an order citing the existence of such an
emergency, and require that such action be taken as the town council may deem
necessary to meet the emergency. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-5: NOTICE, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with the
enforcement of any provision of this chapter, may request and shall be granted
a hearing on the matter before a joint session of the planning and zoning
commission and the town council. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-6: ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE, AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General: Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage and topography
shall not create hazards to the property, adjacent properties, or the health
and safety of the occupants. The site when established shall not be exposed to
objectionable smoke, dust, noise, odors, or other adverse environmental
influences, and no portion subject to predictable sudden flooding or erosion,
and shall not be used for any purpose which would expose persons or property to
hazards.
   B.   Site Plan: Site plan improvements shall give consideration to:
      1.   Facilities and amenities appropriate to the needs of the occupants.
      2.   Safe, comfortable and sanitary use by the occupants under all
weather conditions.
      3.   Practical and efficient operation and maintenance of all facilities
at reasonable costs. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-7: DENSITY, SPACING, AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   The maximum density of an MHP shall be regulated by separation
requirements.
   B.   In an MHP no uses or facilities shall be allowed other than single-
family mobile homes and those uses and facilities designated to serve the
residents of the MHP and are compatibly incorporated into the design of the
MHP.
   C.   The MHP shall be adequately graded and drained.
   D.   Minimum MHP setback from the property line of a dedicated public street
or roadway is four feet (4').
   E.   Minimum mobile home setback from the MHP perimeter property line is
twelve feet (12').
   F.   Curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be provided by the property owner,
whenever an MHP abuts a dedicated public street or roadway. Curb, gutter, and
sidewalk shall be constructed to applicable standards specified by the
inspector of the town of Guernsey.
   G.   There shall be direct automobile access to individual mobile home
parking space from the interior road system, or from a dedicated public street
or roadway.
   H.   There shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') between a mobile home and
an abutting interior street travelway.
   I.   There shall be a minimum distance between the outside walls of any two
(2) mobile homes of fifteen feet (15').
   J.   The unit space shall be fitted to the terrain with a minimum of
disturbance to the land. Existing trees and other natural site features shall
be preserved to the extent that is possible.
   K.   All mobile homes shall be well maintained. All mobile homes shall have
an attractive, solid skirting around the perimeter, from bottom of mobile home
to surface of ground, installed within sixty (60) days of moving into an MHP.
   L.   All MHPs located adjacent to existing industrial or commercial land as
defined in the Guernsey land use map, shall be provided, by the permit holder,
with screening such as fences or natural growth along the property boundary
line separating the MHP and the nonresidential uses.
   M.   A total of at least five percent (5%) of the gross area of each mobile
home park shall be provided for recreational space. And at least an additional
five percent (5%) of the gross area shall be open space for recreational
vehicle parking.
   N.   All MHPs located adjacent to any other uses shall be provided, by the
permit holder, with screening such as fences or natural growth along the
property lines or as determined by the planning and zoning commission and
approved by the town council. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-8: STREETS, PARKING, AND NUMBERING OF UNIT SPACES:
   A.   All MHPs shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular access
from abutting public dedicated streets and roadways.
   B.   Entrances to an MHP shall have direct connection to a dedicated public
street or roadway. Any MHP having more than twenty (20) unit spaces shall have
at least two (2) entrances.
   C.   The street system shall provide convenient circulation by means of
minor streets and properly connected collector streets.
   D.   The surface of all interior streets shall be improved to provide safe,
all weather access to the unit spaces. The surface shall be maintained to be
smooth and free of holes or bumps, with the exception of speed bumps when or if
required.
   E.   The improved street surface shall be of adequate widths to accommodate
the parking and traffic in accordance with the type of street.
      1.   All entrance streets and other major streets with parking allowed on
both sides, forty feet (40') minimum.
      2.   Street with no on street parking, twenty four feet (24') minimum.
      3.   Minor street with parking allowed on only one side, thirty feet
(30') minimum.
   F.   Streets shall be adapted to the topography and should have suitable
alignment and gradient for traffic safety, satisfactory surface and ground
water drainage, and proper functioning of sanitary and storm sewer systems.
Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure adequate surface drainage.
   G.   Street intersections should generally be at right angles. Intersections
of more than two (2) streets should be avoided.
   H.   At the intersection of MHP streets there shall be a sign readily
visible from the street stating the names of the intersecting streets and the
numbers of those unit spaces to be served by the specified street. The letters
on this sign shall be no less than four inches (4") in height.
   I.   Every mobile home shall display, on the side most readily observed from
the abutting street, with numbers no less than four inches (4") high, the
number of its unit space.
   J.   A common walk system shall be provided and maintained between locations
where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Such common walks shall be a minimum
of three feet (3') in width. All unit spaces shall be connected by walks no
less than three feet (3') in width.
   K.   At least one entrance to a mobile home shall be connected to a common
walk. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width of three feet (3').
   L.   All walks shall have a smooth, hard and dense surface which shall be
durable under normal use and weather conditions. The walks shall be
consistently maintained by the MHP owner. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-9: UTILITY HOOKUPS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   Each unit lot area shall be provided with underground electrical power.
   B.   Each unit lot area shall be provided with potable water.
   C.   Each unit lot area shall be provided access to waste disposal. (Ord.
05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-10: MOBILE HOME UNIT SPACE:
   A.   The limits of each mobile home lot area should be marked on the ground
with iron bars placed at each lot corner; location of lots on the ground shall
be in accordance with the approved plot plan.
   B.   There shall be at least one improved parking space on each mobile home
lot. Each parking space shall be located off the designated MHP streets with a
minimum dimension of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20').
   C.   The mobile home stand shall be improved to provide adequate support for
the placement and installation of the mobile home; such as anchors or tie
downs, etc. These anchor systems shall be placed at the expense of the
individual mobile home owner.
   D.   Accessory structures may be constructed to provide additional storage
or similar benefit to the individual mobile home; such a structure shall not be
used as a part of the interior living unit. The codes and standards that shall
be followed in all new construction are the international building code, 2003.
      1.   Accessory structures shall be designed in a manner that will enhance
the appearance of the MHP.
      2.   Accessory structures shall not obstruct required openings for light
and ventilation of the mobile home, shall not be closer than five feet (5') to
the mobile home lot line, and shall not prevent inspection of mobile home
equipment utility connections.
      3.   For combined parks and campgrounds, the floor plan of the service
building shall be in accordance with the state requirements as stated in the
1982 mobile home park and campground requirements.
      4.   Electrical circuits supplying the accessory structures shall be
independent of the circuit supplying the mobile home.
      5.   All accessory buildings shall be anchored properly. (Ord. 05-05-003,
6-21-2005)
10-7-11: UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES:
   A.   Water Supply And Distribution System:
      1.   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each MHP. The quality of the water supply shall receive approval
from the applicable local and federal agencies.
      2.   The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of two
hundred fifty (250) gallons per day per mobile home.
      3.   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with applicable local, state and federal
regulations and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the appropriate
health agency.
      4.   The distribution system shall be designed and maintained as to
provide a pressure of not less than forty five (45) pounds and not more than
eighty (80) pounds per square inch, under all normal operating conditions at
each mobile home stand.
      5.   Fire hydrants shall be provided and located within three hundred
feet (300') of any mobile home, service building or other structure in the MHP.
   B.   Individual Water Riser Pipes And Connections:
      1.   An approved frostproof water riser shall be provided on each mobile
home lot.
      2.   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches (4") above
ground elevation. The pipe diameter shall be at least three-fourths inch (3/
4"). The water outlet shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the
lot.
      3.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
valves and riser pipes and to protect riser pipes from heaving and thawing
actions of the ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be
diverted from the location of the riser pipe.
   C.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   General Requirements: An adequate and safe sewage system shall be
provided in all mobile home parks for disposing of all sewage. Where possible,
connections shall be made to a public system. All sewage installations shall be
designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with local, state and
federal regulations. All connections shall be made with PVC pipe.
      2.   Sewer Lines: All sewer lines shall be located in trenches with a
minimum depth of four feet (4') to be free of damage from traffic. Sewer lines
shall be at a grade which will ensure a velocity of two feet (2') per second
when flowing full. The system shall be designed to handle a minimum flow of two
hundred fifty (250) gallons per day per mobile home lot. All lines shall be
constructed of materials approved by the building inspector and shall be
adequately vented, and joints shall be watertight.
      3.   Individual Sewer Connections:
         a.   Each mobile home stand shall have a four inch (4") diameter sewer
riser pipe.
         b.   The slope of any portion of the sewer connection shall be at
least one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot. All joints shall be watertight.
         c.   Provisions shall be made for sealing the riser pipe when a mobile
home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the
riser. The rim of the riser shall extend at least four inches (4") above ground
elevation.
   D.   Solid Waste Disposal System:
      1.   Solid waste collection stands shall be provided for all waste
containers. Such stands shall be built to avoid container deterioration and
minimize spillage.
      2.   No solid waste collection stand for the common use of more than one
mobile home shall be placed closer than twenty five feet (25') from any mobile
home.
      3.   Provisions shall be made to ensure refuse collection at a minimum of
once every week.
   E.   Gas And Electrical Distribution Systems:
      1.   All MHP electrical wiring, fixtures and equipment shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the national electrical code.
      2.   Gas equipment and installations within the mobile home park shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the applicable codes and
regulations.
      3.   Installation of gas and electrical distribution lines shall be
underground.
   F.   Telephone And Television: When telephone or cable television service is
provided, the distribution system shall be underground.
   G.   Approval: All plans for the construction of water, sewer, electrical
and other utility services must be approved by the appointed town engineer and
the state department of environmental quality and the state department of
health and social services where applicable. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-12: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MANAGEMENT:
   A.   The person to whom the permit for MHP is issued shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the MHP in compliance with this chapter and to keep
facilities and equipment in good repair and sanitary condition. The management
shall notify the residents of their duties and responsibilities under this
chapter. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
   B.   The management shall maintain a register containing the names of all
residents identified by lot number or street address. Such register shall be
available to any authorized person inspecting the MHP on behalf of the planning
and zoning commission, town council or other appropriate agencies. (Ord. 09-23-
013, 10-1-2013)
   C.   The management shall adopt rules and regulations for the MHP to ensure
a high standard of living for residents of the MHP.
   D.   A copy of all rules, regulations and procedures developed by the MHP
management for the operation of the MHP shall be on file at the Guernsey Town
Hall. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-13: VARIANCE:
   A.   A request for variance must be made in writing to the Guernsey planning
and zoning commission.
   B.   No variance will be considered if need for variance is a result of
self-inflicted conditions.
   C.   In no case shall any variation, modification, or waiver be more than a
minimum easing of these requirements.
   D.   In granting variances, modifications, and waivers, a joint session of
the planning and zoning commission, building inspector, town engineering or
other entities may be required to determine collateral effect of town
objectives.
   E.   Recommendations for approval or denial will be made to the Guernsey
town council by the planning and zoning commission.
   F.   Such variances, modifications, and waivers may be granted only by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the town council. (Ord. 05-05-
003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-14: APPEAL:
All decisions made by the council may be appealed to the court system of the
state of Wyoming. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-15: PLACEMENT REGULATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   All travel trailers, truck campers and motor homes shall be placed
on or in a section of the MHP subdivision platted for this specific purpose.
These shall be placed in a separate recreational vehicle (RV) section adjacent
to the mobile home area of the development and shall be for the above named
only.
      2.   The MHP developer shall furnish a copy of the management's rules and
regulations for these units per section
10-7-12 of this chapter.
      3.   All spaces providing utility hookups shall be constructed to meet
all state, county and town development standards for MHP and shall be subject
to the various inspections necessary by officials of these agencies.
      4.   If proposed plans for RV park section of the development differ from
mobile home section then adequate plans shall be furnished as per subsection
10-7-3B3 of this chapter.
      5.   Unit spaces shall meet the same minimum width requirements as in
sections
10-7-7 and
10-7-8 of this chapter. Each unit shall be given a separate number or letter
which shall be marked at a place easily seen from the access roadway. (Ord. 05-
05-003, 6-21-2005)
10-7-16: PENALTIES AND VIOLATION:
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of
violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days or both,
and in addition shall pay costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues after a receipt of a violation notice shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 05-05-003, 6-21-2005)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-6: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
11-1-7: Administration
11-1-8: Development Permit
11-1-9: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
11-1-10: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Wyoming has delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-
1989)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Guernsey are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood height or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
   AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of the community on which
the federal emergency management agency has delineated areas of special flood
hazard designated as zone A.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. This term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a
site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
1. Before the improvement or repair started, or
2. If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not, however, include either:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-6: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the town of Guernsey.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in
its flood hazard boundary map (FHBM), dated November 12, 1976, or current
revision, is adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter. The
FHBM is on file at state of Wyoming emergency management office.
   C.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administrative Authority: The town clerk-treasurer is hereby appointed
to administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development
permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of Town Clerk-Treasurer: Duties of the town
clerk-treasurer shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this chapter, "adversely affects"
means damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed
to physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
            (1)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
            (2)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., certification by a registered professional
engineer in the state of Wyoming) for the proposed development shall be
required. (Ord. 09-24-013, 10-1-2013)
            (3)   If the proposed development is a building, then the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in subsection 11-1-6B of this chapter, the town clerk-treasurer
shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source as criteria for
requiring that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development
in zone A are administered in accordance with subsection 11-1-9B of this
chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection
11-1-8B3 of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the EMO prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit any evidence of such notification to
the federal emergency management agency.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FHBM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-8: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained before
construction or development begins within any area of special flood hazard
established in subsection
11-1-6B of this chapter.
   B.   Application: Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the town clerk-treasurer and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      2.   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any structure has
been floodproofed; (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect in
the state of Wyoming that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential
structure meet the floodproofing criteria in subsection
11-1-9B of this chapter; and (Ord. 09-25-013, 10-1-2013)
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
11-1-9: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
and capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
         b.   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
            (1)   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners
of the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring
one additional tie per side;
            (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
(5) additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes
less than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
            (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
            (4)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is less.
      5.   Encroachments: Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood evaluation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
11-1-9B2 of this chapter, the following standards are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
in the state of Wyoming that the design and methods of construction are in
accordance with accepted standard of practice for meeting the provisions of
this section. Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set
forth in subsection
11-1-7B3b of this chapter. (Ord. 09-26-013, 10-1-2013)
11-1-10: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of town of Guernsey, any officer or employee thereof, or
the federal emergency management agency for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 89-03-30/4, 5-1-1989)
 
