TOWN CODE of
LINGLE
WYOMING
2002
Code current through:
Ord. 374, passed May 21, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Town of Lingle, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 374, passed May 21, 2025. Ordinances of the Town adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 274
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE LINGLE, WYOMING, TOWN CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and town council of the town of Lingle, Wyoming,
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town
code of the town of Lingle, Wyoming, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the town, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official town code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the town clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official town
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official town code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED at a regular council meeting of the Lingle town council on
first reading by the affirmative vote of Mayor Siglin and      council members
on the 18th day of September 2002.
SEAL:
ATTEST:
                                                                                                             
Clerk\Treasurer David W. Kendall       Mayor George Siglin
   PASSED AND APPROVED at a regular council meeting of the Lingle town council
on this second reading by the affirmative vote of Mayor Siglin and      council
members, this 9th day of October 2002.
SEAL:
 
 
ATTEST:
 
                                                                                                             
Clerk\Treasurer David W. Kendall       Mayor George Siglin
   PASSED AND APPROVED at a regular council meeting of the Lingle town council
on the third and final reading and ordered published by the affirmative vote of
Mayor Siglin and      council members this 23rd day of October 2002.
SEAL:
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
                                                                                                             
Clerk\Treasurer David W. Kendall       Mayor George Siglin
Ordinance no. 274 passed, approved and proclaimed effective by Mayor Siglin on
the 23rd day of October 2002.
I, David W. Kendall, clerk/treasurer of the town of Lingle, Wyoming, do hereby
certify that the above and foregoing ordinance no. 274 is a true and correct
copy of the ordinance introduced, read by title and finally passed at the
regular council meeting held 23 October 2002 and published thereafter, by
title, in the Lingle Guide on the 29th day of October 2002.
                                                 
Clerk/Treasurer David W. Kendall
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE 1
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxxviii).
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this town code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Lingle. This town code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the LINGLE TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal document. (2002 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the town clerk-treasurer. Said code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the city and shall be returned to the office of the town clerk-treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the town council. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this town
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
town; and all special ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The town council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
town code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The municipal code of the town of Lingle.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day unless the last day
is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case the period shall run
until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the town council of the town of Lingle.
COUNTY: Goshen County, in the state of Wyoming, in which the town of Lingle is
located.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Lingle".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
GOVERNING BODY: The elected legislative body of the municipality.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The town of Lingle.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" are
equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Lingle".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but also any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint
tenant of the whole or part of such building of land and shall include any
agent of such owner, and where such owner is a body corporate, it shall include
the managing agent or officer within the town of Lingle.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL: Mandatory.
STATE: The state of Wyoming.
STREET: Means and includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways,
roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all
other public thoroughfares in the town of Lingle.
TENANT; OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TOWN: The town of Lingle, county of Goshen, state of Wyoming.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes printing, lithographing or modes of representing
words and letters; provided, that in all cases where the written signature of a
person is required, the proper handwriting of such person, or his mark, shall
be required.
YEAR: A calendar year. (2002 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty; Remedies Generally: Whenever in this code or in any
ordinance, resolution or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the
town of Lingle under authority vested in him by law or ordinance, any act is
prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or the
doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any such
ordinance, resolution or regulation shall be punished by a fine of not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or imprisonment not exceeding six
(6) months, or both; provided, however, that the imposition of any such fine
shall not bar institution of appropriate legal actions or proceedings by the
town to restrain, correct or abate the violation nor shall the institution of
such legal actions or proceedings be deemed a bar to the imposition of such
fine.
   B.   Continuing Violations: Except as otherwise provided, each day any
violation of this code or any such ordinance, resolution or regulation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Court Costs: Upon conviction of a violation of this code or any
ordinance, resolution or regulation, the municipal judge shall assess court
costs not exceeding ten dollars ($10.00), plus a court automation fee of ten
dollars ($10.00), which shall be paid by the person or persons convicted of
such violation. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 5-6-301, 6-10-103, 15-1-103(a)(xli), and 6-10-105.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter, unless otherwise provided, shall
be applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this town code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this town code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (2002 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the town council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TOWN COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition
1-5-2: Election; Term
1-5-3: Oath
1-5-4: Compensation
1-5-5: Meetings
1-5-6: Quorum
1-5-7: Mayor To Preside
1-5-8: Attendance At Meetings
1-5-9: Vacancies
1-5-10: Proceedings Of The Council
1-5-11: Committees
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103.
1-5-1: COMPOSITION 1 :
The town council shall be composed of a mayor and four (4) council members.
(2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 15-2-102.
1-5-2: ELECTION; TERM 1 :
The term of office of mayor is two (2) years and the term of office of a
council member is four (4) years, and until his successor is qualified. The
mayor and council members are elected at large. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. WS § 15-11-102.
1-5-3: OATH:
Before entering his duties, a person elected to a town office shall sign and
file with the town clerk-treasurer the same constitutional oath of office as
county officers. (2002 Code)
1-5-4: COMPENSATION 1 :
   A.   Mayor: The mayor of the town of Lingle shall receive an annual salary
in an amount as determined from time to time by the governing body, by
resolution, payable in twelve (12) or more installments and not exceeding the
maximum allowed by law.
   B.   Council Members: The council members of the town of Lingle shall
receive a salary for actual attendance at each regular or special meeting, in
an amount as determined from time to time by the governing body, by resolution;
such salaries to be no less than the minimum allowed by law and no more than
the maximum allowed by law.
   C.   Fixed Prior To Term: Salaries for the mayor and council members shall
be fixed before their terms begin and shall not change during the term for
which they are elected. (Ord. 226, 7-1-1992)
 
Notes
1 4. WS § 15-2-103.
1-5-5: MEETINGS 1 :
   A.   Regular Meetings: The town council shall hold regular meetings on the
first Wednesday following the first Monday of each month and on the third
Wednesday following the first Monday of each month at the hour designated by
the council; provided however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting
of the council falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or national
holiday, such meeting will either be canceled or rescheduled by the council at
a time of their choosing. All regular meetings of the town council shall be
held at the town hall in Lingle, Wyoming. (Ord. 294, 8-23-2006, eff. 8-23-2006)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor shall call a special meeting of the council
whenever in his opinion the public business may require it, or at the express
written request of any two (2) members of the council. Whenever a special
meeting shall be called, a notice, in writing, signed by the mayor or the
presiding officer of the council shall be served upon each member of the
council either in person or by notice left at his place of residence, stating
the date and hour of the meeting and the purpose for which said meeting is
called. No business shall be transacted except such as is stated in the notice;
provided, however, that any special meeting at which all of the members of the
council and the mayor are in attendance shall be deemed to be valid and regular
for all purposes despite the irregularity, or absence, of notice as herein
provided. (Ord. 173, 8-6-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-105.
1-5-6: QUORUM:
A majority of all the members elected to the council shall constitute a quorum
at any regular or special meeting of the council. In the absence of a quorum,
the council members and the mayor or presiding officer present may adjourn such
meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be in attendance. (Ord. 173, 8-
6-1981)
1-5-7: MAYOR TO PRESIDE:
   A.   Preside At Meetings; Vote: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of
the town council and shall be entitled to one vote on all questions and no
more.
   B.   Absence Of Mayor Or Clerk-Treasurer: In the absence of the mayor, the
council members shall appoint one of their own number to preside. In the
absence of the town clerk-treasurer, the council members shall have power to
appoint a clerk-treasurer pro tempore. (2002 Code)
1-5-8: ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
   A.   Required: It shall be the duty of the duly elected council members or
their successors to attend council meetings. The attendance of any member of
the town council, who shall be absent from any meetings from said council
without reasonable excuse therefor, may be compelled by order of the town
council. Two (2) members of the council shall be sufficient to make such order.
(2002 Code)
   B.   Removal For Nonattendance: It shall be the duty of the police officer
to execute such order and bring such absentee before the town council. Gross
and persistent delinquency in being absent from such meetings shall be cause
for removal of any such member from his office. (2002 Code)
1-5-9: VACANCIES:
   A.   Elected Officials:
      1.   Any vacancy that exists in the office of mayor or council member in
the event of removal from the town, conviction of a felony, death, resignation
or any other reason specified in the Wyoming Statutes. If a vacancy occurs, the
governing body shall appoint an eligible person to the office who shall serve
until his or her successor is elected at the next general municipal election
and qualified. A vacancy in the office of the mayor shall be filled only from
the membership of the governing body.
      2.   All applications shall be submitted to the mayor, or in the absence
of the mayor, the town clerk.
      3.   Vacancies expected to the last less than two (2) months/four (4)
meetings, the town council may appoint an eligible person without public
notification.
      4.   The town council shall advertise vacancies at Town Hall, town
website, Lingle Community Center, Senior Center, Points West Bank and the town
Facebook page for ten (10) business days. Town council may review such
applications and interview any or all applicants in a closed work session or
sessions; however, the voting for the filling of such vacancy shall be
conducted in an open session and ratified at the same or next town council
meeting.
   B.   Appointed Officials:
      1.   Vacancies in appointive officials shall be filled in the manner
provided for initial appointment. (2002 Code; amd. Ord. 371, 6-5-2024)
1-5-10: PROCEEDINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Order Of Business:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The order of business at all regular meetings of
the council shall be as follows unless otherwise directed by special order of
the council entered of record:
         a.   Call to order and Pledge of Allegiance.
         b.   Approval of agenda.
         c.   Approval of minutes of previous session.
         d.   Authorizing payment of bills.
         e.   Public comments.
         f.   Department head reports.
         g.   Unfinished business.
         h.   Ordinances or resolutions.
         i.   New business.
         j.   Appointments.
         k.   Correspondence.
         l.   Mayor items.
         m.   Legal items.
         n.   Council items.
         o.   Executive session (when required).
         p.   Adjournment.
      2.   Special Meetings: The order of business at special meetings shall be
the same as at regular meetings.
      3.   Questions Of Priority: All questions of priority of business shall
be decided by the mayor or other presiding officer without debate.
   B.   Precedence In Order Of Business: When a question is under debate, no
motion shall be received except to adjourn, to table the previous question, to
postpone to a certain day, to commit, to amend, to postpone indefinitely. These
motions shall have precedence in the order in which they are arranged.
   C.   Amendment Or Suspension Of Order Of Business Or Rules: The foregoing
rules and order of business may be amended or suspended at any meeting only by
two-thirds (2/3) of all the members elected to the town council, including the
mayor. All other bylaws, ordinances or parts of ordinances may be passed at any
regular or special meeting called for that purpose by a majority of the quorum.
   D.   Presentation Of Bills; Approval: All bills for labor or material shall
be itemized giving the day and date that such labor was performed or material
bought. All bills shall be approved by the officers or committee authorizing
the expenditure and the finance committee before the same shall be acted upon
by the town council. (2002 Code)
1-5-11: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Appointment: All committees shall be appointed by the mayor or, in his
absence by the presiding officer, at a meeting of the town council, to any of
which committees the council may refer business for transactions in the line
for which any such committee shall have been appointed. The standing committees
shall be appointed annually and shall consist of two (2) members of the
council. The mayor shall be an ex officio member of all standing committees.
Select committee appointments shall expire on the completion of the object for
which they were appointed.
   B.   Reports: Committees shall report, in writing, when so ordered by the
mayor. All reports shall be addressed to the town council of the town of
Lingle. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment
1-6-2: Oath
1-6-3: Bond
1-6-4: Term
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-6: Personnel Policy
1-6-7: Officers Elected And Term Of Office
1-6-8: Nominations To Be By Application, Filing Fee, Etc.
1-6-9: Commencement Of Term
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT:
Within a reasonable time following his election and qualification, the mayor
shall appoint a municipal judge, police officer, town clerk-treasurer, town
attorney, and town supervisor. Such appointments shall be made with the advice
and consent of the town council. Such appointed officers shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor or until their successor is duly appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 234, 7-4-1994)
1-6-2: OATH:
The above named appointive officers shall, before their commission shall be
issued to them, take the oath required of county officers to which shall be
added the obligation to faithfully perform the duties of his office. (Ord. 171,
8-5-1981)
1-6-3: BOND:
Each of such officers, except the town clerk-treasurer and deputy clerk-
treasurer, shall give bond to the town of Lingle in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned for the faithful performance of the
duties of their office and to account to the town clerk-treasurer and deputy
clerk-treasurer for all monies of the town which may come into their hands by
virtue of such office, and to deliver to their successor or successors in
office all records and property of the town which shall come into their
control. The town clerk-treasurer and deputy clerk-treasurer shall give surety
bond to the town of Lingle for the faithful performance of their duties in the
penal sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of their office and the faithful accounting to their
successor in office for all funds of said town which may come into their hands
by virtue of their said office. (Ord. 171, 8-5-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-4: TERM:
The appointive officers shall hold their office until the second Tuesday in May
following their appointment and qualification and until their successors are
appointed and qualified as provided by law and the ordinances of the town or
until earlier removed from office. (Ord. 171, 8-5-1981)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
The salaries of the municipal judge, the police officer, the town clerk-
treasurer, and the town supervisor shall be as provided from time to time by
the town council, and shall be payable monthly or at lesser intervals. (Ord.
235, 7-6-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-6: PERSONNEL POLICY:
   A.   Adoption: A certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in
the office of the town clerk-treasurer, being marked and designated as "Town Of
Lingle Personnel Policy", is hereby adopted, as amended from time to time by
the governing body, as the personnel policy of the town of Lingle.
   B.   Availability:
      1.   Interested Persons: The town clerk-treasurer shall keep on file in
his office at least two (2) copies of the personnel policy in its most current
approved form where the same shall be subject to examination by any interested
person during normal business hours. Any interested person not a permanent
employee of the town may obtain a copy of the personnel policy upon payment of
the charge set therefor by the town clerk-treasurer from time to time.
      2.   Current Employees: Each current employee of the town shall obtain a
copy of the personnel policy without charge. (Ord. 227, 7-1-1992; amd. 2002
Code)
1-6-7: OFFICERS ELECTED AND TERM OF OFFICE:
A Mayor and two Councilmen shall be elected on the second Tuesday in May of an
even numbered year for a term of four (4) years. Two years thereafter two
Councilmen shall be elected on the second Tuesday in May for a term of four (4)
years. (Ord. 360, 4-20-2022)
1-6-8: NOMINATIONS TO BE BY APPLICATION, FILING FEE, ETC:
Nominations for Municipal Office will be conducted entirely in person by the
applicant in the Lingle Town Office during business hours. This will include
procurement and return of the application and payment of the non-refundable
application fee. Requests/submissions for/of electronic, online, or any other
means of application will not be accepted. (Ord. 360, 4-20-2022)
1-6-9: COMMENCEMENT OF TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office for persons elected at the town election commences after
accepting the position elected to and being duly sworn in at the first
scheduled regular Council Meeting in June following the election. (Ord. 360, 4-
20-2022)
ARTICLE A. TOWN ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Appointment; Duties
1-6A-2: Qualifications
1-6A-3: Compensation
1-6A-4: Deputies
1-6A-1: APPOINTMENT; DUTIES:
Within a reasonable time following his election and qualification, the mayor
shall appoint a town attorney to appear and prosecute for and defend the town
in all cases in which it is a party and to render such other professional
services as may be required of him by the mayor, council and ordinances of the
town. Such appointment shall be made by the mayor only by and with the advice
and consent of the town council. (Ord. 138, 7-7-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6A-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The town attorney shall be an attorney duly admitted and authorized to practice
in the courts of the state of Wyoming and shall be a resident of Goshen County,
Wyoming. (Ord. 138, 7-7-1977)
1-6A-3: COMPENSATION:
The town attorney shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council
shall fix and shall be commensurate with the qualifications of the person
appointed and the duties of the office. (Ord. 138, 7-7-1977)
1-6A-4: DEPUTIES:
The town attorney is hereby authorized to appoint and to delegate his powers
and authority to one or more deputies who shall also be qualified as provided
under section
1-6A-2 of this article. (Ord. 138, 7-7-1977)
CHAPTER 7
CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Ordinances
1-7-2: Corporate Seal
1-7-3: Official Newspaper
1-7-4: Claims Against Town
1-7-1: ORDINANCES 1 :
   A.   Enactments Of Law: All enactments of law by the town council intended
for the guidance or government of persons or property within the town or the
officers of said town shall be by ordinance.
   B.   Proposed Ordinance: Any proposed ordinance may be presented at any
meeting of the town council and shall be presented in writing, bear the
signature of the council member proposing the same and shall be read at length
by the town clerk-treasurer at the meeting at which the same is introduced.
   C.   Passage; Emergency Ordinance: No ordinance shall be finally passed and
adopted by the town council except at a regular meeting following the meeting
at which the same is introduced; provided, however, that by a vote of any four
(4) out of five (5) members of the council, the provisions of this section may
be suspended and an emergency declared and an ordinance finally passed and
adopted at the meeting at which it is introduced, but in that event, the
proposed ordinance shall recite the emergency which is the occasion for
suspending the provisions of this section.
   D.   Roll Call: On the passage of any bylaws, ordinance or resolution, a
roll call shall be had and the "ayes" and "nays" shall be taken and entered on
the journal. (Ord. 1, 9-23-1918)
   E.   Publication And Posting: Except in case of emergency as provided in
subsection C of this section, every ordinance shall be published in the
official newspaper 2  and by posting certified copies thereof in three (3)
public places in the town of Lingle for at least ten (10) days before the same
shall take effect.
   F.   Signing And Recording: All ordinances passed and adopted by the town
council shall, within ten (10) days after the passage thereof, be signed by the
mayor and attested by the town clerk- treasurer and be recorded in a book kept
for that purpose. No ordinance of the town shall be capable of being enforced
until the same shall have been recorded and signed as herein provided. (Ord. 1,
9-23-1918; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 15-1-103(a)(xli), 15-1-110, and 15-1-114 et seq.
2 2. See section 1-7-3 of this chapter.
1-7-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The town seal of the town of Lingle shall consist of the
impression of two (2) concentric circles; between the circles shall appear the
words "Town of Lingle, Wyoming" and within the inner circle which shall be one
and one-quarter inches (11/4") in diameter, shall appear the words "Corporate
Seal".
   B.   Custodian: The town's seal shall at all times remain in the care and
custody and control of the town clerk-treasurer who shall be responsible
therefor for its use or for its misuse upon his official bond. (Ord. 10, 10-2-
1918; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7-3: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The "Lingle Guide" is hereby designated as the official newspaper of the town
of Lingle. (2002 Code)
1-7-4: CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN:
   A.   Presented To Council: All claims and demands against the town shall be
presented to the town council, in writing, with a full itemized account of the
items and certified to under penalty of perjury, showing the same as correct,
reasonable and just. No claim or demand shall be audited or allowed unless
presented and certified as provided in this section. The town officers who
shall issue or pay any warrant drawn in payment of a claim not so presented and
certified shall be liable on their official bond for the amount of such warrant
so drawn and paid as aforesaid.
   B.   Issuance Of Warrant: Upon an allowance of any claim or demand in the
manner required by subsection A of this section, the town clerk-treasurer shall
draw a warrant upon the town treasury for the amount therefor, which warrant
shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the town clerk-treasurer with the
corporate seal.
   C.   Payment: Upon presentation of any such warrant to the town clerk-
treasurer, he shall pay the same; provided, that if there is not sufficient
money in the treasury to pay the same, he shall endorse thereon that the same
has been presented for payment stating the date of presentation and that the
same has not been paid for want of funds and thereafter such warrant shall draw
interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum. (Ord. 108, 6-1971)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Created
1-8-2: Judge
1-8-3: Procedure
1-8-4: Fees
1-8-5: Court Costs
1-8-6: Process
1-8-7: Appeals To District Court
1-8-8: Failure To Appear For Arraignments And Trials In Municipal Court
1-8-1: CREATED 1 :
There is hereby created and established in the town of Lingle, Goshen County,
Wyoming, a municipal court. (Ord. 109, 6-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 5-6-101.
1-8-2: JUDGE 1 :
   A.   Number Of Judges: There shall be one judge of such municipal court to
be styled municipal judge.
   B.   Qualifications; Appointment 2 : The municipal judge shall possess the
qualifications and be appointed and qualified in the manner provided in section
1-6-1 of this title.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The judge shall have jurisdiction of offenses arising
under the ordinances of the town.
   D.   Administration Of Oaths: The municipal judge shall have power and
authority to administer oaths in any case where a justice of the peace may
administer an oath in like cases arising under the statutes, practice and
procedure in criminal matters and trials in justice court. (Ord. 109, 6-1971)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 5-6-102.
2 3. WS § 5-6-103.
1-8-3: PROCEDURE 1 :
The procedure of municipal court shall conform to the procedure provided by law
and rules of procedure for courts of limited jurisdiction. The town may, by
ordinance, provide any additional rules of procedure found necessary for the
proper conduct of the municipal court, provided these rules do not conflict
with the general laws of the state. Appeals to the district court shall be
allowed in all cases as now provided by law for appeals from justices of the
peace. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. WS § 5-6-106.
1-8-4: FEES:
The fees in all trials had in the municipal court shall be the same as those
now provided by law or which may from time to time be provided by law of the
state of Wyoming for similar services in the courts of justices of the peace,
and all such fees shall be charged by the officers rendering the services and
taxed as costs in the case. (Ord. 109, 6-1971)
1-8-5: COURT COSTS 1 :
The costs in all trials before the municipal judge shall be the same as those
now provided by law, or which may from time to time be provided by law, of the
state of Wyoming for similar services in the courts of the justices of the
peace. All costs collected by said municipal judge shall be turned in to the
town clerk- treasurer. (Ord. 109, 6-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 5-6-108.
1-8-6: PROCESS:
   A.   Style: The style of all process issued out of the municipal court shall
be "State of Wyoming, County of Goshen, Town of Lingle". All complaints filed
in said courts shall conclude "Contrary to the ordinances in such case made and
provided and against the peace and dignity of the State of Wyoming".
   B.   Complaint Required: All process issued out of said court shall be under
the hand of the municipal judge, and no warrant for the arrest of any person
shall issue from such court unless there first be filed in said court a
complaint, in writing, under oath, charging a crime complained of and the name
of the party or parties complained of with reasonable certainty.
   C.   Service: All process shall be directed to the sheriff or any constable
of the county of Goshen or the police officer, and the sheriff or any constable
of the county of Goshen shall receive for serving such process the same fees or
compensation as is provided by law in the state of Wyoming for similar services
in the courts of justices of the peace. (Ord. 109, 6-1971)
1-8-7: APPEALS TO DISTRICT COURT:
In addition to all other methods heretofore provided by law, an appeal from the
judgment or sentence of the municipal judge may be taken to the district court
in the same manner as is now provided by law for appeals from justice courts in
criminal cases, and shall be dealt with by the courts as criminal cases. (2002
Code)
1-8-8: FAILURE TO APPEAR FOR ARRAIGNMENTS AND TRIALS IN MUNICIPAL COURT:
   A.    It shall be unlawful for any person to violate their written promise
and fail to appear via signing a citation issued to them by a law enforcement
officer, code officer or authorized agent of the Town of Lingle requiring the
individual to appear in municipal court on a certain date at a certain time.
   B.    It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to appear at any trial or
hearing which has been scheduled and notice provided to the individual, whether
personally, verbally or via writing mailed to their last known address.
   C.   The municipal court shall have the authority to issue a warrant for any
individual that fails to appear for an arraignment or a trial in municipal
court. Upon conviction for failing to appear under this section, the municipal
court shall fine said individual in a sum not to exceed seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) together with ten dollars ($10.00) court costs. (Ord. 355, 6-
9-2021)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Authority
1-9-2: Conduct Of Elections
1-9-3: Officers Elected; Term
1-9-4: Notice Of Election
1-9-5: Nominations; Fee
1-9-6: Election; Polling Places; Hours
1-9-7: Precinct Officials
1-9-8: Canvassing Board
1-9-9: Election Duties Of Town Clerk-Treasurer
1-9-10: Expenses Of Election
1-9-11: Qualification Of Officers
1-9-12: Canvassing Results; Tie Vote
1-9-13: Certificate Of Election
1-9-14: Commencement Of Term
1-9-15: Constitutional Oath
1-9-16: Wyoming Election Code
 
Notes
1 1. WS title 22, chapter 23.
1-9-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority vested in cities and towns of the
state of Wyoming by article 13, section 1, of Wyoming constitution, and Wyoming
Statutes section 22-23-101 et seq., and section 22-23-201 et seq., as amended.
(Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-2: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
The town council hereby elects to conduct elections pursuant to the terms of
this chapter and not in the same manner as statewide elections. (Charter Ord.
245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-3: OFFICERS ELECTED; TERM:
A mayor and two (2) council members shall be elected on the second Tuesday in
May of an even numbered year for a term of four (4) years. Two (2) years
thereafter two (2) council members shall be elected on the second Tuesday in
May for a term of four (4) years. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996; amd. Ord. 360,
4-20- 2022)
1-9-4: NOTICE OF ELECTION:
Between sixty five (65) and fifty five (55) days before each town election, the
town clerk-treasurer shall publish once in the official newspaper of general
circulation in the town and post conspicuously in not less than three (3)
public places in the town a proclamation setting forth the date of the
forthcoming election, the titles and terms of the offices to be filled at the
election, the number of persons required by law to fill the offices, the
requirements for filing statements of campaign receipts and expenditures; and,
in addition, before the election, the legislative description of each proposed
ballot proposition submitted to the voters of the town. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-
1996; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-5: NOMINATIONS; FEE:
   A.   Application: Not more than sixty (60) days nor less than forty (40)
days preceding the town election, each candidate for a town office shall pay a
filing fee as specified by Wyoming Statutes section 22-23-302 and sign and file
with the town clerk-treasurer an application in substantially the following
form:
      STATE OF WYOMING   )
                  ) SS
      TOWN OF LINGLE      )
 
I,                               , the undersigned being             years of
age, a qualified elector of the town of Lingle and the state of Wyoming, do
hereby petition and request that my name be printed upon the official ballot at
the next town election as a candidate for the office of                 . I
hereby declare that if nominated and elected I will qualify for the office.
   Dated:                       
                                                     
                  Signature of Candidate
                                                     
                  Residence Address
   B.   Vacancies In Nomination: A vacancy in nomination for a town office to
be filled at town election occurs if, at the time of the town election, there
are no nomination applications for the office of mayor or there are less than
two (2) nomination applications for council member. A vacancy in nomination
shall be filled by the town council.
   C.   Nominations for municipal office will be conducted entirely in person
by the applicant in the Lingle Town Office during business hours. This will
include procurement and return of the application and payment of the non-
refundable application fee. Requests/submissions for/of electronic, online, or
any other means of application will not be accepted. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-
1996; amd. Ord. 360, 4-20-2022)
1-9-6: ELECTION; POLLING PLACES; HOURS:
All regular municipal elections shall be held in the town of Lingle on the
Tuesday next following the first Monday in the month of May every two (2) years
at polling places designated by the town clerk as hereinafter provided. Polls
shall be open at nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and close at seven o’clock (7:00)
P.M. on election day. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996; amd. Ord. 372, 6-19-2024)
1-9-7: PRECINCT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Appointment: Prior to the date of the election, the town council, by
resolution, shall appoint judges of election and may, based upon the same
criteria applied in the case of statewide elections, appoint a counting board
from a list submitted by the town clerk-treasurer of registered electors
residing in the town who are willing to serve as judges of election or as
members of the counting board.
   B.   Number; Compensation: The number of judges and members of the counting
board to be appointed and their compensation shall be the same as provided for
election judges and members of counting boards in precincts with a similar
number of voters in statewide elections.
   C.   Oath: The judges of election and members of the counting board shall
take and subscribe to the same oath required to be subscribed to by election
officials in statewide elections. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-8: CANVASSING BOARD:
   A.   Composition: The town canvassing board is the town clerk- treasurer and
two (2) electors of different political parties resident in the town appointed
by the town council.
   B.   Compensation: The two (2) electors shall receive the same compensation
as election judges for statewide elections. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-9: ELECTION DUTIES OF TOWN CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Determine Qualifications: The town clerk-treasurer shall determine if a
person seeking nomination is a qualified candidate as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Prepare Ballots: The town clerk-treasurer shall prepare the ballots in
substantially the same form as the general election nonpartisan ballot. The
name of every candidate legally qualified to appear on the ballot and all town
ballot propositions to be voted on at the election shall be printed thereon.
(Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
   C.   Designate Polling Places: The town clerk-treasurer shall designate
polling places and shall publish their location at least once in the official
newspaper of general circulation in the town within two (2) weeks prior to the
election.
   D.   Conduct Elections: The town clerk-treasurer shall otherwise be
responsible for conducting elections held under this chapter. (Charter Ord.
245, 5-8-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-10: EXPENSES OF ELECTION:
The town shall bear the entire expense of any election held pursuant to this
chapter. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-11: QUALIFICATION OF OFFICERS:
No person shall be nominated, elected, or permitted to serve as mayor or
council member of the town unless he or she be a qualified elector of the town.
(Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-12: CANVASSING RESULTS; TIE VOTE:
   A.   Canvassing Returns: The returns of the town election shall be canvassed
by the town canvassing board, which shall certify the results, in writing, to
the town clerk-treasurer.
   B.   Tie Vote: A tie vote shall be broken by lot cast by the town canvassing
board. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-13: CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION:
As soon as the official result of the general election is received from the
town canvassing board, the town clerk-treasurer shall issue certificates of
election to the persons receiving the highest number of votes for each office
to be filled at the election. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-14: COMMENCEMENT OF TERM:
The term of office for persons elected at the town election commences after
accepting the position elected to and being duly sworn in at the first
scheduled regular council meeting in June following the election. (Charter Ord.
245, 5-8-1996; amd. Ord. 360, 4-20-2022)
1-9-15: CONSTITUTIONAL OATH:
Before entering his duties, a person elected to a town office shall sign and
file with the town clerk-treasurer the same constitutional oath of office as
county officers. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
1-9-16: WYOMING ELECTION CODE:
Except as expressly provided by this chapter, all other matters with respect to
elections for town officers or for ballot propositions of the town of Lingle
shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Wyoming election code and any
amendments, modifications or revisions thereof. (Charter Ord. 245, 5-8-1996)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL 1
SECTION:
2-1-1: Open Container
2-1-2: Prohibited Sales
2-1-3: Minors
2-1-4: Transportation Or Possession With Intent To Furnish To Minor
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103(a)(xiii) and (xv).
1 1. WS § 12-4-101 et seq.
2-1-1: OPEN CONTAINER:
   A.   Definition: "Open container" is defined as any glass, cup, bottle, can
or other receptacle used for drinking which is not sealed or capped.
   B.   Possession:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess alcoholic
or alcoholic malt beverages in an open container on any street, alley, public
way, sidewalk or public parking lot.
      2.   Exception: Exceptions to this section may only be granted by the
town council after first receiving written application for such variance with a
subsequent hearing held prior to approval or disapproval.
   C.   Sale Or Dispensing Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell or dispense alcoholic or malt beverages in open containers from the
licensed facilities used to serve customers for off premises consumption,
commonly referred to as "drive up window".
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section is prohibited and declared to be a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
2-1-2: PROHIBITED SALES:
Every licensee or his servant or employee who sells, gives or delivers
alcoholic liquor or malt beverages to an obviously intoxicated person or any
incompetent person or permits any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to enter or remain in the licensed room or rooms where intoxicating liquor or
malt beverages are dispensed is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 242, 6-21-1995;
amd. 2002 Code)
2-1-3: MINORS:
   A.   Sell, Furnish Or Give: Any person who sells, furnishes, gives or causes
to be sold, furnished or given away any alcoholic liquor or malt beverage to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, who is not his legal ward,
medical patient or member of his own immediate family, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Possession; Public Drunkenness; Exception: Any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years who has any alcoholic or malt beverage in his possession
or who is drunk or under the influence of alcoholic liquor, malt beverages or a
controlled substance on any street or highway or in any public place is guilty
of a misdemeanor. This subsection does not apply to possession of alcoholic or
malt beverages by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years:
      1.   When making a delivery of alcoholic or malt beverages pursuant to
his employment;
      2.   Who is in the physical presence of his parent or legal guardian;
      3.   Who is a licensee under this chapter; or
      4.   When serving alcoholic or malt beverages pursuant to his employment
in a restaurant which holds a license to serve alcoholic or malt beverages, if
the person is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Falsification Of Identification: Any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years who attempts in any manner to purchase alcoholic or malt beverages
or who falsifies any identification or uses any false identification in order
to obtain alcoholic or malt beverages is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section, or aids, abets or
incites any violation hereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   E.   Prima Facie Evidence: A motor vehicle driver's license, a registration
certificate issued under the federal military selective service act, an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces, an internationally
accepted passport document with a discernible date of birth and photograph or
an identification card issued by the department of transportation is prima
facie evidence of the age and identity of a person. Proof that a licensee or
his employee or agent demanded, was shown and acted in reasonable reliance upon
the information contained in any one of the above documents as identification
is a defense to any criminal prosecution or action for the suspension or
revocation of a license. (2002 Code)
2-1-4: TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO FURNISH TO MINOR 1 :
No person twenty one (21) years of age or older shall transport or have in his
possession or control any alcoholic or malt beverage with the intent of
furnishing the same to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years of
age. (Ord. 215, 6-21-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 12-6-102.
ARTICLE A. RETAIL LIQUOR STORES AND RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
2-1A-1: Possession And Sale Restricted
2-1A-2: Application And Issuance Of Retail And Restaurant Liquor And Malt
Beverage License
2-1A-3: License Fee
2-1A-4: Hours Of Operation
2-1A-5: Inspections
2-1A-6: Power To Maintain Order
2-1A-1: POSSESSION AND SALE RESTRICTED:
The possession or sale of alcoholic and/or malt beverages for use or
consumption is hereby prohibited in the town except the possession or sale
thereof in conformity with the provisions of title 12 of the Wyoming Statutes
and acts hereafter enacted amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto. (Ord.
48, 4-1-1935; amd. 2002 Code)
2-1A-2: APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF RETAIL AND RESTAURANT LIQUOR AND MALT
BEVERAGE LICENSE:
The application for and issuance of retail and restaurant liquor and malt
beverage licenses shall be governed by the applicable provisions contained in
Wyoming Statutes sections 12-4-101 through 12-4-106, section 12-4-201, and
sections 12-4-407 through 12-4-411 (Lexis 2001), and subsequent state laws and
amendments thereto. (2002 Code)
2-1A-3: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Every person licensed by the town council as a retail liquor or retail
malt beverage dealer under the provisions of this article shall pay an annual
fee, in advance, for a license as a retail and restaurant liquor or malt
beverage dealer the sum of nine hundred fifty dollars ($950.00). (Ord. 48, 4-1-
1935; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 285, 11-3-2004, eff. 11-3-2004; Ord. 373, 5-21-2025,
eff. 5-21-2025)
   B.   When a liquor license is transferred, a transfer fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) will be assessed. (Ord. 285, 11-3-2004, eff. 11-3-2004)
2-1A-4: HOURS OF OPERATION 1 :
Every retail liquor dealer licensed under this article, shall close his place
of business and cease the sale of both alcoholic and malt liquors prior to or
promptly at the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. each day of the week and have
all patrons removed from the business premises within thirty (30) minutes after
closing, and shall not open such place of business before six o’clock (6:00)
A.M. on any day, and shall keep such place of business entirely closed all day
every Sunday following two o’clock (2:00) A.M., except that such places may
open Sunday between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:
00) P.M. All retail businesses issued a retail or restaurant liquor dealer
license by the Town of Lingle are required to be open for business to the
general public a minimum of thirty (30) hours per week. The Town realizes
exceptions may occur (e.g. vacations, sickness) and will be heard on a case by
case basis. (Ord. 345, 2-19-2020; Ord. 349, 9-9-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 12-5-101.
2-1A-5: INSPECTIONS:
The mayor and the members of the town council may enter said places of business
at any time during business hours to inspect the same and to ascertain whether
or not said licensees are complying with the provisions of this article and
state statutes. (Ord. 48, 4-1-1935; amd. 2002 Code)
2-1A-6: POWER TO MAINTAIN ORDER:
The police officer of the town is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to
maintain order in the place of business of any and all retail liquor dealers
licensed under the provisions of this article and may enter said places of
business at any time for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 48, 4-1-1935)
ARTICLE B. CATERING OR MALT BEVERAGE PERMIT
SECTION:
2-1B-1: Malt Beverage Permit
2-1B-2: Catering Permit
2-1B-3: Application
2-1B-4: Fee
2-1B-5: Deposit For Cleanup
2-1B-6: Appearance Before Council
2-1B-7: Term
2-1B-8: Number Of Permits Restricted; Exception
2-1B-1: MALT BEVERAGE PERMIT:
The town council may issue a malt beverage permit authorizing the sale of malt
beverages to any responsible person or organization for sales at a picnic,
bazaar, fair, rodeo, special holiday or similar public gathering. No person or
organization holding the special permit shall sell any alcoholic liquor other
than malt beverages on the premises described on the permit, nor shall any malt
beverage be sold or consumed off the premises authorized by the permit. (Ord.
248, 9-18-1996)
2-1B-2: CATERING PERMIT:
The town council may issue a catering permit authorizing the sale of alcoholic
and malt beverages to any person holding a retail liquor license authorizing
the off premises sale of both alcoholic and malt beverages for sales at
meetings, conventions, private parties and dinners or at other similar
gatherings not capable of being held within the licensee's licensed premises.
No licensee holding a catering permit shall sell or permit consumption of any
alcoholic or malt beverage off the premises described in the permit. Closed
container items sold at auction for the benefit of a nonprofit organization may
be taken off premises. (Ord. 248, 9-18-1996)
2-1B-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: Individuals or organizations may apply for a malt beverage or
catering permit by completing an application form approved by the town council
and supplied by the town clerk-treasurer.
   B.   Required Information: The application shall provide the name of the
party requesting the permit, the type of permit, the location and time to which
the permit applies, and any restrictions that may apply to the permit. (Ord.
248, 9-18-1996)
2-1B-4: FEE:
The fee for a malt beverage or catering permit shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00), due and payable to the town at the time the application is submitted.
(Ord. 248, 9-18-1996)
2-1B-5: DEPOSIT FOR CLEANUP:
   A.   Required: Any individual or organization submitting a malt beverage or
catering permit application shall deposit with the town clerk-treasurer the sum
of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Refund: The deposit shall be refunded to the applicant provided that
the area designated in the permit is cleaned and restored to its condition
prior to the event.
   C.   Cleanup By Town: However, should the town be required to clean up the
location authorized in the permit, the town shall assess a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) per hour. If the cleanup costs incurred by the town of Lingle exceed
the applicant's deposit, the applicant shall be billed accordingly. (Ord. 248,
9-18-1996)
2-1B-6: APPEARANCE BEFORE COUNCIL:
Any individual or organization submitting a malt beverage or catering permit
application shall appear at the first regular town council meeting following
the submission of the application for the permit. The town council shall then
consider and act upon the application. (Ord. 248, 9-18-1996)
2-1B-7: TERM:
The permits authorized by this article shall be issued for one 24-hour period
subject to the schedule of operating hours provided by Wyoming Statutes section
12-5-101. (Ord. 248, 9-18-1996)
2-1B-8: NUMBER OF PERMITS RESTRICTED; EXCEPTION:
No person or organization shall receive more than a total of six (6) malt
beverage and catering permits for sales at the same premises in any one year,
except that this limitation shall not be applicable to malt beverage permits
issued for sales at any fair, rodeo, pari-mutuel event or other similar public
event conducted by a public entity upon public premises. (Ord. 248, 9-18-1996)
CHAPTER 2
TOBACCO 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Prohibited Sales Or Delivery
2-2-3: Purchase, Possession Or Use By Minors Prohibited
2-2-4: Public Notice Required
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 14-3-301 et seq.
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The Town of Lingle expressly finds and declares that:
 
                            Any substance containing tobacco/nicotine
                            including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars,
TOBACCO/ NICOTINE PRODUCTS: pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping
                            tobacco, plug tobacco, synthetic tobacco, tobacco
                            oils, electronic cigarettes, vape type cigarettes,
                            pipes or any other smoking apparatus.
                            Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service
VENDING MACHINES:           device, which upon insertion of money, tokens, or
                            any other form of payment, dispenses tobacco/
                            nicotine products. (Ord. 350, 3-3-2021)
 
2-2-2: PROHIBITED SALES OR DELIVERY:
   A.   No vending machine will be used for sale of tobacco/nicotine products
in Town of Lingle corporate boundaries.
   B.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco/
nicotine products to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   C.   Any person violating subsection B. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) plus court costs.
   D.   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under subsection B. of
this section that:
      1.   In the case of a sale, the person who sold the tobacco/nicotine
product was presented with, and reasonably relied upon, an identification card
which identified the person buying or receiving the tobacco/nicotine product as
being over twenty-one (21) years of age; or
      2.   The tobacco/nicotine product was given or delivered to the person
under twenty-one (21) years of age by a parent or guardian and the tobacco/
nicotine product was given or delivered to the person for use in the privacy of
the parent's or guardian's home or under direct supervision of the parent or
guardian. (Ord. 350, 3-3-2021)
2-2-3: PURCHASE, POSSESSION OR USE BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall purchase,
possess or use tobacco/nicotine products, or misrepresent the identity of age,
or use any false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing
tobacco/nicotine products.
   B.   Any person violating subsection A. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), plus court costs. In addition to any fine imposed, the court may
require the completion of a controlled substance program; with the defendant to
receive credit against any fine equal to the amount of the cost of said program
upon the defendant's successful completion thereof.
   C.   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under subsection A. of
this section that the defendant possessed or used the tobacco/nicotine product
in the home of, or under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian.
(Ord. 350, 3-3-2021)
2-2-4: POSTED NOTICE REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person who sells tobacco/nicotine products shall post signs
informing the public of the age restriction provided by this article at or near
every display of tobacco/nicotine products and on or upon and shall contain a
statement communicating that the sale of tobacco/nicotine products to persons
under twenty-one (21) years of age is prohibited by law.
   B.   Any person violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), plus court
costs. Each day of continued violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 350, 3-3-2021)
CHAPTER 3
PROHIBITED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Gambling Devices
2-3-2: Mining
2-3-1: GAMBLING DEVICES 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any firm or corporation within the
town to maintain or operate any slot machine, punch board, dice games of any
nature or any game or games of chance.
   B.   Sale Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any firm or corporation to
handle or have for sale, any punch board, slot machine, or dice boxes.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, persons, firm or corporation violating this
section shall be deemed guilty of an offense against this section and shall be
fined in the municipal court as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 24, 4-6-1923; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 370, 6-5-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-7-101 et seq.
2-3-2: MINING:
No mining, prospecting or drilling for oil shall be allowed within the
corporate limits of the town. (Ord. 68, 7-6-1955)
CHAPTER 4
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Access To Public ROW
2-4-3: Town Council Review
2-4-4: Public ROW Construction and Installation Requirements
2-4-5: Attachment To And Replacement Of Decorative Poles
2-4-6: General Work Requirements
2-4-7: Additional Submittal Requirements For Macrocell Towers
2-4-8: Location Of New Facilities
2-4-9: Removal, Relocation And Abandonment
2-4-10: Indemnification
2-4-11: Venue
2-4-12: Insurance
2-4-13: Independent RF Technical And Legal Review
2-4-14: Federal Shot Clocks
2-4-15: Other Review And Approvals
2-4-16: Violation Of This Chapter
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
TOWN COUNCIL REVIEW: Review of an application by the Town of Lingle relating to
the issuance of a permit to determine whether the issuance of a permit is in
conformity with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits and/or receives radio
frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services. This definition
does not apply to broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use
or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
ANTENNA ARRAY: A single or group of antenna elements and associated mounting
hardware, transmission lines, remote radio units, or other appurtenances which
share a common attachment device such as a mounting frame for the sole purpose
of transmitting or receiving wireless communication signals.
APPLICABLE CODES: Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the
extent such codes have been adopted by the Town, including any amendments.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application under this chapter.
APPLICATION: A written request, on a form provided by the Town, for a permit.
COLLOCATION: The mounting or installation of equipment on an existing tower,
building or structure for the purpose of transmitting or receiving radio
frequency signals for communications purposes.
DECORATIVE POLE: A pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM: A network consisting of transceiver equipment at a
central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST: Shall be as defined in federal regulations.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
GOVERNING BODY: The group of elected officials which is able to make decisions
on behalf of the Town (for example, the Town Council).
LAWS: Collectively, any and all federal, state, or local law, statute, common
law, code, rule, regulation, order, or ordinance.
MACROCELL: An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast,
rooftops or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Inspections, testing or repair that maintain
functional capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a wireless
communication facility and the associated structure, pole or tower, and that
does not involve impeding, damaging or disturbing any portion of the public
ROW.
PERMIT: A written authorization (in electronic or hard copy format) to install,
at a specified location in the public ROW, a wireless communication facility.
PERMITTEE: An applicant that has received a permit under this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
POLE: A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting or similar pole
made of wood, concrete, metal or other material, located or to be located
within the public right-of-way.
PROVIDER: A wireless services provider or wireless infrastructure provider and
includes any person that owns or operates wireless communication facilities
within the public ROW.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC ROW: The area on, below, or above property that
has been designated for use as or is used for a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley or similar purpose, and for purposes of this chapter
shall include public utility easements, but only to the extent the Town has the
authority to permit use of the public utility easement for wireless
communication facilities.
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT: Unless otherwise specified or restricted by the terms
of the easement, the area on, below, or above a property in which the property
owner has dedicated an easement for use by utilities. Public utility easement
does not include an easement dedicated solely for Town use, or where the
proposed use by the provider is inconsistent with the terms of any easement
granted to the Town.
REPLACE or REPLACEMENT: In connection with wireless communication facilities
and a corresponding pole, structure or tower, to replace (or the replacement
of) the same with something that is substantially similar in design, size,
color and scale to the existing facilities or structure and in conformance with
this chapter and any other applicable Town regulations.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES: Encompass facilities that meet the following
conditions: (1) the facilities - (i) are mounted on structures fifty (50) feet
or less in height including their antennas, or (ii) are mounted on structures
no more than ten percent (10%) taller than other adjacent structures, or (iii)
do not extend existing structures on which they are located to a height of more
than fifty (50) feet or by more than ten percent (10%), whichever is greater;
(2) each antenna associated with the deployment, excluding associated antenna
equipment, is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume; (3) all other
wireless equipment associated with the structure, including the wireless
equipment associated with the antenna and any pre-existing associated equipment
on the structure, is no more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet in volume; (4)
the facilities do not require antenna structure registration under federal law;
(5) the facilities are not located on Tribal land as defined under federal law;
and (6) the facilities do not result in human exposure to radiofrequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified under federal
law. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in
the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, grounding equipment, power transfer switch,
cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
STATE: The State of Wyoming.
STEALTH: A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of stealth design include but are not limited
to facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and light
poles, bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally applicable box.
SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE: As defined in federal regulations.
TOWER: Any structure in the public ROW built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting a wireless communication facility.
TOWER HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod, not to exceed ten (10) feet in height, shall not be included
within tower height.
TOWN: The Town of Lingle, Wyoming.
TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT: Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated
with wireless communication services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY or WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
Collectively, the equipment at a fixed location or locations within the public
ROW that enables wireless communication services, including for example: radio
transceivers, support structures, poles, antennas, coaxial, fiber-optic or
other cabling, power supplies (including battery backup), and comparable
equipment, regardless of technological configuration and small wireless
facilities and distributed antenna systems.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person, other than a wireless services
provider, that builds or installs towers, wireless transmission equipment,
wireless facilities poles or wireless support structures.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any wireless services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the public.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services. (Ord. 339,
passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-2: ACCESS TO PUBLIC ROW:
   A.   Agreement. Prior to installing in the public ROW any wireless
communication facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting a wireless communication facility, or any tower, a person shall
enter into an agreement with the Town expressly authorizing use of the public
ROW for the wireless communication facility, pole or tower proposed to be
installed. The agreement shall provide for the attachment to Town-owned poles
or structures in the public right-of-way in addition to poles or structures
owned by unrelated third parties, provided that the applicant secures the
written consent of the third party for such attachment.
   B.   General Terms.
      1.   The term of an agreement shall be for up to ___ (___) years. The
agreement may be renewed for an additional term of ___ (___) years subject to
the mutual written agreement of the Town and provider.
      2.   The agreement authorizes the provider's non-exclusive use of the
public ROW for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this chapter and the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the public ROW in which the Town has an
actual interest. It is not a warranty of title or interest in any public ROW
and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any particular location
or to a superior or preferred location within the public ROW. Nothing herein
shall authorize the use of the Town's poles, towers, support structures or
other structures in the public ROW. All use of Town poles, towers, support
structures, and other structures in the public ROW shall require a separate
attachment agreement or be specifically provided for in the agreement, and
shall include the payment of fees for such use.
      3.   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures and towers in
the public ROW in a safe condition, and in good order and repair.
      4.   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider's small wireless
facilities, or related poles, support structures or towers, the provider shall
immediately notify the Town of the nature of the emergency and planned response
to the emergency.
   C.   Permit Required. No person may construct, install or maintain in the
public ROW any wireless communication facilities without first receiving a
permit from the Town. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an
emergency, a provider or its duly authorized representative may work in the
public ROW prior to obtaining a permit, provided that the provider shall
contact the Town prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a permit as
soon as reasonably possible, but not later than twenty-four (24) hours after
commencing the emergency work. For purposes of this subsection, an "emergency"
means a circumstance in which immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning
facilities is necessary to restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to
persons or property.
   D.   Permit Application Requirements. The application shall be submitted by
the provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain the
following:
      1.   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and email address,
including emergency contact information for the applicant.
      2.   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with respect
to the filing of the application.
      3.   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication
facility sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      4.   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the
pole, tower or support structure on or in which the wireless communication
facility will be placed or attached.
      5.   Detailed construction drawings and photo simulations regarding the
proposed wireless communication facility.
      6.   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility involves
collocation on a pole, tower or support structure, a structural report
performed by a Wyoming licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes.
      7.   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities, accurate
visual depictions or representations, if not included in the construction
drawings or photo simulations.
      8.   Any other submission requirements per published Town policies or
regulations.
   E.   Proprietary or Confidential Information in Application. Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the Wyoming
Public Records Act, W.S. §16-4-201 through §16-4-205. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the applicant may designate portions of its application materials
that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
"proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking each portion of such
materials accordingly, and the Town shall treat the information as proprietary
and confidential, subject to the Wyoming Public Records Act and the Town's
determination that the applicant's request for confidential or proprietary
treatment of application materials is reasonable and in compliance with such
law. The Town shall not be required to incur any costs to protect the
application materials from disclosure, other than the Town's routine procedures
for complying with the Wyoming Public Records Act.
   F.   Ordinary Maintenance and Repair. A permit shall not be required for
ordinary maintenance and repair. The provider or other person performing the
ordinary maintenance and repair shall obtain any other permits required by
applicable laws and shall notify the Town in writing at least forty-eight (48)
hours before performing the ordinary maintenance and repair.
   G.   Application Fees and Bonds. All applications pursuant to this chapter
shall be accompanied by the requisite fees required by the Town. Unless
otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in writing by the Town, a
performance or construction bond or other form of surety acceptable to the Town
equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the work
within the public ROW shall be provided before the applicant commences work.
   H.   Effect of Permit. A permit from the Town authorizes an applicant to
undertake only the activities in the public ROW specified in the application
and permit, and in accordance with this chapter and any conditions included in
the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of existing poles,
towers, support structures or other structures in the public ROW. A permittee
or provider must obtain all necessary approvals from the owner of any pole,
tower, support structure or other structure prior to any attachment or use. A
permit does not create a property right for the applicant. The applicant shall
not interfere with other uses or users of the public ROW.
   I.   Duration. Any permit for construction issued under this chapter shall
be valid for a period of one (1) year, provided that the one (1) year period
may be extended for up to an additional one (1) year upon approval by the
governing body or its designee upon the written request of the applicant (made
prior to the end of the initial one [1] year period) if the failure to complete
construction is as a result of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of
the applicant.
   J.   Batch Permits. An applicant may simultaneously submit not more than ten
(10) applications for wireless communication facilities, or may file a single,
consolidated application covering such wireless communication facilities,
provided that the proposed wireless communication facilities are to be deployed
on the same type of structure using similar equipment within the Town. (Ord.
339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-3: TOWN COUNCIL REVIEW:
   A.   Approval Process. Small wireless facilities in the public ROW may be
approved through the Town Council if the following requirements are met:
      1.   A complete application is submitted, all fees are paid and a permit
is obtained by the applicant or provider; and
      2.   Each new, modified or replacement pole, tower or structure installed
in the public ROW shall not exceed the height limits of the respective zoning
district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a conditional use permit
or special use permit is required; and
      3.   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Design Standards. Subject to subsection A.2. above, all poles built for
the sole or primary purpose of supporting wireless communication facilities may
be approved through the Town Council if the following design guidelines are
also acceptable to the Town:
      1.   Height, shape, design and color for poles and related equipment.
      2.   Number, location and styles of poles that may be installed or used.
      3.   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related
equipment.
      4.   Construction approach per wireless communication facility, including
powering and metering.
      5.   Structural integrity.
      6.   Set-backs for poles and ground-mounted equipment.
      7.   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be used
only to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities.
      8.   Lighting, marking and noise requirements.
      9.   Fencing/landscaping/screening/signage requirements.
      10.    Collocation analysis.
      11.   Use of decorative poles, where necessary.
      12.   A written report will be prepared, signed and sealed by a Wyoming
licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the applicant, which
assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility demonstrates compliance
with the radio frequency emissions limits established by the FCC. The qualified
employee of the applicant shall submit his or her qualifications with the
report. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-4: PUBLIC ROW CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA or applicable Town regulation.
   B.   State or Federal Requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC and any other agency of the
local, state or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   C.   Building Codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and towers,
the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is maintained
in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local building
code standards.
   D.   Public Notice. For purposes of this chapter, any application for a
wireless communication facility, including small wireless facilities, variance,
exception or appeal of a request for a permit requires public notice to all
adjoining property owners and all owners of surrounding properties as may be
required by the Town Code.
   E.   Equipment Cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and zoning requirements. A site plan is also
required.
   F.   Inventory of Existing Sites. Not more than one (1) time per year, each
applicant for a macrocell tower shall provide to the Town an inventory of the
provider's existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas,
that are either within the jurisdiction of the Town or within one (1) mile of
the border thereof, including specific information about the location and tower
height. The Town may share such information with other applicants applying for
administrative review or other permits under this chapter or other
organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the Town,
provided, however, that the Town is not, by sharing such information, in any
way representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   G.   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and colored
to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host structure.
Towers shall be painted a color that best allows them to blend into the
surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze, browns or other
site specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case shall be evaluated
individually.
   H.   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the Town.
   I.   Visual Impact. All wireless communication facilities in residential
districts, historic and downtown districts shall be sited and designed with
stealth features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties
and the traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent
with the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such
wireless communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated
through location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of
the site. Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the
proposed location, design, visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and
natural features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed
to either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings, or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
   J.   Building-mounted WCFs.
      1.   All transmission equipment shall be concealed within existing
architectural features to the extent feasible. Any new architectural features
proposed to conceal the transmission equipment shall be designed to mimic the
existing underlying structure, shall be as proportional as possible to the
existing underlying structure or conform to the underlying use and shall use
materials in similar quality, finish, color and texture as the existing
underlying structure.
      2.   All roof-mounted transmission equipment shall be set back from all
roof edges to the extent feasible consistent with the need for "line-of-sight"
transmission and reception of signals.
      3.   Antenna arrays and supporting transmission equipment shall be
installed so as to camouflage, disguise or conceal them to make them closely
compatible with and blend into the setting or host structure.
   K.   Placement and Notice.
      1.   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close as
technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile to
the extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
      2.   Prior to the installation or construction of a wireless
communication facility within the Public ROW or utility easement, the provider
must notify all utilities located within such public ROW or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the public ROW or utility easement.
   L.   Accessory Equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider's choice) in an existing
building, underground, or in an equipment shelter or cabinet that is (a)
designed to blend in with existing surroundings, using architecturally
compatible construction and colors; and (b) be located so as to be unobtrusive
as possible consistent with the proper functioning of the wireless
communication facilities.
   M.   Site Design Flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise or conceal them, to make the
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval by the Town.
   N.   Landscaping, Screening and Fencing.
      1.   Equipment shelters and cabinets and other on the ground ancillary
equipment shall be screened with landscaping (except for those in the public
ROW) as required for the zone in which they are located or with another design
acceptable to the Town. Alternatively, where technically feasible, the
applicant may incorporate the cabinet and other equipment into the base of a
new pole (for example, for a small wireless facility) provided there is
adequate space in the public ROW and that Americans with Disabilities Act
sidewalk accessibility requirements can be met. All provisions of the Americans
with Disabilities Act (including, but not limited to, clear space requirements)
shall be met by the provider.
      2.   Except for locations in the public right-of-way, a site-obscuring
fence (for example, wrought iron as opposed to barbed wire) shall be
constructed around each tower and around related support or guy anchors at the
height specified for the particular zoning district. Access shall only be
through a locked gate. Any fence shall comply with the other design guidelines
of the Town Code.
   O.   New Poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole or banner
clips).
   P.   As-builts and Maps. The provider shall furnish to the Town paper and
electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in the public ROW and as-
builts after construction is completed. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-5: ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES:
   A.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the Town has determined, in
its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has been met:
      1.   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      2.   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   B.   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the Town has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
      1.   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      2.   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and Historic District. (Ord.
339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-6: GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Safety and Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall employ due
care during the installation, maintenance or any other work in the public ROW,
and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of applicable
laws, Town guidelines, standards and practices and any additional commonly
accepted safety standards.
   B.   Traffic Control. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic control devices, signs and lights to protect, warn
and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The
manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic control
plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic control and
safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation is restored
to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the Town.
   C.   Interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the public ROW, and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any public ROW.
   D.   Utility Locates. Before beginning any excavation in the public ROW, the
permittee shall comply with One Call of Wyoming.
   E.   Compliance with Permit.
      1.   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance
with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The Town and its
representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such further
information as they may require to ensure compliance with such requirements.
All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans and
specifications for the work, or the requirements of this chapter, shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The Town may stop work in order
to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a wireless
communication facility, an applicant must obtain all other required approvals
as required by the Town. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-7: ADDITIONAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MACROCELL TOWERS:
In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the following shall also
accompany applications for macrocell towers:
   A.   Noise Study. A noise study shall be conducted, if requested by the
Town.
   B.   Site Plan. A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type,
height and width of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent
land uses and zoning, separation distances, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or renderings of
the proposed tower and any other structures, topography, parking, utility runs
and other information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-8: LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES:
   A.   The provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless communication
facilities so as to interfere with the use of the public ROW by the Town, by
the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be present in or
upon the public ROW.
   B.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water or sewer
lines (or other public improvements) and communications facilities are located
underground within a public ROW, the provider with permission to occupy the
same portion of the public ROW shall locate its wireless communication
facilities underground at its own expense. The Town may, in its sole
discretion, approve above-ground placement of equipment cabinets, pedestals and
similar equipment. For facilities or equipment such as wireless communication
facilities that cannot, by their nature, operate unless located above-ground,
the provider and Town shall work to find a suitable location for such
facilities or equipment, which may be outside of the public ROW.
   C.   In performing any work in or affecting the public ROW, the provider,
and any agent or contractor of the provider, shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   D.   The provider, or its agent or contractor, shall restore, repair and
replace any portion of the public ROW that is damaged or disturbed by the
provider's wireless communication facilities or work in or adjacent to the
public ROW as required in this chapter and all other applicable laws.
If the provider fails to timely restore, repair or replace the public ROW as
required in this subsection, the Town or its contractor may do so and the
provider shall pay the Town's costs and expenses in completing the restoration,
repair or replacement including attorneys' fees and expenses. (Ord. 339, passed
2-6-2019)
2-4-9: REMOVAL, RELOCATION AND ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Town, the
provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the public ROW, including
relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities underground
(consistent with the provisions of this chapter), whenever the Town has
determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or
installation of any Town improvement, the operations of the Town in, under or
upon the public ROW, or otherwise is in the public interest. The provider shall
be responsible to the Town for any damages the Town may incur as a result of
the provider's failure to remove or relocate its wireless communication
facilities.
   B.   The Town retains the right and privilege to cut or move any wireless
communication facility located within the public ROW of the Town, as the Town
may determine, in its sole discretion, to be necessary, appropriate or useful
in response to any public emergency. If circumstances permit, the Town shall
notify the provider and give the provider an opportunity to move its own
facilities prior to cutting or removing the wireless communication facilities.
In all cases the Town shall notify the provider after cutting or removing the
wireless communication facility as promptly as reasonably possible.
   C.   A provider shall notify the Town of abandonment of any wireless
communication facility at the time the decision to abandon is made; however, in
no case shall such notification be made later than thirty (30) days prior to
abandonment. Following receipt of such notice, the provider shall remove its
wireless communication facility at the provider's own expense, unless the Town
determines, in its sole discretion, that the wireless communication facility
may be abandoned in place. The provider shall remain solely responsible and
liable for all of its wireless communication facilities until they are removed
from the public ROW unless the Town agrees in writing to take ownership of the
abandoned wireless communication facilities.
   D.   If the provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its wireless
communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless communication
facilities as required in this subsection, the Town or its contractor may do so
and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses related to such work,
including any damages the Town incurs arising from the delay and attorneys'
fees and expenses. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
The applicant and provider shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Town,
its agents, officers, officials and employees from any and all damages,
liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses, whether
for personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of or in connection
with the activities or performance of the applicant or provider. In the event
the Town becomes aware of any actions or claims, the Town shall promptly notify
the applicant and provider and reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is
expressly agreed that the Town shall have the right to approve, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the Town's
defense, and the applicant and the provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the
Town for any costs, expenses and attorneys' fees directly and necessarily
incurred by the Town in the course of the defense. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-11: VENUE:
Venue for any judicial dispute between the Town and provider shall be in the
Eighth Judicial District in and for Goshen County, Wyoming. (Ord. 339, passed
2-6-2019)
2-4-12: INSURANCE:
No person shall own or operate a wireless communication facility within the
Town without having secured and at all times maintained in place insurance
coverage which conforms to the following:
   A.   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers compensation,
employers liability and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the Town;
   B.   For a wireless communication facility in the public ROW or on Town
property, the commercial general liability insurance policy shall specifically
include the Town and its officers, officials, employees, and agents as
additional insures;
   C.   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative of
an insurance company licensed to do business in the State and with a Best's
rating of at least _____; and
   D.   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without thirty (30)
days prior written notice being given to the Town and the insurance must be
replaced by the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original
amounts. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-13: INDEPENDENT RF TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW:
Although the Town intends for Town staff to review applications to the extent
feasible, the Town may retain the services of an independent consultant and
attorney of its choice to provide technical and legal evaluations of permit
applications. The consultant shall have recognized qualifications in the field
of radio frequency engineering and the attorney in the field of wireless
communication facilities regulations and approval processes. The review may
include, but is not limited to (a) the accuracy and completeness of the items
submitted with the application; (b) the applicability of analysis and
techniques and methodologies proposed by the applicant; (c) the validity of
conclusions reached by the applicant; and (d) whether the proposed small
wireless facilities comply with the applicable approval criteria set forth in
this chapter. The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent consultant
and attorneys' fees through a deposit, estimated by the Town, within ten (10)
business days of the Town's request. When the Town requests such payment, the
application shall be deemed incomplete for purposes of application processing
time lines until the deposit is received. In the event that such costs and fees
do not exceed the deposit amount, the Town shall refund any unused portion
within thirty (30) days after the final permit is released or, if no final
permit is released, within thirty (30) days after the Town receives a written
request from the applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount,
then the applicant shall pay the difference to the Town before the permit is
issued. The consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized description of
the services provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall be limited to
a reasonable approximation of costs and the costs shall be reasonable. (Ord.
339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-14: FEDERAL SHOT CLOCKS:
   A.   Eligible Facilities Requests. This subsection implements Section 6409
(a) of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. Section 1455(a), interpreted by the FCC in
its Report and Order No. 14-153, which requires a state or local government to
approve any Eligible Facilities Request for a modification of an existing tower
or base station that does not result in a substantial change to the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station. Eligible Facilities Requests shall be
governed by the provisions of federal law including, but not limited to,
application review, the sixty (60) day shot clock, tolling and the deemed
granted remedy. Eligible Facilities Requests are subject to administrative
review by the Town.
   B.   Small Wireless Facilities - Collocation on Existing Structures. This
subsection implements the sixty (60) day shot clock which is contained in the
FCC's Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order adopted September 26, 2018,
regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the
sixty (60) day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling
and available remedies.
   C.   Small Wireless Facilities - Construction (New Structures). This
subsection implements the ninety (90) day shot clock which is contained in the
FCC's Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order adopted September 26, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the
ninety (90) day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling
and available remedies.
   D.   Collocation for Other Than Small Wireless Facilities. This subsection
implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. Section 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities including, but not
limited to, application review, the ninety (90) day shot clock and tolling.
   E.   New Sites or Towers. This subsection implements, in part, 47 U.S.C.
Section 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new site or tower applications including, but
not limited to, application review, the one hundred fifty (150) day shot clock
and tolling. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-15: OTHER REVIEW AND APPROVALS:
All other proposed installations within the public ROW involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as
small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under the Town Code. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
2-4-16: VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each
day that a violation occurs or is allowed to exist by the applicant or provider
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 339, passed 2-6-2019)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Nuisance Defined; Enumerated
3-1-2: Causing Or Permitting
3-1-3: Initiation Of Abatement
3-1-4: Abatement By Town
3-1-5: Costs Of Abatement
3-1-6: Obstructing Abatement
3-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED: ENUMERATED:
   A.   Defined: For the purpose of this chapter, "nuisance" means the doing or
failure to do something that injuriously affects the safety, health or morals
of the public. A "nuisance" is the maintenance by any person of any conditions
or use of real or personal property in such a manner as to unreasonably
interfere with the use and enjoyment of the property of another, or which is
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the town or
causes substantial diminution in the value of other property in the
neighborhood in which such nuisance is maintained.
   B.   Enumerated: The unlawful doing of any act or the omission to perform a
duty, which either annoys, injures or endangers the public health, safety,
welfare or quiet enjoyment of property of the citizens of the Town of Lingle,
or which unlawfully interferes with or tends to obstruct, or in any way render
unsafe and insecure, other persons in life or in the use of their property is
hereby declared a "nuisance". "Nuisance", as used in this chapter, includes,
but is not limited to the following:
      1.   The keeping of flammable or combustible material in such a manner as
to endanger by fire any property or structure within the town, unless guarded
and protected so far as practicable to prevent fires from originating therein
or from spreading when started near such materials.
      2.   The accumulation without roof or cover or other sufficient
protection upon any property or within any structure within the town, of junk,
rubbish, trash, waste, discarded material or salvage in such a manner as to
harbor rats, rodents, mice, skunks or other animals which may transmit disease
to human beings, or in such a manner as to provide a breeding place for flies,
mosquitoes or other harmful insects;
      3.   Abandoned and unsheltered, discarded or unused objects or equipment
such as automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, old clothes, tin cans,
wastepaper or any combustible material, rubbish or filth of any kind;
      4.   Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other
automobiles not in good and safe operating condition and of any other vehicles,
machinery, implements, equipment and personal property of any kind which are no
longer safely usable for the purposes for which they were manufactured, which
hereinafter are collectively described as "property", for a period of thirty
(30) days or more (except in licensed junkyards) within the corporate limits of
this town;
      5.   Any foul or offensive liquid or substance of any kind discharged
into or upon any public or private property within the town;
      6.   Any dead animal within the limits of the town that is not removed
within twenty four (24) hours;
      7.   Any handbills placed upon any public or private building, fence, or
other structure without permission from the owner or occupant of the same;
      8.   Any barn, corral, pig pen, outhouse, or other unsanitary or
objectionable building on any public or private property within the town;
      9.   Any structure, fence, advertising device, tree, etc., that is in an
unsafe condition or does not conform to the requirements of the building or
electrical codes;
      10.   The keeping or maintaining of premises in a manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of property of others in the vicinity.
(Ord. 336, 3-21-2018)
3-1-2: CAUSING OR PERMITTING:
   A.   No person shall cause or be in any manner whatsoever instrumental in
causing or permitting any "nuisance" as herein defined within the limits of
town.
   B.   No person shall permit any building, grounds, vehicles or premises to
be in such condition as to be offensive, or a nuisance to any persons or to the
neighborhood in which such property is found.
   C.   No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner,
lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall keep or maintain such premises in
a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of other property in the
neighborhood in which such premises are located. (Ord. 336, 3-21-2018)
3-1-3: INITIATION OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Proceedings: All proceedings for the enforcement of this chapter shall
be governed by rules of practice and procedure in the municipal court. In the
absence of such provisions, proceedings under this chapter shall be governed by
the statutes and Rules of Criminal Procedure of Wyoming governing practice and
procedure before the Circuit Courts of Wyoming, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
   B.   Complaint: All actions for violations of this chapter shall be
commenced by filing with the municipal court a sworn complaint and affidavit or
citation signed by any responsible citizen or citizens of the town or by any
member of the police department or sheriff’s department, detailing with
particularly the facts showing the existence of a "nuisance" as herein defined.
   C.   Entry on Docket: Upon the filing of such complaint and affidavit or
citation, the municipal judge shall enter the case on his docket in the usual
manner as required by law.
   D.   Summons: Upon the filing of such complaint and affidavit, the municipal
judge shall issue summons which shall be dated the date it is issued, signed by
the judge, directed to any law enforcement officer of the town and containing
the name of the defendant, if known, and commanding the officer serving the
same to summon the defendant to appear before the judge at a time specified
therein, but in any event not more than thirty (30) days from the date of
service, to show cause why the nuisance complained of should not be abated and
stating that if defendant fails to appear, judgment as prayed for in the
affidavit and complaint will be entered against him, or that a warrant for his
arrest may be issued for failing to appear. If personal service cannot be made
upon defendant, the judge shall give notice to the defendant by posting a copy
of the summons, complaint and affidavit, or citation at some conspicuous place
on the property where the nuisance is maintained and by publishing said
summons, complaint and affidavit, or citation for two (2) consecutive weeks in
a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   E.   Hearing: At a hearing the court shall try the issues raised by the
affidavit and complaint or citation, and defendant's answer or response
thereto, if any, and from the testimony and evidence adduced at such hearing,
the judge shall determine whether the conditions complained of exist beyond a
reasonable doubt and whether the same constitutes a "nuisance" as defined in
this chapter.
   F.   Order to Abate and Remove: Upon finding that a nuisance exists, the
judge may order the same to be abated and removed and shall make an entry of
such order on the docket in the proceedings before him.
   G.   Penalties: Upon finding that a nuisance exists, the judge may order a
fine or imprisonment as specified by Wyoming Statute §6-10-103, in addition to
abatement as described herein. (Ord. 336, 3-21-2018)
3-1-4: ABATEMENT BY TOWN:
Upon failure or refusal of the owner or occupant of such premises and the
property constituting such nuisance to remove and abate the same under the
terms of a court order and within the prescribed time set by the judge, the
judge may, without further proceedings, order and direct the law enforcement
officers or other employees of the town to abate the nuisance or remove the
property constituting such nuisance to a suitable location or disposal site
selected by the town. The law enforcement officer or other employee of the town
shall thereupon proceed to tear down, destroy, remove and abate such nuisance
and condition, and use all reasonable means and force to do so, and shall keep
a just and accurate account of the expense thereof, and return it to the town
clerk-treasurer to be presented to the town council for further action thereon.
All such property abated shall become the property of the Town unless claimed
by the owner within ten (10) days after the nuisance is removed by the Town.
(Ord. 336, 3-21-2018)
3-1-5: COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
The town council, at a regular meeting, shall consider such expense, and, by
resolution, finally determine actual cost of removal and abatement, and assess
the same against the real property from which said nuisance was removed, and
assess the amount charged against the same. Any amount so found due is a
special assessment which shall be levied and assessed as such, and be collected
in like manner as any other town taxes. (Ord. 336, 3-21-2018)
3-1-6: OBSTRUCTING ABATEMENT:
Any owner or occupant of any premises upon which any condition or nuisance is
ordered abated, or any other person who shall in any manner obstruct the
removal, abatement or destruction of the same, or who fails to remove and abate
such nuisance or condition after notice as provided in this chapter, shall be
deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance and shall, upon conviction, in addition
to special taxes and assessments herein provided, be subject to penalty as
provided in Wyoming Statute §6-10-103. (Ord. 336, 3-21-2018)
CHAPTER 2
JUNKYARDS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Declared Nuisance
3-2-2: Penalty
3-2-1: DECLARED NUISANCE:
The existence, location or maintenance of any used car wrecking establishment
or junkyard within the limits of the town is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and is punishable as such as a misdemeanor. (Ord. 44, 3-4-1935)
3-2-2: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating the terms of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. If such violation be upon more than one day, the violation
upon each such day shall be deemed a separate offense hereunder and punishable
as such as a misdemeanor as hereinbefore provided. (Ord. 44, 3-4-1935; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS 1
SECTION:
3-3-1: Removal Required
3-3-2: Enforcement; Compliance By Owner; Notice
3-3-3: Removal By Town; Lien
3-3-4: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-3-2 of this code.
3-3-1: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee, occupant or agent having control of
any lot or premises to mow or otherwise destroy and remove weeds and tall
grass, as determined in the sole discretion of the town supervisor, that may
grow upon such lot or premises as well as upon any parking space between such
property and the street and upon that portion of any alley adjoining such
premises. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
3-3-2: ENFORCEMENT; COMPLIANCE BY OWNER; NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the town supervisor or his designee to require
compliance with this chapter. The owner, lessee, agent or occupant of any
premises shall be held liable for such compliance; and, if such person shall
refuse or fail to destroy and remove any weeds or tall grass upon any premises
under his care and control, he shall be served with verbal or written notice
requiring removal of such weeds or tall grass within ten (10) days from the
receipt of such notice. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
3-3-3: REMOVAL BY TOWN; LIEN:
Upon failure to comply with any notice given pursuant to section
3-3-2 of this chapter, the town may have such weeds or tall grass mowed or
destroyed and removed, charging double the cost thereof as a special bill for
refuse removal. Should such bill not be paid promptly, the same shall become a
lien against such property and collectable as such. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
3-3-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the
municipal court, shall be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, to which sum costs of prosecution shall be
added. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
   B.   Separate Offense: Each time weeds or tall grass on such premises
require destruction and removal but are not shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Established; Composition
4-1-2: Appointment; Term
4-1-3: Duties
4-1-4: Badge, Uniform And Materials
4-1-5: Neglect Of Duty
4-1-6: Persons Ineligible For Appointment Or Employment
4-1-7: Protection Of Peace Officer
4-1-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a police department for the town of Lingle to be
composed of a police officer and such number of additional police officers as
the town council shall, from time to time, determine. (2002 Code)
4-1-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The police officer shall be appointed by the mayor by and with the consent of
the town council. The term of office for said officer shall last until
terminated or until a successor has been appointed. (2002 Code)
4-1-3: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: It shall be the duty of the police officer to suppress
all affrays, riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace and at all times to
diligently and faithfully enforce all such laws, ordinances and regulations for
the preservation of good order and property and the public welfare as the
council members may enact.
   B.   Arrests; Right Of Entry: Such police officer authorized to make arrests
or to serve process may, in the discharge of his duties, enter into any and all
public places with or without process and arrest any and all individuals found
in any such place under circumstances which would warrant a reasonable person
in believing that such individual or individuals had committed a crime. Such
police officer shall have the power to arrest all individuals found anywhere in
the act of violating any law or ordinance or aiding or abetting in any such
violation, and upon view shall arrest any individual found under any
circumstances which would warrant a reasonable person in believing that such
individual or individuals had violated any ordinance of the town. It shall be
the police officer's duty to forthwith bring any such individual or individuals
before the appropriate court, if said court then be in session, and if not, to
then convey such arrested individual to the county jail until such time as he
can give suitable bail for appearance in said court. (2002 Code)
4-1-4: BADGE, UNIFORM AND MATERIALS:
Such police officer shall wear a suitable badge and uniform and should the
officer lose or destroy the same will be required to pay the cost of replacing
said badge or uniform or both, and when such police officer shall leave the
department, he shall thereupon deliver his badge and uniform to the mayor or
council. (2002 Code)
4-1-5: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
Any member of the police department who shall neglect to perform any duty
required of him by the ordinances of the town, or who shall fail to abide by
the rules and regulations of the police department, or who shall in the
discharge of his official duty be guilty of any fraud, extortion, oppression,
favoritism or wilful wrong or injustice shall, upon conviction thereof in the
municipal court, in addition to any other penalty or punishment imposed by law,
be punished by the fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (2002 Code; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
4-1-6: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT:
No person shall be appointed or employed as a regular police officer of the
department who shall have been convicted of, or against whom any indictment or
information may be pending for any offense, the punishment for which may be
confinement in any penitentiary, nor shall any person be so appointed who is of
notoriously bad character or is not able to read or write the English language
or who does not possess ordinary physical courage. (2002 Code)
4-1-7: PROTECTION OF PEACE OFFICER:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "peace officer" means any sworn
member of a sheriff's office, municipal police department, the Wyoming highway
patrol and special agents of the state of Wyoming charged with the enforcement
of criminal statutes and ordinances.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Obstruct, Impede Or Interfere: Knowingly and unlawfully obstruct,
impede or interfere with any peace officer while such officer is engaged in any
lawful performance of his official duties.
      2.   Assault; Battery: Knowingly assault or commit a battery upon a peace
officer.
      3.   Resist Arrest; Aid, Abet Or Assist Arrest; Refuse Assistance 1 : It
shall be unlawful for any person to resist by force and violence or to aid,
abet or assist any other person to resist by force or violence any arrest made
or attempted to be made by the town police officer or any other peace officer.
It shall also be unlawful for any person standing by to refuse to assist the
officer in making a lawful arrest if called upon to do so by the peace officer.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-2-5-1 of this title.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Offenses Against The Person
4-2-1-1: Concealed Weapons
4-2-1-2: Assault; Assault And Battery
4-2-1-3: Provoking An Assault
4-2-2: Property Offenses
4-2-2-1: Larceny; Stealing
4-2-2-2: Destruction, Injury To Property
4-2-2-3: Defacing Property
4-2-2-4: Trespass
4-2-2-5: Shoplifting
4-2-3: Offenses Against Public Peace
4-2-3-1: Disorderly Conduct
4-2-3-2: Disturbing The Peace
4-2-4: Offenses Against Public Safety
4-2-4-1: Discharge Of Firearms, Air Guns, Bows
4-2-4-2: Switchblades
4-2-4-3: Obstructing Exits
4-2-4-4: Leaving Child In Vehicle
4-2-4-5: Fireworks
4-2-4-6: Placing Articles In Streets And Alleys; Throwing Missiles
4-2-5: Offenses Against Public Authority
4-2-5-1: Resisting, Opposing, Refusing Officer
4-2-5-2: Aiding And Abetting Prisoners
4-2-5-3: False Fire Alarm
4-2-5-4: False Crime Report
4-2-6: Offenses Against Public Policy
4-2-6-1: Criminal Mischief
4-2-6-2: Littering
4-2-7: Penalty
4-2-1: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON:
4-2-1-1: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person within the Town, to
carry about his person, any concealed deadly weapon of any kind.
   B.   Exception: Persons who have complied with Wyoming Statutes section 6-8-
104. (Ord. 335, 6-21-2017)
4-2-1-2: ASSAULT; ASSAULT AND BATTERY 1 :
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the Town to assault or
threaten another in a menacing manner or unlawfully touch, strike or injure
another. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-2-501.
4-2-1-3: PROVOKING AN ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the Town intentionally to
provoke or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself or another by the
uttering of grossly vile or insulting epithets or to curse or swear at a person
or use grossly vile names, or slander or abuse the character of another person
with the intention of provoking an assault by such person. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-2: PROPERTY OFFENSES:
4-2-2-1: LARCENY; STEALING 1 :
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the Town to steal any
money, goods or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall, within the
Town, steal property of any kind whatever, whether the same be wholly in money
or wholly in property of some other character or partly in money and partly in
other property of the value of less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 6-3-401 et seq.
4-2-2-2: DESTRUCTION, INJURY TO PROPERTY 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person within the town purposely, wilfully or
maliciously to destroy or injure or aid in destroying or injuring, in any
manner, any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person or in the charge of another as agent or factor. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 3. WS § 6-3-201 et seq.
4-2-2-3: DEFACING PROPERTY 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the town to wantonly or
prankishly daub or mark the windows of others with soap or other substance, or
remove signs, overturn outbuildings, ground swings, or in any manner disturb or
molest any property of another at any time, or to aid any other person in such
unlawful conduct. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 4. WS § 6-3-201 et seq.
4-2-2-4: TRESPASS 1 :
   A.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To knowingly enter upon any privately owned real property which is
not available to the use of the public unless such person has obtained the
consent of the owner or person in possession or control thereof, (Ord. 195, 4-
4-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   To lodge in or occupy any building or structure without the
permission of the owner or person entitled to possession,
      3.   To lodge in any vehicle or to occupy any vehicle without the
permission of the owner or person entitled to possession, or
      4.   To lodge, camp or sleep in any public way, park or place except at
authorized camping areas.
   B.   Town Property: Whoever enters upon the closed land or premises of the
town after being lawfully notified or forbidden to do so by the town, its
agents or servants; or who, being upon the land or premises of the town, shall
be lawfully notified to depart therefrom by its agents or servants, and shall
thereafter neglect or refuse to depart therefrom, shall be guilty of
"trespass". (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-3-303.
4-2-2-5: SHOPLIFTING 1 :
   A.   Shoplifting Defined: Any person who wilfully conceals or wilfully takes
possession of any goods offered for sale by a wholesale or retail store or
other mercantile establishment without the knowledge or consent of the owner
thereof and with intent to convert the goods to his own use without paying the
purchase price therefor is guilty of "shoplifting".
   B.   Reasonable Detention And Interrogation: Any peace officer, merchant or
merchant's employee who has reasonable cause for believing that a person has
committed the crime of "shoplifting" as defined under subsection A of this
section may detain and interrogate such person in regard thereto in a
reasonable manner and for a reasonable time.
   C.   Reasonable Cause A Defense: Where a peace officer, merchant or
merchant's employee, with reasonable cause for believing that a person has
committed the crime of "shoplifting" as defined under subsection A of this
section, detains and interrogates such person in regard thereto, and such
person thereafter brings against the peace officer, merchant or merchant's
employee a civil or criminal action for slander, false arrest, false
imprisonment, assault, battery or wrongful detention based upon the detention
and interrogation, such reasonable cause shall be a defense to the action if
the detention and interrogation were done in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable time. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 2. WS § 6-3-404.
4-2-3: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE:
4-2-3-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT 1 :
A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or carelessly creating a risk thereof, he or
she:
   A.   Violent Or Tumultuous Act: Engages in fighting or other violent or
tumultuous conduct or in conduct creating the threat of imminent fighting or
other violence; or
   B.   Incite Fighting Or Violent Conduct: Makes or uses to or of another and
in his presence any gesture, display, opprobrious words, profane, obscene, or
abusive language which would reasonably tend to incite or abet a person to
engage in fighting or other violent or tumultuous conduct; or
   C.   Noise; Obscene Language: Creates loud and offensive noise or utters
profane or obscene language in any public street or other public place, or
place to which the public is invited; or
   D.   Obstruct Traffic: Places himself or with another or others congregates
in or on any public way so as to reasonably tend to halt or interfere with the
free and regular flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear
such public way when ordered by the police or other lawful authority; or
   E.   Under Influence: Is found in any public place under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drug, in such a condition that he is unable to exercise
care for his own safety or the safety of others, or by reason of his being
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drug or any combination of any
intoxicating liquor or drug, interferes with or obstructs or prevents the free
use of any street, sidewalk, or other public way, or appears in any private
dwelling or place and disturbs the occupants thereof or any other person within
the corporate limits of the town; or
   F.   Peeping Tom: While unlawfully upon the private property of another,
peeks in the door or window of any inhabited building or structure located
thereon without visible or lawful purpose; or
   G.   Urinate In Public: Urinates in the streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or
other public places in the town. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 6-1-102 et seq., and 15-1-103(a)(xv).
4-2-3-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits of the town,
either upon private or public property, to wilfully disturb the peace and quiet
of any person, family, or neighborhood, social or religious meeting, or private
or public gathering of any character, either by words, language, or conduct.
(Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-4: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY:
4-2-4-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS, BOWS 1 :
No person, except an officer of the law in the discharge of his duty, shall
fire or discharge any firearm, air gun, slingshot, bow or crossbow within the
town without the written permission of the police officer. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. WS title 6, chapter 8.
4-2-4-2: SWITCHBLADES:
   A.   Definition: A "switchblade knife" shall mean and include any knife
having a spring or other device that will open the blade and lock it in an open
position.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or about
his person, or otherwise to have in his possession or control, any switchblade
knife. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-4-3: OBSTRUCTING EXITS:
   A.   Doors To Remain Unbarred And Unlocked: The doors of all exits from
buildings occupied as churches, school building, theaters for dramatic,
operatic or similar performances, or as picture shows, or used for any public
gathering or meetings shall, during every performance, meeting or gathering
within the building, be and remain unbarred and unlocked. For every departing
gathering they shall be fastened open.
   B.   Temporary Seats Or Obstructions: No temporary seats or obstructions of
any character shall, while such building is in use, be permitted to be or
remain in any aisle, passageway, exit, entrance or stairway.
   C.   Obstructions In Lobby Or In Front Of Outer Door: No obstructions of any
character, either movable or immovable, shall, while any such building is in
use, be placed or left in any lobby or in front of any outer door or exit.
   D.   Standing In Aisle Or Stairway: No person shall be permitted to remain
in any aisle or on any stairway of any such building while the building is in
use.
   E.   Lighting In Hallways And Stairways: The public hallways and stairways
in such buildings shall be well lighted.
   F.   Failure To Comply: Every occupant of any such building who shall fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each twenty four (24) hours of refusal or
neglect to obey any provision of this section shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense punishable as a violation hereof. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-4-4: LEAVING CHILD IN VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian or adult responsible for
a juvenile to leave such juvenile under the age of six (6) years inside a motor
vehicle unsupervised while in the town of Lingle. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-4-5: FIREWORKS 1 :
   A.   Discharging Of Fireworks: It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot
off or discharge any fireworks of any kind within the town except between the
hours of twelve (12:00) noon and twelve (12:00) midnight on July 3, 4, 5 and
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to twelve thirty o’clock (12:30) A.M. on New Year's
Eve. Any person who shall at any time, shoot off or discharge any fireworks of
any kind or any other dangerous explosives within the town so as to
unreasonably disturb any person or persons, or endanger the life and limb of
any person, or the property of any person or corporation shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Sales Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell or offer for sale or exchange any fireworks within the
town. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984; Ord. 310, 10-7-2009; Ord. 351, 3-3-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 35-10-201 et seq.
4-2-4-6: PLACING ARTICLES IN STREETS AND ALLEYS; THROWING MISSILES:
Every person, who shall throw or place any stones, bottles, glass, iron, wood
or other hard or sharp substances in or on any of the streets, alleys or other
public places within the corporate limits of the town or who shall throw any
missile at or against any house, building, vehicle, or at or toward any person
within the town shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-5: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY:
4-2-5-1: RESISTING, OPPOSING, REFUSING OFFICER 1 :
Every person who shall, within the corporate limits, resist, oppose, obstruct,
threaten, or in any manner attempt to intimidate, obstruct or resist the police
officer of the town or any other officer of the law in the discharge of any of
his or their lawful official duties, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor 2
. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-5-204.
2 2. See also subsection
  4-1-7B3 of this title.
4-2-5-2: AIDING AND ABETTING PRISONERS:
Every person who shall, within the corporate limits, set at liberty, rescue or
attempt to set at liberty or rescue from any town officer having custody of the
same, any prisoner or prisoners, either before or after conviction, or who
shall set at liberty or rescue or attempt to set at liberty or rescue from the
custody of the municipal court of the town any person or persons while in said
court, either before or after conviction, or who shall set at liberty or rescue
or attempt to set at liberty or rescue either before or after conviction, any
prisoner or prisoners held in custody or confinement, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-5-3: FALSE FIRE ALARM:
Every person who shall, within the corporate limits, give or sound any false
alarm of fire, without reasonable or probable cause, or who shall for the
purpose of calling attention to any place of business and attracting people
thereto, or for any other purpose, sound any gong, or cause any loud and
offensive noise in any street, alley, or public place, or in any hallway or
upon any porch or balcony or other place, over, upon, near or adjoining such
street, alley or other public place shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-5-4: FALSE CRIME REPORT:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to knowingly make to, or file
with, the police department any false, misleading, or unfounded statement or
report concerning the commission or alleged commission of any crime occurring
within the town. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-6: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC POLICY:
4-2-6-1: CRIMINAL MISCHIEF:
A person commits criminal mischief if he:
   A.   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
   B.   Intentionally or recklessly tampers with property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
   C.   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary loss by
deception or threat. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
4-2-6-2: LITTERING 1 :
No person in the town shall throw or permit to be deposited or scattered upon
any sidewalks, alley, street, bridge or public passageway, or upon any private
property, any waste or other material of any kind. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 6-3-204.
4-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as established
in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, to which shall be added the costs of
prosecution, except as provided in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 195, 4-
4-1984; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
   B.   Jail Time Included: A violation of section
4-2-1-2,
4-2-2-1,
4-2-2-2,
4-2-2-5,
4-2-3-1,
4-2-5-1,
4-2-5-2,
4-2-5-3 or
4-2-6-1 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Per Diem Credit: Upon conviction for the violation of any provision of
this chapter where the judgment of the court imposes a fine or costs, the
defendant may be committed to the county jail until such fine or costs are
paid; and if so committed, defendant shall be credited on such fine and costs
ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each day defendant is confined in jail. (Ord.
195, 4-4-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. ANIMALS
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Keeping Certain Animals Prohibited
4-3A-2: Animal Waste Removal
4-3A-3: Keeping Of Fowl
4-3A-1: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or
corporation to keep within the town horses, cattle, swine, sheep, goats, mules,
burros, llamas, emus, etc. (Ord. 252, 7-9-1997; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 369, 6-5-
2024)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in
the municipal court of the town, shall be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 252, 7-9-1997; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308,
10-7-2009)
4-3A-2: ANIMAL WASTE REMOVAL:
   A.   Animal Waste: A person owning, keeping, possessing or harboring any
animal must remove and dispose of, in a prompt and sanitary manner, feces left
by the animal on any public property or any private property not owned or
lawfully occupied by such person.
   B.   Property: An animal owner is responsible for keeping his or her
property free and clear of animal waste to prevent potential harm to the public
health, as determined by any town law enforcement officer, or his or her
designee. If a determination is made that a potentially dangerous situation to
the public's health exists, a notice of violation or citation may be issued.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, persons, firm or corporation violating this
section shall be deemed guilty of an offense against this section and shall be
fined in the municipal court as provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 305, 5-6-2009)
4-3A-3: KEEPING OF FOWL:
   A.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise
indicates, the following shall have the meanings specified in this section:
 
FOWL: Live chickens or ducks.
 
      2.   Those persons wishing to keep fowl on their property within the town
must apply for a permit.
      3.   The granting of the permit hereinabove set forth shall be in
addition to all other local, state and federal permits, statutes and
regulations regarding the care and keeping of fowl for which a permit is
sought.
      4.   An application for a permit to board or keep fowl within the town
shall be made to the town clerk and shall contain the following:
         a.   Name and address of applicant;
         b.   Plans and specifications addressing the restrictions noted
herein.
         c.   Verification from permittee’s neighbors acknowledging and giving
permission to keep fowl on permittee’s property.
      5.   When, upon review of the application, and the town clerk is
satisfied that the proposed plan meets the requirements and regulations of this
division, and the code of the town, and provided, approval has been received
from the town council a permit shall be issued.
   B.   Conditions And Restrictions Upon Permit:
      1.   Upon the issuance of a permit for fowl (chickens or ducks), the town
clerk may place such conditions and restrictions upon the permit as deemed
reasonable and necessary, including, but not limited to:
         a.   No permittee/family unit shall have more than six (6) fowl
(chicken or ducks).
         b.   Male fowl (roosters) are prohibited.
         c.   Fowl (chickens or ducks) must be kept in a coop in a rear yard
and must remain in the coop or an adjoining fenced enclosure at all times.
         d.   The permit cost is five dollars ($5.00) per fowl housed on the
premises and must be renewed annually January 31st. The annual renewal fee is
five dollars ($5.00) per fowl housed on the resident premises. Permit fees will
offset the cost of as needed inspections by law enforcement, town supervisor or
assistant town supervisor.
         e.   Households with existing council approved chickens on their
property are “grandfathered in” with their existing arrangement for three (3)
years however annual registration of their existing fowl will begin January 31,
2025. On January 31, 2028 “grandfathered in” households will be required to pay
the annual permit fee of five dollars ($5.00) per fowl as long as they house
fowl on their premises.
   C.   Enclosures, which are subject to zoning standards for fence height and
accessory buildings, must comply with any property line setbacks and town
codes. The maximum size of a coop or enclosure may not exceed ten (10) square
feet per fowl and both together may not exceed fifteen (15) square feet per
fowl.
      1.   Fencing, landscape buffering or screening of a minimum of six (6)
feet in height and enclosing the entire perimeter of the coop and fowl exercise
area (yard) must be installed and maintained at all times.
      2.   Provisions for the removal of excrement from the property on a
regular basis; and
      3.   Any other matter which the city council deems reasonably pertinent
or relevant to the issuance of the permit.
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter has
been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
town council.
      2.   Whenever, upon inspection by town representative, it is found that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provisions of this
division or regulations issued under this division, the town shall give notice
in writing to the person to whom the permit was issued that unless such
conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice by the town, the permit will be suspended. At the end
of such period, the town shall reinspect such conditions or practices that have
not been corrected, the town clerk shall suspend the permit and give notice in
writing of such suspension to the person to whom the permit is issued. Upon
receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease keeping fowl.
         a.   Any person whose permit has been suspended or who has received
notice from the town that his permit will be suspended unless certain
conditions are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the town council; provided, that when no petition for such
hearing has been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice
of suspension was served, such license shall be deemed to have been
automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period.
   E.   A permit to keep fowl is specific to the permit holder and the location
of the permit. A person wishing to move fowl to a different property shall
obtain a new permit. A new resident of a property who intends to keep fowl
shall obtain a new permit regardless of whether fowl were kept on the property
or continue to be kept on the property.
   F.   Changes to the standards contained in this section shall require any
permit holder to comply with any new standard, regulation, or condition and no
notice to a permit holder is required prior to enforcement of any new standard
beyond that required for adoption of a new or revised ordinance. (Ord. 369, 6-
5-2024)
ARTICLE B. DOGS
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Definitions
4-3B-2: Dog Licenses
4-3B-3: Tampering With License
4-3B-4: Kennel License
4-3B-5: Running At Large
4-3B-6: Abandonment
4-3B-7: Nuisance Dog
4-3B-8: Cruelty To Animals
4-3B-9: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
4-3B-10: Impoundment
4-3B-11: Right Of Entry
4-3B-12: Hindering Law Enforcement Officers
4-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner
or any other person by means of leash, rope, chain or otherwise.
DOG: All dogs, whether male, female or neutered.
OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping
or harboring any dog.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Shall mean and include:
   A.   Any animal that constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other
animals; one that bites, claws, or attempts to bite or claw any person or other
animal;
   B.   Any animal which attacks, inflicts injury, assaults, bites or menaces
other people or other animals in any public or private place without
provocation;
   C.   Any animal which, unrestrained or inadequately restrained without
provocation, approaches in an endangering or terrorizing manner, any person
upon the street, sidewalk, or any public ground or place; within the animal
control district or other contracted area, whether or not the attack was
consummated;
   D.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
vicious animal fighting or any animal trained for vicious animal fighting;
   E.   A dog which, by its unprovoked actions, puts any person in reasonable
fear of bodily injury or actually injures or attacks any person while such
person is engaged in any lawful activity. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd. Ord. 293,
7-19-2006, eff. 7-19-2006)
4-3B-2: DOG LICENSES:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or harbor any dog
over the age of six (6) months within the limits of the town without having
first obtained a license therefor as provided by this section.
   B.   Rabies Vaccination Required: No license shall be issued under the
provisions of this section unless the applicant therefor shall have first
exhibited to the town clerk-treasurer a certificate or tag issued by a licensed
veterinarian showing that said dog sought to be licensed has, within two (2)
years last past and immediately preceding the date of the application, been
vaccinated for rabies.
   C.   License Expiration And Renewal: Any license issued under the provisions
of this section may be issued at any time during the year and shall expire on
April 1 each year, at which time such license shall be renewed upon payment of
the required fees. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981)
   D.   License Fees: Any person obtaining a license under the provisions of
this section shall pay therefor to the town clerk-treasurer, for each male dog
and for each spayed female dog, the sum of five dollars ($5.00) and for each
female dog not spayed, the sum of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50). (Ord. 168,
6-1-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Penalties For Violation: Any person who shall keep or harbor any dog in
violation of this section, or who shall attempt to evade any of the provisions
hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as
established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308,
10-7-2009)
4-3B-3: TAMPERING WITH LICENSE:
Any person who shall deprive a licensed dog of its tag or collar or shall put a
registered tag on any dog not registered shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308,
10-7-2009)
4-3B-4: KENNEL LICENSE:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or harbor more
than three (3) adult dogs, over the age of six (6) months, on any premises
within the corporate limits of the town without having first obtained therefor
a kennel license as provided by this section.
   B.   License Expiration And Renewal: Any license issued under the provisions
of this section may be issued at any time during the year and shall expire one
year after the date of issue, or on April 1 in the year after the date of
issue, whichever period is shorter, at which time said license shall be renewed
upon payment of the required fee.
   C.   License Fee: Any person obtaining a kennel license under the provisions
of this section shall pay therefor, to the town clerk-treasurer, the sum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   D.   Enclosures:
      1.   Required: Any person holding, or who is required to obtain, a kennel
license, shall provide each adult dog over the age of six (6) months with a
structurally sound, moistureproof and windproof, enclosed shelter large enough
to accommodate and keep the animal reasonably clean, dry, and comfortable and
which provides adequate shelter from the sun and temperature extremes and which
provides adequate drainage such that the animal is free to walk or lie down
without coming in contact with standing water.
      2.   Construction: The enclosure shall be constructed of materials, and
in a manner, to minimize the risk of injury to the animal and the risk of the
animal's escape.
      3.   Size: The following minimum space requirements for each adult dog
shall apply to all enclosures:
 
Size Of Dog                                                  Enclosure Size
                                                             (Square Feet)
   Extra large (over 26 inches at the withers or over 75  48
pounds)
   Large (over 20 inches at the withers or not over 75    40
pounds)
   Medium (over 12 inches at the withers or not over 40   35
pounds)
   Small (12 inches or less at the withers or not over 15 30
pounds)
 
   E.   Maintenance; Inspection: The premises and enclosures of all persons
holding, or required to obtain, a kennel license, shall be maintained in a
reasonably sanitary condition which shall minimize the risk of any animal
contracting disease or parasites or causing unreasonable disturbance or offense
to persons within the town. The premises shall be subject to inspection by the
town at all reasonable times without prior notice. (Ord. 221, 5-1-1991)
   F.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person who shall violate any provision of this section, or who
shall attempt to evade any of the provisions of this section, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4  of this code.
      2.   Upon the revocation of any person's kennel license or kennel license
privileges, the court may order the impoundment of such person's dogs, at such
person's expense, pending compliance with the court's orders relating to
removal of any one or more of said dogs from the town. (Ord. 221, 5-1-1991;
amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
4-3B-5: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to permit the
same to run at large whether licensed or unlicensed. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Penalty: The violation of this section by any person is hereby declared
to be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4  of this code. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd. 2002 Code; Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
4-3B-6: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Definition: "Abandonment" shall include leaving an animal for a period
in excess of twenty four (24) hours without food, water, and reasonable
supervision of the animal's condition.
   B.   Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person or persons to abandon,
release or allow to be released any animal within the town. All animals which
are abandoned shall be considered surrendered to the town for impoundment or
disposal.
   C.   Right Of Entry; Care Furnished By Town: If an animal is restrained or
confined without food, water or proper attention or is injured or threatened
with injury, the town may enter into and upon any property where the animal is
restrained or confined and supply it with necessary food, water or attention.
   D.   Impoundment: If necessary for the health of the animal, the town may
remove and impound the animal, all at the expense of the owner or keeper
thereof.
   E.   Liability: The town shall not be liable to any action for entry or for
taking possession of any such animal. (Ord. 221, 5-1-1991)
   F.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as
established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 221, 5-1-1991; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308,
10-7-2009)
4-3B-7: NUISANCE DOG:
It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper of a dog to allow or permit such
dog to cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any person or persons by
frequent and habitual howling, yelping, barking or otherwise. (Ord. 195, 4-4-
1984)
4-3B-8: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Cruelty to animals shall be prohibited within the town limits:
   A.   Physical Abuse: It is unlawful for any person or persons to wilfully or
maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a stick, chain, club, or
other object; mutilate, burn, or scald with any substance, or otherwise cruelly
set upon any animal; except that reasonable force may be employed to drive off
vicious or trespassing animals.
   B.   Care And Maintenance: It is unlawful for any person or persons to fail,
refuse, or neglect to provide any animal in his charge or custody, as owner of
otherwise, with proper food, drink, shade, shelter, or veterinary care as may
be necessary for diseased or injured animals. Any animal habitually kept
outside shall be provided with a structurally sound, moistureproof and
windproof shelter large enough to accommodate and keep the animal reasonably
clean, dry, and comfortable and which provides adequate shelter from the sun
and temperature extremes and which provides adequate drainage such that the
animal is free to walk or lie down without coming in contact with standing
water. The enclosure shall be constructed of materials, and in a manner, to
minimize the risk of injury to the animal and the risk of the animal's escape.
The shelter and any other spaces accessible to the animal and all bedding for
the animal shall be maintained in a manner which minimizes the risk of the
animal contracting disease, being injured or becoming infested with parasites.
   C.   Requirements For Proper Care: Proper food, drink, shade, shelter and
care shall require:
      1.   Food: Each animal shall, at suitable intervals and at least once
every twenty four (24) hours, receive a quantity of wholesome foodstuff
suitable for the species' physical condition and age, sufficient to maintain an
adequate level of nutrition for the animal;
      2.   Water: Each animal shall, at suitable intervals and at least once
every twenty four (24) hours, receive an adequate supply of clean, fresh,
potable water for the species' physical condition and age. Such water shall be
provided either free flowing or in a receptacle. If water pans or dishes are
used, such pans or dishes shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured
in a manner which prevents tipping;
      3.   Medical Treatment: Each animal shall receive care and medical
treatment for debilitating injuries, parasites and disease sufficient to
maintain the animal in good health and minimize suffering;
      4.   Restraint: If any animal is restrained by a chain, leash, wire cable
or similar restraint, such restraint shall be designed and placed to prevent
choking or strangulation or entanglement with other objects or other animals.
Such a restraint shall not be less than ten feet (10') in length. (Ord. 221, 5-
1-1991)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any provision of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined as
established in
title 1, chapter 4  of this code. (Ord. 221, 5-1-1991; amd. 2002 Code; Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
4-3B-9: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Prohibited: Any owner who shall keep, harbor or allow to run at
large any vicious dog shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as
established in
title 1, chapter 4  of this code. Any dog so found to be a vicious dog shall be
destroyed if found running at large. (Ord. 293, 7-19-2006, eff. 7-19-2006; amd.
Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
   B.   Dangerous Dogs:
      1.   Responsibilities: Upon conviction of an owner, by a court of
competent jurisdiction, of a vicious dog violation, such dog shall be
considered a "dangerous dog". When a dangerous dog is allowed to remain within
the animal control district, the following requirements shall be enforced:
         a.   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit such dog to go beyond
the property of the owner or keeper unless such dog is securely muzzled and
physically restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of three
hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length.
         b.   When off the premises of the owner or keeper such dog shall be
accompanied by a competent person, physically capable of handling such dog.
         c.   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall
be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or dangerous animal run
area must have all sides six feet (6') high and a secure top. If the pen
structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into
the ground no less than one foot (1').
         d.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and inform persons that
a dangerous dog is on the property.
         e.   No person shall possess with the intent to sell, offer for sale,
breed, or buy or attempt to buy, within the animal control district any
dangerous dog.
         f.   Any dangerous dog may be immediately seized and impounded by an
animal control officer or police officer if the owner is in violation of this
subsection B. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable cost incurred
by the town for the care of any dangerous dog if the action by the town of
Lingle is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this subsection B. Any such
dog shall be retained by the town pending the order of an appropriate court.
         g.   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the town to
dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
         h.   Any dangerous dog found upon any property, public or private, not
the premises of the owner, may, if such animal cannot be safely taken up and
impounded by reasonable means, be destroyed by the animal control or police
officer.
         i.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall notify the town of Lingle
within twenty four (24) hours of the animal's escape or release, that the
animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked another animal, or a human being, has
died or been given away. If the dangerous dog has been given away, immediately
upon the conveyance, the owner or keeper shall provide the animal control
shelter with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner. Upon
conveyance, the new owner, if he/she resides within the animal control
district, will be obligated to comply with the requirements of this subsection
B. (Ord. 293, 7-19-2006, eff. 7-19-2006)
4-3B-10: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Duty To Impound: It shall be the duty of all law enforcement officers
of the town to apprehend any dog found by them to be running at large and to
cause such dog to be impounded.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Upon the capture and impounding of any dog, it
shall be the duty of the law enforcement officers to notify the owner thereof,
if such owner can be ascertained, which notice may be given by telephone or in
person, and shall advise of the fact of the capture and the date of the
impounding of said dog. If the owner of any dog so captured and impounded is
unknown or notice cannot be given to such owner, then and in such event notice
shall be given by posting the same at three (3) or more conspicuous places
within the town, describing the dog so impounded and the place and time of
taking such dog. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981)
   C.   Redemption By Owner; Fees: The owner of any dog so impounded may
reclaim such dog upon payment of all costs and charges incurred by the town for
impounding and maintaining said dog, which charges are hereby fixed as follows:
 
For apprehending and impounding any dog                         $10.00
If the same dog shall be impounded a second time                25.00
If the same dog shall be impounded a third time                 50.00
For each 24 hours or portion thereof that any dog is impounded  5.00
For giving or posting notice                                    5.00
 
   (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
No unlicensed dog may be reclaimed, unless the person reclaiming the dog shall
pay, in addition to the charges fixed above, the required license fees to
properly license such dog in accordance with this article.
   D.   Failure To Reclaim: Any dog impounded under the provisions of this
article which shall not have been reclaimed as herein provided within five (5)
days after being impounded shall be destroyed. Any person, whether he be the
owner thereof or not, may, after three (3) days, redeem any dog impounded.
(Ord. 168, 6-1-1981)
4-3B-11: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
In the enforcement of any of the provisions of this article, any law
enforcement officer of the town is authorized to enter the premises of any
person and take possession of licensed or unlicensed dogs when in fresh pursuit
of such dog at the time the dog goes upon private property. (Ord. 168, 6-1-
1981)
4-3B-12: HINDERING LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
Any person who shall hinder any law enforcement officer in the discharge of his
duties as provided in this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 168, 6-1-1981; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308,
10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 4
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definition
4-4-2: Prohibited Acts
4-4-3: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "controlled substance" means, for the purpose of this chapter, all
drugs and substances defined in Wyoming Statutes subsection 35-7-1002(a)(iv),
whether listed by official name, generic, common or usual name, chemical name,
brand or trade name. (Ord. 270, 8-22-2001; amd. 2002 Code)
4-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person to possess an opium pipe or any device,
contrivance, instrument, or paraphernalia designed for use or principally used
for smoking a controlled substance. It is also unlawful for any person to
possess a hypodermic needle or syringe, or any other device, contrivance,
instrument or paraphernalia designed for use or used for injecting a controlled
substance except:
   A.   Licensed drug manufacturers, wholesale drug jobbers, pharmacists,
physicians, dentists, podiatrists and veterinarians and nurses;
   B.   Hospital research, teaching and clinical laboratories personnel,
funeral directors and embalmers;
   C.   Persons specifically authorized by a licensed physician or dentist or
podiatrist to use a hypodermic needle or syringe for medical treatment
purposes, while so using the needle or syringe; and
   D.   Persons using a hypodermic needle or syringe for the treatment of
livestock. (Ord. 270, 8-22-2001)
4-4-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 270, 8-22-2001; amd. 2002 Code; Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
4-5-1: Hours; Exceptions
4-5-2: Notification
4-5-3: Parental Responsibility
4-5-4: Misdemeanor
4-5-5: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: HOURS; EXCEPTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of seventeen (17) years, whether in
a conveyance or not, to be upon the public streets or thoroughfares or in the
city parks or other public places of the city between the hours of ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except for Friday and
Saturday nights, when the prohibited hours shall be from twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight to six o'clock (6:00) A.M., unless one or more of the following
conditions prevails:
   A.   The person is accompanied by a parent or guardian or another adult
having the person's care and custody;
   B.   The person is in the performance of employment or on an errand or a
duty authorized or imposed by his or her parent or guardian; or
   C.   The person is traveling directly to his or her place of residence
immediately after having attended a theater, dance or similar public function,
and attendance at which was approved by his or her parent or guardian. (Ord.
300, 8-22-2007)
4-5-2: NOTIFICATION:
No child apprehended for violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
placed in confinement therefor until the parent, guardian or other person
having the care and custody of such minor person being available shall have
been notified of such apprehension and shall have refused to be held
responsible for the appearance of the minor at a session of the police court at
an hour and day then fixed. (Ord. 300, 8-22-2007)
4-5-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Any parent, guardian or other person having custody of any minor child under
the age of seventeen (17) years who knowingly or through lack of diligence
shall permit such child to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of neglect of such child and upon conviction shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined. (Ord. 300, 8-22-2007)
4-5-4: MISDEMEANOR:
Any minor child under the age of seventeen (17) years who shall violate the
provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined, to which court costs will be added. (Ord. 300, 8-22-
2007)
4-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each and every offense set forth in this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and may be punishable by a fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 300, 8-22-2007; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-
2009)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC 1
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of Parts Of Uniform Act Regulating Traffic
5-1-2: Vehicle License Required; Parking
5-1-3: Operator's License Required
5-1-4: Failure To Observe Signs, Markers
5-1-5: Careless Driving
5-1-6: Speed Limits
5-1-7: Speed Or Acceleration Contest Or Exhibition
5-1-8: U-Turns
5-1-9: Blocking Street Crossings
5-1-10: Engine Compression Brake
5-1-11: Hauling Heavy Machinery Over Streets Or Crossings
5-1-12: Truck And Trailer Parking Limitations
5-1-13: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 31-5-109, 31-5-110.
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF PARTS OF UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC:
   A.   Adoption: The following sections of title 31, Wyoming Statutes, 1977,
as amended, being parts of the uniform act regulating traffic on highways, be
and they are hereby adopted by reference thereto as a part of this chapter:
Sections 31-5-101 to 31-5-110, inclusive;
Section 31-5-112;
Sections 31-5-116 to 31-5-121, inclusive;
Sections 31-5-201 to 31-5-207, inclusive;
Sections 31-5-209 to 31-5-211, inclusive;
Section 31-5-214;
Sections 31-5-216 to 31-5-226, inclusive;
Section 31-5-229;
Sections 31-5-231 to 31-5-232, inclusive;
Subsections 31-5-233(a) to 31-5-233(f);
Subsections 31-5-233(h) to 31-5-233(j);
Sections 31-5-401 to 31-5-406, inclusive;
Sections 31-5-501 to 31-5-513(c), inclusive;
Section 31-5-602;
Sections 31-5-606 to 31-5-607, inclusive;
Sections 31-5-701 to 31-5-706, inclusive;
Section 31-5-901;
Sections 31-5-910 to 31-5-915, inclusive;
Section 31-5-924;
Section 31-5-926;
Section 31-5-930;
Section 31-5-934;
Sections 31-5-950 to 31-5-960, inclusive;
Section 31-5-970;
Sections 31-5-1102 to 31-5-1109, inclusive;
Section 31-5-1112;
Section 31-5-1114;
Sections 31-5-1202 to 31-5-1206, inclusive.
(Ord. 195, 4-4-1984; amd. Ord. 199, 8-15-1984; 2002 Code)
   B.   Copy On File: There is presently on file in the office of the town
clerk-treasurer a copy of the Wyoming Statutes described in subsection A of
this section. The town clerk-treasurer shall keep on file therein a copy of
such Wyoming Statutes for examination. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-1-2: VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED; PARKING 1 :
Only legally licensed motor vehicles and trailers shall be parked on the street
and alleys of the town. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any semitractor or
semitrailer or combination thereof on a residential street.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park for over eight (8) hours
any vehicle, trailer or equipment of any kind which has a GVW rating of over
twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds on a residential street.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park recreational equipment,
boats, boat trailers, travel trailers, pickup campers or coaches, camping buses
or converted trucks, tent trailers, trailers, or livestock trailers on a street
in a residential area for more than forty eight (48) hours. Such items may be
parked or stored on a resident's property in a residential area, provided said
items are not parked or stored in the front yard, excluding the driveway. (Ord.
295, 2-21-2007, eff. 2-21-2007)
      1.   Recreational equipment, boats, boat trailers, travel trailers,
pickup campers or coaches, camping buses or converted trucks, tent trailers may
be parked on the residential streets when used actively during the time period
from the first day of May to the last day of October. (Ord. 301, 5-7-2008; amd.
Ord. 353, 6-9-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-12 of this chapter.
5-1-3: OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person not possessing a valid driver's license to
operate any motor vehicle within the town. Any owner or dealer whose motor
vehicle is operated at any time by a person not possessing a valid driver's
license with his permission shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 4-4-
1984)
5-1-4: FAILURE TO OBSERVE SIGNS, MARKERS:
Any person who wilfully fails to observe any traffic sign, marker, warning,
notice, or direction within the town is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 195, 4-
4-1984)
5-1-5: CARELESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon the streets or
alleys of the town in a careless or heedless manner, or without due caution and
circumspection or at a speed or in such manner so as to endanger or be likely
to endanger any person or property. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-1-6: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Rule: No person shall drive a vehicle on a street at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
   B.   Limits Imposed: Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the limits specified in
this subsection or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum
lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a street at a speed in
excess of such maximum limits:
      1.   Twenty (20) miles per hour when passing a school building, or the
grounds thereof, or a school crossing, during school recess or while children
are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours and providing
that the presence of such school building, grounds thereof or school crossing
is indicated plainly by signs or signals conforming to the provisions hereof.
      2.   Thirty (30) miles per hour on Main Street, on Fourth Street and on
U.S. Highway 26 between the east side of Connely Avenue and its intersection
with Main Street.
      3.   Twenty (20) miles per hour in other locations.
   C.   Changing Limits: The maximum speed limits set forth in this section may
be altered by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council. (Ord.
195, 4-4-1984)
5-1-7: SPEED OR ACCELERATION CONTEST OR EXHIBITION:
   A.   Approval Required; Aiding Or Abetting: No person shall engage in any
motor vehicle speed or acceleration contest or exhibition of speed or
acceleration on any street, alley, or public parking lot within the town
without approval of such use by the mayor and town council. No person shall aid
or abet in any such motor vehicle speed or acceleration contest or exhibition
on any street, alley, or public parking lot within the town without approval of
such use by the mayor and town council.
   B.   Obstructions Or Barricades On Streets And Alleys: No person shall, for
the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an incident to any motor vehicle
speed or acceleration contest upon a street or alley, in any manner obstruct or
place or assist in placing any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
alley without approval of such use by the mayor and town council. (Ord. 195, 4-
4-1984)
5-1-8: U-TURNS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to make a U-turn upon any
street or at any intersection where such practice is forbidden by "No U-Turn"
signs or where such movement cannot be made in safety and without interfering
with other traffic. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-1-9: BLOCKING STREET CROSSINGS:
Every person who shall place, leave, stand or stop any vehicle or object upon
any street crossing, street, alley crossing, alley, or any foot walk across any
street or alley within the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 286, 12-8-2004)
5-1-10: ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE:
No person shall operate or use any vehicle engine compression brake within the
corporate limits of the town. (Ord. 249, 12-4-1996)
5-1-11: HAULING HEAVY MACHINERY OVER STREETS OR CROSSINGS:
Every person who shall drive, haul, or transport any locomotive, engine, or
heavy machinery of any character, along and over any public street or crossing,
so as to cause damage thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
195, 4-4-1984)
5-1-12: TRUCK AND TRAILER PARKING LIMITATIONS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle within the city limits
of the town under the following conditions:
   A.   Offensive Stench: Any vehicle containing beet pulp, filth, straw or
manure, offal, rubbish or other accumulations of material which creates an
offensive stench.
   B.   Explosive Or Hazardous Materials: Any truck or trailer containing
gasoline or other flammable materials such as liquid fertilizer, chlorine gas,
high explosives or other hazardous materials.
   C.   Additional Restrictions: The town council may, by adoption of an
appropriate resolution, restrict the parking of vehicles and provide for the
regulation of traffic within the town as the town council may, from time to
time, deem necessary or advisable and may provide for the placement of
appropriate markings or signs to indicate any such restrictions or regulations.
(Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-2 of this chapter.
5-1-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Jail Time Included: A violation of sections
5-1-5 and
5-1-7 of this chapter and sections 31-5-225, 31-5-229 and 31-5-233 of the
Wyoming Statutes adopted in subsection
5-1-1A of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Per Diem Credit: Upon conviction for the violation of any provision of
this chapter where the judgment of the court imposes a fine or costs, the
defendant may be committed to the county jail until such fine or costs are
paid; and if so committed, defendant shall be credited on such fine and costs
ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each day defendant is confined in jail. (Ord.
195, 4-4-1984; amd. Ord. 199, 8-14-1984; 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Operation Prohibited; Exception
5-2-2: Operation By Order Of Police Officer; Requirements
5-2-3: Penalty
5-2-1: OPERATION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
The operation of snowmobiles upon the public streets, alleys, rights of way and
other public and municipal property within the corporate limits of the town is
prohibited except as set forth in section
5-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 194, 12-21-1983)
5-2-2: OPERATION BY ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; REQUIREMENTS:
The police officer may, by general written order, allow the operation of
snowmobiles upon the public streets and alleys of the town of Lingle when
suitable weather conditions exist, subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Registration: All snowmobiles must be properly registered as required
by sections 31-2-401 through 31-2-409, Wyoming Statutes, 2001, as amended.
(Ord. 194, 12-21-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Driver's License Required: Every person operating a snowmobile within
the town of Lingle shall possess a valid driver's license in accordance with
chapter 7, title 31, Wyoming Statutes, 1977, as amended.
   C.   Speed Limit: The maximum allowable speed limit for snowmobiles operated
within the town shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   D.   Obedience To Traffic Laws: Operators of snowmobiles within the
corporate limits of the town shall be required to obey all traffic laws and
ordinances applicable to motor vehicles.
   E.   Flag: All snowmobiles operated within the corporate limits of the town
shall have affixed thereto, at a height not less than five feet (5') or more
than seven feet (7') above the level of the operator's seat thereon, a flag or
pennant, fluorescent orange in color, with an area of not less than two hundred
(200) square inches. (Ord. 194, 12-21-1983)
5-2-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a misdemeanor and any person
convicted thereof shall be punished by a fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 194, 12-21-1983; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-
2009)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Traffic Rules
5-3-2: Forbidden Practices
5-3-3: Lights And Warning Devices
5-3-4: Number Of Riders
5-3-1: TRAFFIC RULES:
The use of bicycles in the Town of Lingle is hereby regulated by Wyoming State
Statute 31-5, Article 7 titled “Bicycles.” (Ord. 342, 6-5-2019)
5-3-2: FORBIDDEN PRACTICES:
The following hazardous practices classed as misdemeanors are hereby forbidden,
and punishable by fine as hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Riding on the sidewalk;
   B.   Any person under the age of sixteen (16) years carrying any other
person as a passenger on the handlebars or frame of a bicycle;
   C.   Weaving from side to side upon street or public thoroughfare;
   D.   Crossing over any portion of a public thoroughfare within a distance of
one hundred feet (100') in front of any approaching vehicle;
   E.   More than two (2) bicycles being ridden parallel with one another;
   F.   Reckless or trick driving;
   G.   Holding onto any other moving vehicle, while riding a bicycle. (Ord.
195, 4-4-1984)
5-3-3: LIGHTS AND WARNING DEVICES:
Every bicycle which is operated between sundown and sunrise within the limits
of the town shall be equipped with a white light on the front thereof visible
under normal atmospheric conditions for a distance of at least one hundred
fifty feet (150') in front of said bicycle, and shall also be equipped with a
red lamp or reflector tape on the rear thereof, visible under like conditions
for a similar distance to the rear. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-3-4: NUMBER OF RIDERS:
No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for
which it is designed or equipped, except that an adult rider may carry a child
securely attached to his person in a backpack or sling. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Nuisance Declared
5-4-2: Removal By Town Authority
5-4-3: Responsibility For Expense Of Removal
5-4-4: Notice Of Impoundment
5-4-5: Sale Of Abandoned Vehicles
5-4-6: Disposition Of Proceeds Of Sale
5-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Every abandoned or junk motor vehicle and the parts or remains thereof which
are permitted to remain upon the public streets, alleys or ways within the town
or upon any public property within the town for a period in excess of forty
eight (48) hours are hereby declared to be nuisances. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-4-2: REMOVAL BY TOWN AUTHORITY:
Every such abandoned or junk motor vehicle or the parts or remains thereof
which are determined to be a "nuisance" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter shall be taken into custody by the police officer of the
town and removed from such public property, street, alley or way and thereafter
retained and stored in such place as shall be designated by the town supervisor
and disposed of as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-4-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXPENSE OF REMOVAL:
The removal and storage of such motor vehicles as are defined above shall be
done at the expense of the owner thereof. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-4-4: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Ownership Known: If the owner is known at the time of removal and
storage thereof, or can be ascertained from the public registration records,
written notice shall be given by the police officer to such owner promptly
after such motor vehicle is taken into custody by the police officer. Such
written notice shall be given by registered or certified mail or by personal
service. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
   B.   Ownership Unknown: In any case in which the owner thereof is not known
and cannot be determined from the public registration records, notice shall be
given by publication in the official newspaper once a week for two (2)
consecutive weeks. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Contents Of Notice: A written or published notice required by the
preceding section shall describe the motor vehicle taken into custody and
stored as hereinbefore provided, and shall state the date the same was taken
into custody and the place of storage thereof, and shall give notice to the
owner and all interested persons that said motor vehicle may be redeemed by the
owner thereof by the payment of all costs and expenses incurred in the removal,
storage and advertising of such vehicle up to the time of such redemption, and
shall further give notice that if redemption is not made within thirty (30)
days from the date of taking the same into custody, that said vehicle will be
sold without warranty and all expenses incurred in the taking of the same into
custody, storage, advertising and sale thereof shall be paid from such sale
proceeds and the balance, if any, remitted to the owner. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
5-4-5: SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Unredeemed Vehicles: In the event that a motor vehicle taken into
custody and stored as provided in this chapter shall not have been redeemed by
the owner within thirty (30) days after the giving of notice as provided in the
preceding section, the police officer shall sell such abandoned or junk motor
vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder for cash.
   B.   Location, Time Of Sale: Such sale may be held at the location where
said vehicle is being stored, in actual view thereof, or at the premises of the
town hall and shall be held between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
   C.   Public Notice: Public notice of any such sale shall be first given at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of sale, which notice shall specify the
time and place of sale and describe the vehicle to be sold. Such notice shall
further state the name of the owner of the vehicle to be sold, if known. The
notice shall be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the
official newspaper published within the town 1 . (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984; amd. 2002
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-7-3 of this code.
5-4-6: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE:
The sale proceeds received upon the public sale of an abandoned or junk motor
vehicle as herein provided shall be first applied to the costs and expenses
incurred in the removal, storage, and advertising of such vehicle and of its
sale, and the balance, if any, shall be held by the town clerk-treasurer in a
fund to be known as the unclaimed motor vehicle sale fund. Amounts deposited in
said fund shall be held for one year, and if not claimed within said period of
one year, the town clerk-treasurer is then authorized and directed to deposit
the same in the general fund of the town. (Ord. 195, 4-4-1984)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Right Of Adjoining Landowners
6-1-2: Permit Required
6-1-3: Permit Fees
6-1-4: Commencement Of Work After Issuance Of Permit
6-1-5: Location Of Sidewalks
6-1-6: Duty To Clean
6-1-7: Snow, Ice Or Debris On Public Way
6-1-8: Penalty
6-1-1: RIGHT OF ADJOINING LANDOWNERS:
All owners of land adjoining any street, road or other public way may construct
or reconstruct sidewalks or curbs along such street, road or other public way
adjoining such land with the approval of the town council. (Ord. 186, 12-1-
1982)
6-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person or persons, company or corporation owning property
within the limits of the town shall construct or cause to be constructed or
reconstruct or allow to be reconstructed, any sidewalk or curb on any street
within the town until they first receive a permit from the town building
inspector.
   B.   Form And Contents: When a permit is requested by a property owner to
construct or reconstruct sidewalks or curbs, the permit shall be in writing and
shall designate the location, manner of construction, construction material,
width and grade of such sidewalk or curb to be constructed or reconstructed;
provided, that such specifications shall not be such as to require any property
owner to construct a sidewalk or curb of different material or in a different
manner than is required of the owners of other land in the same block fronting
the same street, road or other public way. (Ord. 186, 12-1-1982)
6-1-3: PERMIT FEES:
Every applicant for a permit to construct or reconstruct any sidewalk or curb
shall pay the permit fee in effect to the town at the time such application is
submitted. In the event that a permit is for any reason not issued, such permit
fee shall be promptly refunded to the applicant. (Ord. 186, 12-1-1982; amd.
2002 Code)
6-1-4: COMMENCEMENT OF WORK AFTER ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
When a permit has been issued, as provided for in section
6-1-2 of this chapter, the owner shall, within thirty (30) days after the
issuance of such permit, commence the construction or reconstruction of such
sidewalk or curb and finish the same without delay. (Ord. 186, 12-1-1982)
6-1-5: LOCATION OF SIDEWALKS:
The outside edge of all sidewalks (the edge facing the street or road) shall be
located so as to abut the curb adjoining such street or road unless prior
written approval for a different location is obtained from the town council;
provided, that this section shall not apply to sidewalks existing prior to the
effective date hereof until and unless such sidewalk or sidewalks require
reconstruction; and provided further, that if no curb is in existence, then
such sidewalk shall be located as determined by the town building inspector.
(Ord. 186, 12-1-1982)
6-1-6: DUTY TO CLEAN:
All persons shall keep the sidewalks in front of and adjacent to the tenements
or grounds owned, occupied or managed by them clear of ice, snow, mud, dirt,
rubbish or filth. After any fall of snow, said persons shall cause the snow to
be, within twenty four (24) hours thereafter, removed from such sidewalks.
(Ord. 186, 12-1-1982)
6-1-7: SNOW, ICE OR DEBRIS ON PUBLIC WAY:
No person shall cause or permit snow, ice or other debris to be deposited upon
a public street, alley or right of way without prior written approval from the
governing body. Any such deposit shall be prima facie evidence that it was so
placed by the owner, occupant or manager of the adjacent tenements or grounds.
(Ord. 186, 12-1-1982)
6-1-8: PENALTY:
The violation of sections
6-1-6 and
6-1-7 of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, the offender shall be punished by a fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 186, 12-1-1982; amd. 2002 Code; Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 2
TREES, SHRUBS AND OTHER PLANTS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Tree Board
6-2-3: Planting, Growing, Cultivating And Maintenance
6-2-4: Street Tree Species
6-2-5: Spacing
6-2-6: Required Distances
6-2-7: Utilities
6-2-8: Public Tree Care
6-2-9: Pruning, Corner Clearance
6-2-10: Dead Or Diseased Trees
6-2-11: Removal Of Stumps
6-2-12: Aborists
6-2-13: Review By Town Council
6-2-14: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names and all areas owned by the town or to which the
public has free access as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the town. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-2: TREE BOARD:
   A.   Created And Establishment: There is hereby created and established a
town tree board which shall consist of three (3) members, citizens and
residents of this town, who shall be appointed by the mayor.
   B.   Term Of Office; Vacancy: The term of the tree board members shall be
three (3) years except that the term of one of the members appointed to the
first board shall be for only one year and the term of one of the members of
the first board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
   C.   Operation: The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations, subject to the approval of the town council, and keep a
journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
   E.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Official Comprehensive Town Tree Plan: It shall be the
responsibility of the board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or
update annually, and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in
parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented
annually to the town council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive town tree plan for the town of Lingle,
Wyoming.
      2.   Special Matters Of Question: The board, when requested by the town
council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon
any special matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
   F.   Interference With Tree Board: It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent, delay or interfere with the town or the tree board, or any of their
agents, while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park trees, or trees on
public or private grounds, as authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-3: PLANTING, GROWING, CULTIVATING AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Parkway: No trees, shrubs or plants shall hereafter be planted within
the corporate limits of the town of Lingle, in the parkway, that is between the
curb and sidewalk, closer than eighteen feet (18') from any corner except those
trees, plants or shrubs which do not exceed three feet (3') in height.
   B.   Obstruction Of Sidewalk, Traffic Control Signs Or Signals Or
Visibility: All trees, shrubs and plants which may now or hereafter be planted,
grown, cultivated or maintained anywhere within the corporate limits of the
town of Lingle, shall be kept and maintained in such manner as to not overhang
onto any sidewalk, or to create an obstruction or danger to pedestrians on
sidewalks, nor so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic control signs or
signals, nor so as to impair the vision from vehicles on the public streets and
alleys 1 .
   C.   Notice Of Violation; Failure To Comply: The town clerk-treasurer shall
provide written notice of any violation hereof to the owner or occupant of the
premises. If, within fifteen (15) days after the mailing of said written
notice, such owner or occupant has not corrected the violation, the town may
trim or remove the trees, shrubs or plants in violation hereof, or may hire
such trimming or removal, charging the cost thereof as a special bill for
garbage removal. Should such bill not be paid promptly, the same shall become a
lien against such property and collectable as such. (Ord. 169, 7-17-1981)
   D.   Violation; Fine: Any person responsible for such failure to comply with
the provisions of this section shall, in addition to the expenses provided for
in subsection C of this section, be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, and each planting or growth which may be in
violation thereof shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 169, 7-17-1981;
amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
   E.   Damage To Property: In the event that any tree, shrub or plant, whether
in violation of any other provision of this section or not, shall directly
cause any damage to any property of the town of Lingle, the amount of such
damage shall become a lien on said property and shall be collectable as such.
(Ord. 169, 7-17-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-9-1 of this code.
6-2-4: STREET TREE SPECIES:
The following list constitutes the official street tree species for Lingle,
Wyoming. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without the written permission of the town tree board:
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees      Medium Trees            Large Trees
Apple            Apple                   Blue spruce
Buffalo berry    Ash, green              Cedar
Cherry           Ash, white              Coffeetree
Chokecherry      Aspen                   Cottonwood (cottonless)
Crabapple        Birch                   Juniper
Hawthorne        Black locust            Maple, silver
Lilac            Catalpa                 Maple, sugar
Mountain ash     Cherry                  Oak
Peach, flowering Hackberry               Pine
Plum             Honeylocust (thornless) Poplar
Redbud           Linden or Basswood      Walnut
Serviceberry     Mulberry
Soapberry        Osageorange (thornless)  
                Pagodatree, Japanese     
                Persimmon                
                Poplar                   
                Sassafras                
 
(Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-5: SPACING:
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three (3) species
size classes listed in section
6-2-4 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following:
   A.   Small trees: Twenty feet (20');
   B.   Medium trees: Thirty feet (30'); and
   C.   Large trees: Forty feet (40') except in special plantings approved by
the board. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-6: REQUIRED DISTANCES:
   A.   Curb And Sidewalk: No trees may be planted closer than four feet (4')
to any curb or sidewalk. Large trees shall not be planted closer than six feet
(6') to any curb or sidewalk.
   B.   Street Corners And Fireplugs:
      1.   Street Corner: No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty
feet (30') from any street corner, measured from the point of nearest
intersecting curbs or curb lines.
      2.   Fireplug: No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10')
from any fireplug. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-7: UTILITIES:
No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in section
6-2-4 of this chapter may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. (Ord.
224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-8: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
   A.   Town's Rights: The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain
and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
   B.   Unsafe Trees: The town tree board may remove or cause or order to be
removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by
reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines, or other public improvements, or is infected with any injurious
fungus, insect or other pest. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-9: PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE:
   A.   Pruning Required: Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or
right of way within the town shall prune the branches so that such branches
shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any
traffic sign or signal or any street intersection and so that there shall be a
clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of the street or sidewalk.
   B.   Dead, Diseased Or Dangerous Trees: Such owners shall remove all dead,
diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public.
   C.   Town's Right To Prune: The town shall have the right to prune any tree
or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light
along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any
traffic signal, sign or any street intersection 1 . (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-9-1 of this code.
6-2-10: DEAD OR DISEASED TREES:
   A.   Right To Cause Removal: The town shall have the right to cause the
removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the town when
such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or
disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the town.
   B.   Notice To Remove: The town tree board will notify, in writing, the
owners of such trees.
   C.   Removal By Owner: Removal shall be done by such owners at their own
expense within sixty (60) days after the date of service of notice.
   D.   Failure To Comply: In the event of failure of owner to comply with such
provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge
the cost of removal to the owners. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-11: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground, without permission from the board. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-12: ARBORISTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage
in the business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park
trees within the town without first applying for and procuring a license.
   B.   License Fee: The license fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00)
annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be required of
any public service company, town or tree board employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   C.   Liability Insurance: Before any license shall be issued, each applicant
shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum
amounts of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury and
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage, indemnifying the town or
any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-13: REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL:
The town council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the town tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the
town tree board to the town council. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992)
6-2-14: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction or
a plea of guilty, subject to a fine as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 224, 3-4-1992; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 308,
10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL CEMETERY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: General Rules
6-3-3: Cemetery Management; Present Subdivision Approved
6-3-4: Deeds To Purchasers; Form
6-3-5: Sale And Price Of Lots
6-3-6: Perpetual Care
6-3-7: Conditions For Interment
6-3-8: Interments And Removals
6-3-9: Blocks, Lots And Burial Spaces
6-3-10: Care Of Cemetery
6-3-11: Records
6-3-12: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms and
phrases shall have these meanings:
BURIAL SPACE: One or more spaces in the cemetery in which a human body or
bodies may be buried.
CEMETERY: The Lingle Cemetery, Lingle, Wyoming.
INSIDE LOTS: Those lots which do not border on a street within the cemetery.
MONUMENT: A tombstone, grave marker, headstone, or burial vault partially
aboveground or a combination of these.
OUTSIDE LOTS: Those lots which border on a street or streets within the
cemetery. All burial spaces within lots which border on a street or streets
shall be sold at the fee set for outside lots.
RULES: Any or all of the provisions of this chapter.
TOWN: The town of Lingle, Goshen County, Wyoming. (Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
6-3-2: GENERAL RULES:
   A.   Power To Open And Close: The town supervisor may open and close the
cemetery when in his judgment the appropriate use of the cemetery requires it.
   B.   Oversight; Funerals: The town supervisor has the general oversight of
the cemetery and shall fix the time and day of all funerals in the cemetery.
   C.   Firearms Or Weapons: No firearms or weapons of any description, except
those carried by police officers in the performance of police duties or for
disposing of rodents or pests or those borne by an organized honor guard or
firing squad, may be brought to, carried in or fired within the cemetery.
   D.   Operation Of Motor Vehicles: No person may operate or travel in a motor
vehicle of any type whatever within the cemetery except on the regularly laid
out streets or roads, except for maintenance and opening and closing of graves.
   E.   Open To The Public: No person shall be allowed to be present in the
cemetery between sundown and sunrise each day without written permission from
the town supervisor. (Ord. 309, 10-7-2009)
6-3-3: CEMETERY MANAGEMENT; PRESENT SUBDIVISION APPROVED:
   A.   Management: The Lingle Cemetery shall be managed, operated and
maintained by the town supervisor under the supervision and control of the
mayor and town council.
   B.   Present Subdivision: The present subdivision of the cemetery, into lots
and blocks, as shown by the plat thereof on file in the office of the county
clerk of Goshen County, Wyoming, is hereby approved and confirmed. (Ord. 164,
11-4-1980)
6-3-4: DEEDS TO PURCHASERS; FORM:
The mayor and town clerk-treasurer are hereby authorized and directed to
execute and deliver, on behalf of and in the name of the town of Lingle,
Wyoming, deeds to purchasers of lots and gravesites within the cemetery, upon
receipt of the appropriate purchase price as now and hereafter affixed
therefor; provided however, that deeds so executed and delivered shall be in
substantially the following form:
   DEED
This indenture made and entered into this     day of            , 20     ,
between the town of Lingle, Wyoming, a municipal corporation of Goshen County,
Wyoming, hereinafter called the grantor, and                      of
                    , hereinafter called grantee.
WITNESSETH
This grantor, for and in consideration of the sum of               dollars
($       ) to it in hand paid by grantee, the receipt of which is hereby
knowledged, does grant and convey unto grantee, the following described lot(s)
or parcel(s) of land situated within the Lingle Municipal Cemetery, according
to the recorded plat thereof, to-wit:
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the same unto the said grantee, for the sole purpose of
interment of the dead, and for no other purpose. It is further provided, as an
express reservation and exception from this grant and conveyance, that the lot
(s) or parcel(s) of land herein conveyed may not be resold by grantee at any
time, except to the grantor, its successors or assigns.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, grantor has caused these presents to be signed by its
mayor, and its official seal to be hereunto affixed by its clerk-treasurer, at
Lingle, Wyoming, this        day of            , 20    .
(Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
6-3-5: SALE AND PRICE OF LOTS 1 :
Lots or parcels of land within the Lingle Cemetery shall be sold pursuant to
the following schedule of prices: (Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
   A.   Inside Lots: All inside lots shall be sold at the rate of one thousand
two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) per lot, six hundred dollars ($600.00) per one-
half (1/2) lot, three hundred dollars ($300.00) per one-fourth (1/4) lot and
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per one-eighth (1/8) lot.
   B.   Outside Lots: All outside lots in the cemetery shall be sold at the
rate of one thousand two hundred eighty dollars ($1,280.00) per lot, six
hundred forty dollars ($640.00) per one-half (1/2) lot, three hundred twenty
dollars ($320.00) per one-fourth (1/4) lot and one hundred sixty dollars
($160.00) per one-eighth (1/8) lot; provided however, that outside lots with
dimensions other than twenty feet by twenty feet (20' x 20'), shall be sold at
the rate of three dollars twenty cents ($3.20) per square foot. (Ord. 328, 6-
17-2015)
   C.   Minimum Burial Space: The smallest burial space in the cemetery shall
have minimal dimensions of five feet by ten feet (5' x 10'). (Ord. 164, 11-4-
1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  6-3-7F of this chapter for sale to nonresidents.
6-3-6: PERPETUAL CARE:
All lots hereafter sold in the municipal cemetery shall be sold with perpetual
care and shall have a onetime fee for such perpetual care in the amount of two
hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 328, 6-17-2015)
6-3-7: CONDITIONS FOR INTERMENT:
No deceased person shall be interred in the cemetery until the town clerk-
treasurer has determined that the following conditions have been met:
   A.   Death Certificate Obtained: A proper form of death certificate has been
obtained from the attending physician or county health officer;
   B.   Lot Paid For: The lot in which burial is to be made is fully paid for;
   C.   Proper Record Made: Proper record has been made of the name and age of
the deceased person and of the exact location of the grave;
   D.   Burial Vault Required: No deceased person shall be interred in the
cemetery except in a burial vault or other outside container constructed of
steel, fiberglass or concrete;
   E.   Nonresidents: No nonresident decedent of the town shall be buried in
the cemetery unless:
      1.   Such nonresident decedent was, at the time of passage hereof, the
owner of the burial space therein; or
      2.   Such nonresident decedent was the spouse or child of a person owning
a burial space or spaces in the cemetery and said nonresident decedent is to be
interred in such burial space or spaces; or
      3.   On the behalf of such nonresident decedent, a burial space or spaces
is purchased for the fee set forth in subsection F of this section; (Ord. 164,
11-4-1980)
   F.   Sale And Price Of Lots For Nonresidents: Any nonresident of Goshen
County desiring to purchase a burial space in the cemetery, after the effective
date hereof, shall pay therefor double the fees set forth in section
6-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 6-17-2015)
6-3-8: INTERMENTS AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Subject To Rules And Regulations: All interments, disinterments and
removals in or from the cemetery are subject to these rules, the ordinances and
statutes of the state of Wyoming, town of Lingle and the county of Goshen.
   B.   Under Supervision Of Town Supervisor And Licensed Mortician:
Interments, interment services, disinterments and removals shall be under the
direction of the town supervisor and only at the time and in the manner he
permits, and according to the laws and under the supervision of a licensed
mortician.
   C.   Court Permission Required: Once a casket or any container containing a
body is brought within the cemetery's boundaries, no person may open the casket
or touch the body without first obtaining court permission to do so or
permission from the legal representatives of the deceased.
   D.   Personal Or Written Instructions; Mistakes: The town supervisor may
require personal or written instruction concerning a particular burial space or
the size or location in a plot where interment is desired. Neither the town nor
the town supervisor is liable for any mistake occurring because of a request or
order being made by telephone.
   E.   Persons Allowed At Disinterment: When a disinterment is made, the town
supervisor shall permit only the following persons to be present:
      1.   Members of the immediate family of the deceased and their designated
representatives;
      2.   The mortician conducting the disinterment;
      3.   An official authorized by court order;
      4.   Any other persons specifically authorized by law or court order.
   F.   Right To Correct Errors: The town shall, at all times, have the right
to correct any errors that may have been made in making interment,
disinterments or removals and errors in cemetery deeds. (Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
   G.   Interments On Top Of Another: Under no circumstances shall one person
be interred on top of another. (Ord. 266, 7-5-2000)
   H.   Interment Fees: Interment fees are as follows:
      1.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) per body.
      2.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per cremains container. (Ord. 328, 6-
17-2015)
6-3-9: BLOCKS, LOTS AND BURIAL SPACES:
   A.   Sale By Purchaser: A purchaser may sell the space or spaces which he
owns only back to the town. Such a sale terminates the purchaser's right of use
and all of his title or interest in the space or spaces sold back to the town.
All space sold back to the town must be conveyed by deed naming the town as
grantee.
   B.   Succession Of Ownership: Upon the death of the record owner or owners
of a burial space or spaces in the cemetery, the remaining burial space or
spaces, if any, belong to the heirs at law of the owner. If there are no heirs
at law, the remaining space or spaces escheats to the town.
   C.   Recording Of Sales Or Transfers: No sale or transfer provided for in
this section is valid or binding on the town until it is recorded in the town's
cemetery records. (Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
6-3-10: CARE OF CEMETERY:
   A.   Direction And Supervision Required: All grading, general landscape
work, improvements, all openings and closing of graves, and all interments,
disinterments and removals shall be made under the direction of the town
supervisor and the town council and mayor.
   B.   Flowers, Shrubs, Trees Or Other Plants:
      1.   Permission To Plant Required: No person may plant any flowers,
shrubs, trees or other plants in any burial space or spaces or elsewhere in the
cemetery without first securing the permission of the town supervisor or town
council and mayor.
      2.   Removal By Town Supervisor: The town supervisor may remove any
plantings made without owner's permission. The town and its employees shall not
be liable for such removal.
   C.   Removal Of Floral Arrangements, Designs:
      1.   Power To Remove: Floral arrangements and designs, flowers, shrubs,
trees, weeds or any herbage or any plastic or other representations of any of
these may be removed by the town supervisor or his employees whenever he judges
them unsightly, dangerous, detrimental, diseased or distracting from the
general appearance of the cemetery.
      2.   Liability Of Town:
         a.   Flower Pieces, Baskets Or Frames: Neither the town nor any of its
employees or agents shall be liable for flower pieces, baskets or frames in
which such floral pieces for funeral services are held.
         b.   Lost, Misplaced Flowers And Vases: Neither the town nor its
employees or agents shall be liable for lost, misplaced, broken or otherwise
damaged flowers and vases.
         c.   Plants Or Herbage: Neither the town nor its agents or employees
shall be responsible for frozen plants or herbage of any kind or for plantings
damaged by the elements, drought, lack of water, thieves, vandals or any other
causes beyond its control.
   D.   Glass Containers And Urns: Glass containers and urns of all kinds shall
not be placed anywhere in the cemetery unless authorized by the town
supervisor.
   E.   Liability For Delay In Interment: Neither the town nor its agents or
employees shall in any way be liable for any delay in the interment of a body
where a protest of the interment has not been made before interment or where
the rules and regulations have not been followed.
   F.   Reservation Of Right: The right to replat, regrade, use property,
change boundaries, remove or regrade roads, change location of drives and
walks, alter or change pipelines, gutters or sprinkler, irrigation or drainage
systems, etc., is expressly reserved. The right to use cemetery property not
sold for cemetery purposes is expressly reserved. (Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
6-3-11: RECORDS:
The town clerk-treasurer shall keep full and complete records of the ownership
of all lots in the cemetery, of the burial capacity of each lot, sold and
unsold, of the location of each grave, of the names of the persons buried in
each grave that has been or shall hereafter be used, and the date of the burial
of each person. (Ord. 164, 11-4-1980)
6-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person, persons, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an offense against this chapter and shall be fined in the municipal
court as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 309, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 4
DITCHES AND LATERALS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Conveyance Of Shares
6-4-2: Attorney In Fact
6-4-3: Toll Charges
6-4-4: Watermaster
6-4-5: Rotation Of Use
6-4-6: Acreage Property
6-4-1: CONVEYANCE OF SHARES:
   A.   Ownership Of System: The town is the owner of a system of ditches and
laterals designed to carry and distribute water to the owners of the lots and
blocks of the town as the same have heretofore been designated on plats filed
for that purpose in the office of the county clerk of Goshen County, Wyoming,
by the trustees under the last will and testament of Levi Z. Leiter, deceased,
and Robert A. Walker.
   B.   Conveyance Of Shares: The irrigation water for said property is carried
and delivered to said system of ditches and laterals through the Lucerne Canal
& Power Company canal, and the carrying capacity in said canal is represented
by shares in said company, and the said shares are held in trust for the above
described property by the trustees above named, and said trustees are desirous
of conveying the said shares to the town to be by said town held for the use
and benefit of said property owners.
   C.   Acceptance Of Conveyance; Agreement: In consideration of the premises
stated, the town of Lingle, Wyoming, hereby covenants and agrees with the
trustees under the last will and testament of Levi Z. Leiter, deceased, that it
will accept a conveyance to it of the shares in the Lucerne Canal & Power
Company representing said carrying capacity in the canal company's ditch and
will hold and use the same solely for the use and benefit of property owners in
said town so that each of said property owners will, under proper rules and
regulations and the provisions of this chapter, receive the share of said
irrigation water to which each of said property owners is respectively
entitled. This agreement on the part of the town shall not be construed to
extend to the shares of stock in said Lucerne Canal & Power Company
representing the carrying capacity for water right of acreage property within
the corporate limits of the town which has not as yet been subdivided into lots
and blocks, nor to lands which have heretofore been subdivided into lots and
blocks and the plat thereof subsequently vacated. (Ords. 60 and 61, 11-10-1943)
6-4-2: ATTORNEY IN FACT:
The person who may then be serving as mayor is hereby designated as the
attorney in fact for said town to vote the shares of stock conveyed in the
Lucerne Canal & Power Company which may be conveyed to the town by the trustees
under the last will and testament of Levi Z. Leiter, deceased, and notices of
meeting, calls and assessments made by said Lucerne Canal & Power Company upon
said shares addressed to and served upon the then mayor of the town shall be
binding upon the town. (Ords. 60 and 61, 11-10-1943)
6-4-3: TOLL CHARGES:
   A.   Fixed Annually: The town council will hold, maintain, improve and
operate the ditch and lateral system serving said lots and blocks, and will by
resolution, annually and in advance of the irrigation season, fix a toll charge
to be payable by the owners of lots and blocks receiving water from said system
for the then current year in advance, which toll will be so fixed as to
represent approximately the cost of maintaining, operating and improving said
lateral system by the town, and said toll shall be so fixed and calculated as
not to include a profit to the town for the operation of said system.
   B.   Flat Minimum Charge; Graduated Toll: Nothing herein contained shall be
construed as prohibiting the town from establishing a flat minimum charge to be
required of all water users, or from graduating said toll, depending upon the
number of lots owned and served by a property owner.
   C.   Payable In Advance: Toll charges established by resolution as
hereinabove provided shall be payable in advance to the town clerk-treasurer
and the clerk-treasurer and his bondsmen as such shall be liable for the
safekeeping and accounting for all such funds as may come into his hands.
Receipts from this source shall be and become part of the general fund of said
town. (Ords. 60 and 61, 11-10-1943)
6-4-4: WATERMASTER:
   A.   Designated; Duties: The town supervisor is hereby designated as the
watermaster of the town and shall have general charge of the care, upkeep and
use of the ditch and lateral system named by the town.
   B.   Compensation: The town supervisor shall serve as watermaster of the
town without other or additional compensation for so doing.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: By and with the approval and consent of the town
council, the watermaster may establish rules and regulations governing the use
of said system and the method and manner of drawing water therefrom. (Ords. 60
and 61, 11-10-1943)
6-4-5: ROTATION OF USE:
The watermaster may, in his discretion, under rules and regulations approved by
the town council, rotate the use of water from the town's ditch system among
the several users entitled thereto. The decision of the watermaster on all
questions as to use and distribution of water from said system shall be binding
upon the property owner, subject only to their right to appeal to the town
council and the decision of the town council upon a matter appealed to it by a
property owner shall be final. (Ords. 60 and 61, 11-10-1943)
6-4-6: ACREAGE PROPERTY:
The town will serve from its lateral system any acreage property susceptible of
irrigation from its lateral system upon a toll basis, and in fixing the toll
for acreage property, the town council will take into consideration the fact
that water can be delivered more cheaply to acreage property than it could be
delivered to the same acreage if divided into lots and blocks. The right of the
owners of acreage property to provide their own system of laterals is
recognized, and the owner of acreage property may, following the irrigation
season, withdraw from the use of the town's system of ditches and laterals.
(Ords. 60 and 61, 11-10-1943)
CHAPTER 5
LANDFILL
SECTION:
6-5-1: Reestablished
6-5-2: Rules And Regulations
6-5-3: Removal Of Material From Landfill
6-5-4: Charges
6-5-5: Setting Fires
6-5-6: Use Of Other Places For Disposal
6-5-7: Penalty
6-5-1: REESTABLISHED:
There is hereby reestablished a town landfill ground for the town to be used
only for the disposal of all ashes, refuse, garbage and other waste matter or
materials created within the corporate limits of the town; provided, that the
town may contract to allow the use of the landfill for garbage or refuse
created outside the corporate limits upon property receiving water, sewer and
electrical services from the town. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
6-5-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The town council of the town is hereby authorized to establish rules and
regulations for the operation of the town landfill and its use by the public.
(Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
6-5-3: REMOVAL OF MATERIAL FROM LANDFILL:
All garbage, refuse, waste or matter of any kind disposed of at the municipal
landfill shall become the property of the town, and no person shall separate,
collect, carry off or otherwise remove or dispose of anything whatsoever from
the town landfill ground without the permission of the officer or employee of
the town in charge of the landfill. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
6-5-4: CHARGES 1 :
Fees for use of the town landfill shall be as established by the governing body
from time to time. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 9-5-5 of this code.
6-5-5: SETTING FIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than authorized town employees, to
set a fire within the town landfill. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
6-5-6: USE OF OTHER PLACES FOR DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use land or places within the town,
other than the town landfill, for the purpose of dumping ashes, garbage, waste
and other matter. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
6-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be
fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, to which sum costs of prosecution shall be
added. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
TITLE 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Created; General Duties
7-1-2: Chief
7-1-3: Police Powers
7-1-4: Uniform; Insignia
7-1-5: Obedience
7-1-6: Apparatus
7-1-7: Entering Fire Stations
7-1-8: Interference With Performance
7-1-9: Penalty
7-1-1: CREATED; GENERAL DUTIES:
There is hereby created the Lingle volunteer fire department (LVFD) of the town
of Lingle which shall prevent and extinguish fires, educate the public in all
matters pertaining to fires and fire prevention, care for all fire apparatus
and other municipal property in its charge, maintain paramedic training
currency, provide ambulance services and perform such other duties as may be
assigned to it by the town council. (2002 Code)
7-1-2: CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment: The chief of the fire department shall be elected by the
membership of the department and be confirmed as a courtesy by the mayor and
the town council.
   B.   Term: The chief shall hold office at the will and discretion of the
town council.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Discipline; Enforcement Of Ordinances; Command: The chief of the
fire department shall be responsible for the discipline, good order and proper
conduct of the whole fire department, for the enforcement of all provisions of
this code or other ordinances and regulation of the town pertaining thereto,
and for the care and condition of the houses, fire apparatus and all other
property of the department or in its charge. He shall have command and control
of all officers and members of the department and of all houses, fire and
ambulance apparatus and other property of the department or in its charge.
      2.   Control Of Persons At Scene Of Fire; Summoning Of Aid: The chief of
the fire department shall have control of all persons present at fires, and
shall have power, if need be, to summon all able bodied persons present to aid
in extinguishing any fire, in removing property from any burning and exposed
building and in guarding the same. Any able-bodied person refusing to obey such
summons shall be liable to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   Records; Investigations; Reports: The chief of the fire department
shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of the activities of the fire
department and shall make a thorough investigation or obtain a copy of the
state fire marshal's written report of each fire and brief the town council
monthly, giving in detail, if available, the cause, location, time, owner,
tenant, occupancy, type of building, insurance carried, insurance paid,
building loss, contents and how extinguished, the apparatus used, firemen
present, adequacy of water supply and pressure and any other information of
value.
      4.   Equipment Inventories And Recommendations: The chief of the fire
department, immediately after assuming office and annually thereafter, shall
make an inventory of all property owned by the fire department or in its
charge, noting the condition of each article, which shall be submitted to the
town council, together with recommendations for the purchase of additional
equipment needed and any other recommendations he may desire to submit
affecting the fire department.
      5.   Inspection And Reports On Fire Hydrants: The chief of the fire
department shall annually inspect, or cause to be inspected by members of the
fire department, all fire hydrants and list those needing attention in his next
report to the town council.
      6.   Maintenance Of Department Membership List: The chief of the fire
department shall maintain in the office of the town clerk-treasurer an accurate
list of the members of the fire department and shall report promptly any
additions or withdrawals from the membership.
      7.   Reporting Of Damage To Equipment And Injury Of Members: The chief of
the fire department shall report immediately the loss of or damage to equipment
and accidents involving members of the fire department in the performance of
their duties to the town council. (2002 Code)
7-1-3: POLICE POWERS:
   A.   Powers: The chief of the fire department and members acting under his
orders shall have full and complete police powers and authority within the fire
station, at fires and proceeding to or returning from them in all matters
pertaining to the fire department, and shall also have authority to make
arrests for violations of any provision of this code or other town ordinances,
the enforcement of which is under his jurisdiction. The police officer shall be
subject to his orders at fires and shall cooperate with him in the enforcement
of such provisions of this code or other ordinances of the town of Lingle.
   B.   Fire Limits: The chief of the fire department may prescribe limits at
fires within which no person shall be admitted except by his order. (2002 Code)
7-1-4: UNIFORM; INSIGNIA:
Each member of the Lingle fire department shall wear at all times when on duty
such distinctive uniform or insignia as shall be prescribed by the town
council. (2002 Code)
7-1-5: OBEDIENCE:
Each officer and member of the fire department shall obey without question the
orders of his superior officers at all times while in the fire station or at or
going to or returning from fires. (2002 Code)
7-1-6: APPARATUS:
   A.   Renting Or Loaning: No fire apparatus shall be let out for hire or
loaned in any case without the consent of the chief of the fire department.
   B.   Allowing Apparatus To Go Outside Town: The consent of the town council
shall be required to allow any portion of the apparatus or any company of the
fire department to go outside the town of Lingle unless covered under a mutual
aid agreement.
   C.   Use By Nonmembers: No person not a member of the fire department shall
use any of the fire apparatus at fires or otherwise, unless acting under orders
of the commanding officer. (2002 Code)
7-1-7: ENTERING FIRE STATIONS:
No person shall be allowed to enter the fire station unless accompanied by a
member of the fire department or town employee. (2002 Code)
7-1-8: INTERFERENCE WITH PERFORMANCE:
No person shall interfere in any way with the fire department in the
performance of its duties. (2002 Code)
7-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalties as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STORAGE OF GASOLINE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Regulations
7-2-2: Gasoline Storage Tanks
7-2-3: Conveying Gasoline; Filling Or Emptying Tanks
7-2-4: Penalty
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as principal,
agent or employee to keep more than five (5) gallons of gasoline on his, their,
or its premises at any one time except by securing a permit to do so upon
written application therefor from the building inspector and by complying with
the following rules and regulations:
   A.   Underground tanks shall have the top of the tank no less than two feet
(2') below the surface of the ground, except that, in lieu of the two foot (2')
cover, tanks may be buried under twelve inches (12") of earth and a cover of
reenforced concrete at least four inches (4") in thickness, which shall extend
at least one foot (1') beyond the tank in all directions; such concrete cover
shall be placed on a firm, well tamped earth foundation; where necessary to
prevent floating, such tanks shall be securely anchored or weighted.
   B.   Where such tanks cannot be entirely buried, they shall be covered over
with earth to a depth of at least two feet (2') with a slope on all sides no
steeper than one and one-half feet (11/2') horizontal to one foot (1')
vertical.
   C.   For liquids with a flash point below one hundred degrees Fahrenheit
(100°F), underground tanks having a capacity in excess of five hundred fifty
(550) gallons shall be at least ten feet (10'), and tanks having a capacity in
excess of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be at least twenty feet (20') from
every building, the lowest floor, basement or pit of which is below the top of
the tank.
   D.   Tanks shall be set on firm foundations. Tanks located inside buildings
and exceeding two thousand five hundred (2,500) gallons capacity shall be
supported independently on the floor construction. Tanks located outside
buildings more than one foot (1') above the ground shall have foundations and
supports of masonry or protected steel, except that wooden stanchions may be
used.
   E.   No combustible matter shall be permitted under or within ten feet (10')
of any outside aboveground storage tanks, electric motors, unless of an
approved explosion proof type, and internal combustion engines shall not be
placed beneath tanks or elsewhere within the line of vapor travel. (Ord. 114,
2-1972)
7-2-2: GASOLINE STORAGE TANKS:
   A.   Design And Construction: The design and construction of gasoline
storage tanks shall conform to generally accepted good practices and shall be
approved by the fire warden. Tanks labeled by Underwriters Laboratories,
Incorporated, and tanks conforming to the standards of the national board of
fire underwriters or of the American petroleum institute shall be deemed to
conform to generally good practices. (Ord. 114, 2-1972)
   B.   Location: Notwithstanding any of the provisions contained in this
chapter, no permit provided for under section
7-2-1 of this chapter shall be issued for the storage of gasoline upon any
residential lot within the town nor for the storage of gasoline in any of the
following districts as the same are classified under the zoning ordinance of
the town:
      Zone 1, residential district, class 1
      Zone 2, residential district, class 2
      Zone 3, mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions
   (Ord. 153, 11-7-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-3: CONVEYING GASOLINE; FILLING OR EMPTYING TANKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as principal,
agent, or employee, to convey any gasoline to any building except by an
approved pump designed for that purpose or by the use of an approved metal
safety can free from leaks, and not exceeding five (5) gallons in capacity, or
to fill, empty or open any gasoline tank, can or reservoir of any automobile
within any building or garage within the corporate limits of the town when any
artificial light other than incandescent is, or when any blaze or fire shall be
in the room where and when such gasoline tank, can or reservoir is filled,
emptied or opened; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent keeping in and use from an approved metal safety can of
not to exceed two (2) quarts of gasoline for cleaning purposes. (Ord. 114, 2-
1972)
7-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, either as principal, agent or employee,
failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with or violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, before any municipal judge, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 114, 2-1972; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
7-3-1: Prohibited
7-3-2: Noxious And Bothersome Weeds
7-3-3: Penalty
7-3-1: PROHIBITED:
The open burning of garbage, refuse and rubbish is hereby prohibited within the
town limits. (Ord. 187, 4-6-1983)
7-3-2: NOXIOUS AND BOTHERSOME WEEDS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
7-3-1 of this chapter, the controlled open burning of noxious and/or bothersome
weeds may be permitted, in the sole discretion of the town supervisor, only
under the following conditions:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person wishing to burn noxious and/or bothersome
weeds shall make application for a permit therefor at the town hall on forms
provided by the town. (Ord. 187, 4-6-1983)
   B.   Permit Fee: Each such application shall be accompanied by a required
fee of ten dollars ($10.00), which shall be refunded in the event such
application is denied. (Ord. 187, 4-6-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Requirements For Permit: Before any such permit may be issued, the town
supervisor shall require the notification and approval of the county fire
warden and the town fire chief of the time, manner and place of such proposed
burning. The town supervisor is authorized to determine the time, manner and
place of such burning and may issue, deny, suspend or revoke any such permit,
at any time, in his sole discretion. (Ord. 187, 4-6-1983)
7-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 187, 4-6-1983; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Copies Available
8-1-3: Building Permit Fees
8-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
One copy of the following documents are on file in the office of the town
clerk-treasurer and are hereby adopted as the code of the town for regulating
the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal,
demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance
of all buildings and/or structures in the town of Lingle; providing for
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; providing penalties for
violation of such code, and each and all of such regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, excepting the following changes,
revisions and omissions as hereinafter set forth: (Ord. 175, 10-21-1981; amd.
2002 Code)
   A.   Uniform building code, 1994 edition, International Conference of
Building Officials;
   B.   Uniform mechanical code, 1994 edition, International Conference of
Building Officials;
   C.   Uniform plumbing code, 1994 edition, International Conference of
Building Officials; (Ord. 239, 3-15-1995)
   D.   Uniform fire code, 1997 edition, International Conference of Building
Officials; (Ord. 261, 2-29-2000)
   E.   Uniform code for abatement of dangerous buildings, 1997 edition,
International Conference of Building Officials. (Ord. 257, 6-9-1999)
8-1-2: COPIES AVAILABLE:
   A.   Copies On File: The town clerk-treasurer shall purchase and keep on
file in his office at least one copy adopted in section
8-1-1 of this chapter, where the same shall be on file and subject to
examination by any interested person at any time during normal business hours.
   B.   Copies Available For Purchase: In addition, the town clerk-treasurer
shall obtain such number of additional copies of such codes as may be requested
by interested contractors or other persons and shall resell the same at the
cost thereof to such interested persons making request therefor. (Ord. 175, 10-
21-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
   Table No. 1-A
   Building Permit Fees
Total Valuation                     Fee
$ 1.00 – $1,500.00                 $15.00
1,501.00 – 25,000.00                15.00, plus 0.75 percent on remainder
                                      over $1,500.00
25,001.00 – 50,000.00               191.25, plus 0.50 percent on remainder
                                      over $25,000.00
50,001.00 – 250,000.00              316.25, plus 0.25 percent on all above
                                      $50,000.00
Other Inspections And Fees:
Inspections outside of normal
business hours (minimum charge 2 $25.00 per hour
hours)
Reinspection fee assessed
under provisions of                     25.00 each
subsection 305(g)
Inspections for which no fee is
specifically indicated (minimum      25.00 per hour
charge 1/2 hour)
Additional plan review required by
changes, additions or revisions to     25.00 per hour
approved plans (minimum charge 1/
2 hour)
 
(Ord. 175, 10-21-1981; amd. 2002 Code)
LI733   8-2 ()
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Prohibited
8-2-3: Existing Nonconforming Use
8-2-4: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HOUSE TRAILERS: Any vehicle used or intended for use as a conveyance upon the
public streets or highways, and shall include self-propelled and towed vehicles
so designed, constructed and reconstructed or added to by means of portable
accessories in such manner as will permit the occupancy thereof as dwelling or
sleeping place of one or more persons and having no foundation other than
wheels, jacks or skirting so arranged as to be integral with or portable by
said house trailers.
MOBILE HOMES: Any structure designed for living quarters and constructed in
such a manner to be capable of being transported over the public streets and
highways and which is commonly known and referred to as a trailer or mobile
home unit but shall not include prefabricated houses or modular dwellings
constructed and designed with no wheel base. (Ord. 124, 10-4-1974)
8-2-2: PROHIBITED:
No person who is the owner or occupant of any mobile home or house trailer and
no person who is the owner of any property or dwelling within the town shall
permit any mobile home or house trailer to be located on or adjacent to such
property or dwelling within the town limits; save and except that such mobile
homes or house trailers may be located in regularly equipped mobile home parks.
(Ord. 124, 10-4-1974; amd. 2002 Code)
8-2-3: EXISTING NONCONFORMING USE:
When a property or an existing trailer house or mobile home, at the time of the
passage of this chapter has an existing use or location which is not in
compliance herewith prior to the passage of this chapter, such noncomplying use
or location may continue even though the same be not in compliance with this
chapter. If, however, the use of the property or the location of the trailer
house or mobile home is changed, it shall be changed to a use in compliance
with this chapter and, after such change, it will not be permissible to change
back again to the original noncomplying use or location. (Ord. 124, 10-4-1974)
8-2-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in
the municipal court, shall be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 124, 10-4-1974; amd. 2002 Code; Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
   B.   Separate Offense: Each day that any such violation exists shall be
termed a separate offense and both the person in charge of such mobile home or
house trailer and the owner or occupant of the property on which the same may
be located shall be separately penalized hereunder. (Ord. 124, 10-4-1974; amd.
2002 Code)
TITLE 9
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
ELECTRICAL SERVICE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Authority To Contract
9-1-2: Availability Of Service
9-1-3: Deposits
9-1-4: Point Of Service
9-1-5: New Connections
9-1-6: Reconnections
9-1-7: Resale Prohibited; Exceptions
9-1-8: Tampering
9-1-9: Charges
9-1-10: Penalty
9-1-1: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT 1 :
The town of Lingle, a municipal corporation existing under the law of the state
of Wyoming, owns and operates the electrical distribution system in and about
the town. The mayor and the town council together constitute the legal
governing body of the town and are responsible for the administration and
operation of the electrical distribution system. Together with all other powers
and duties of the mayor and town council, the town council has the authority to
negotiate, or cause to be negotiated, and let contracts as may be required for
the purpose of securing adequate power and energy supplies to meet the needs of
the consumers served by the electrical system and the needs of the municipal
works owned and operated by the town. The mayor of the town has the authority
to, and shall, duly execute each such contract for the town after the same has
been approved by the town council. Further, the mayor has the authority to, and
shall, submit necessary reports, data, schedules and other utility information
as may be legally or contractually required to regulatory agencies,
contractors, or others. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxxiii).
9-1-2: AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE:
Any person desiring electrical service within the town, either for residential
or commercial use, shall be entitled to such service only from the town or
under franchise from the town in accordance with the terms and conditions of
this chapter, except as limited by section
9-1-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-1-3: DEPOSITS:
Each consumer shall, prior to receiving electrical service from the town,
furnish a deposit in an amount as provided for in section
9-1-9 of this chapter. Such amount shall be fixed based on the potential use
and average anticipated monthly bill for each class of electrical connection
and service. Whenever electrical service has been discontinued to any consumer,
and if all charges incurred by such consumer have been fully paid to the town,
then any deposit made by such consumer for obtaining electrical service shall
be returned to such consumer. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-1-4: POINT OF SERVICE:
The town shall provide a point of connection for electrical service at the
distribution pole or pedestal of the town nearest the consumer's property line.
For overhead services, this point of service shall be extended to the first
support structure or pole on the consumer's property. Except as specifically
provided in this chapter, the town shall not install, own or maintain any
electrical lines on private property. Each consumer shall own, and be
responsible for the installation and maintenance of all electrical wiring and
connections from the town's point of service. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-1-5: NEW CONNECTIONS:
Service connection for new construction or new service connection to meet the
increased requirements of an existing consumer shall, in addition to the
required deposit, be subject to the payment of service connection fees, as
provided for in section
9-1-9 of this chapter, and to the following:
   A.   Overhead Service: For overhead service connection, the owner shall
provide suitable support for the attachment of conductors and shall provide the
installation of the meter loop and attachment devices as furnished by the town.
The support and meter loop shall be located as specified by the town supervisor
to provide for the installation of unobstructed service conductors with
adequate clearances. Such support shall be the first support on the consumer's
property and shall be within two hundred feet (200') of the town's distribution
line. The town shall provide, install, and maintain the overhead service
conductors to such support and the meter.
   B.   Underground Services: For underground service connection, the town will
provide and install the service equipment and meter at the nearest accessible
point of its distribution line as determined by the town supervisor. The owner
shall provide the materials and installation from the bottom of the meter to
the service entrance, and shall own and be responsible for the maintenance of
all such wiring. All underground services installed by the consumer within
streets, alleys and utility easements shall be in conduit, and the installation
and maintenance of such services shall be accomplished under the supervision of
the town supervisor.
   C.   Services To Multi-Occupancies: For underground service connections to
multi-occupancy buildings or in high density single-dwelling areas under single
management, the town may extend the point of service to suitable locations on
the owner's property, as determined by the town supervisor, to provide
accessible group metering for individual occupancies. In such cases, the owner
shall provide and install conduit for the service conductors as specified by
the town supervisor. These service connections may be subject to an increase in
service connection fees to recover the town's increased costs. The town
supervisor shall determine the increase based on the town's estimated costs,
and the owner shall agree to and pay for the increased service connection fees
prior to service connection.
   D.   Extension Of Primary System Onto Private Property: For service
connection requiring the extension of the town's primary system onto private
property, the owner shall grant to the town a utility easement of not less than
fifteen feet (15') in width along the line path providing for continuous right
of way. Such service connection shall be subject to an increase in service
connection fees to recover the town's increased costs. The town supervisor
shall determine the increase based on the town's estimated costs and the owner
shall agree to and pay for the increased service connection fees prior to
service connection.
   E.   Extension Of Primary System On Public Right Of Way: For service
connection requiring the extension of the town's distribution system along
streets, alleys, roads and other public accesses more than five hundred feet
(500'), the owner shall agree to pay, by separate contract, the service
extension charge as provided for in section
9-1-9 of this chapter for each one hundred feet (100') of extension in excess
of five hundred feet (500'). This charge shall be paid each month for sixty
(60) consecutive months and shall be in addition to all other applicable
service connection fees and monthly service charges. In the event that
additional consumers are connected for service from the extension, the service
extension charges for five hundred feet (500') of extension per consumer shall
be waived each month for as long as such additional consumers remain connected,
and such additional consumers shall agree to pay, by separate contract, their
share of any remaining service extension charges, prorated per consumer based
on the length of extension to their service connection.
   F.   Underground Primary Extensions: Primary extensions required for new
service connections may be installed underground at the request of the consumer
and upon payment of the underground primary line fee as provided for in section
9-1-9 of this chapter in addition to the charges and fees required in
subsections D and E of this section, and any other applicable fees and charges.
Where the extension is onto private property, the owner shall provide and
install concrete pads for the transformers and conduits as required for the
primary conductor, in accordance with the specifications of the town
supervisor.
   G.   Nonstandard Service Connections: For service connections requiring
capacity in excess of 100 amps for residential and 300 amps for commercial, or
requiring connection at voltages other than the town's standard utilization
voltage of 120/240 single-phase or 240 three-phase volts, the service
connection fee shall be determined by the town supervisor based on the town's
estimated total cost and the consumer shall agree to and pay such fee prior to
service connection. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-1-6: RECONNECTIONS:
The electrical service reconnect fee as provided for in section
9-1-9 of this chapter shall be paid prior to reconnection of any existing
service connection to which service has been discontinued by the town at the
request of the consumer or for nonpayment of electrical service charges. (Ord.
211, 1-20-1988)
9-1-7: RESALE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Connections to and service from the electrical distribution system for the
purpose of purchasing power and energy from the town for resale to others shall
not hereafter be allowed, except for:
   A.   Service to consumers now connected for such service;
   B.   Connection and service to trailer courts or others similarly offering
spaces to rent for temporary occupancy intended for not more than fifteen (15)
days; or
   C.   Connection and service to multi-occupancy buildings under single
management where metering of individual occupancies would be impractical, and
where individual and separate charges for electrical consumption shall not be
made by the owner. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-1-8: TAMPERING:
Any person not an authorized officer or employee of the town and not authorized
by the town or its officials so to do, who in any manner cuts, breaks,
connects, disconnects, tampers with, discontinues or disfigures any of the
poles, wires, attachments, meters, appliances, apparatus or machinery
pertaining to the electrical system of the town shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-9: CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Fixed By Ordinance: The fees to be charged consumers, including the
rates for power and energy service and fees for service connections and
extensions, but excepting those charges based on direct reimbursable costs,
shall be fixed by ordinance of the town. Such fees in effect may be changed by
the town council by ordinance as the needs and best interests of the town may
from time to time require.
   B.   Electric Fund: All fees shall be collected as provided for in such
ordinances and, with any other monies collected for electrical charges, shall
be kept in a separate fund to be used for the payment of the costs determined
by the contracts in effect for the supply of power and energy to the town; and
for payment of the costs of operation, maintenance, repair and extensions of
the electrical distribution system; and for payment of other incidentals, debts
and liabilities of the system. Such funds as may be deemed in excess of the
operating and reserve requirements of the electrical system may, upon
resolution of the town council, be transferred to other municipal uses. (Ord.
211, 1-20-1988)
   C.   Payment Period; Delinquency: Statements shall be due and payable at the
office of the town clerk-treasurer immediately upon receipt of the statement
and shall have a late fee charge of two dollars ($2.00) or one percent (1%) of
the amount due whichever is greater added if not paid by the twentieth of the
month. All bills shall be delinquent if not paid before the tenth day of the
following month after the date the statement was prepared for mailing, and
shall thereafter accrue interest on all unpaid amounts at the rate of eighteen
percent (18%) per year until paid. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Disconnection:
      1.   Power To Disconnect: In the event that any statement for electrical
service shall remain unpaid for a period of ten (10) days after becoming
delinquent, the town supervisor shall have the power to disconnect the premises
served from the electrical system of the town.
      2.   Deposits Applied Towards Delinquency: In such event, any deposits
previously made by such delinquent consumer shall be applied upon the account
due and the balance, if any, returned to such consumer.
      3.   Notice Of Shutoff: The town shall not shut off the electrical
service until the consumer shall have been given seven (7) days' notice in
writing, by regular mail, mailed to his address as shown on the records of the
town, or hand delivered to the consumer.
      4.   Reconnection: In the event such consumer requests resumption of
service, reconnection shall be made upon the payment of the fee and the
furnishing of a deposit as provided for in this section in addition to payment
of any remaining charges not covered by previous deposit.
   E.   Responsibility For Payment: Property owners and consumers or their
agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such place of abode or place of
business shall, each and all, be jointly and severally liable for the payment
of all charges and fees hereunder.
   F.   Failure To Pay; Additional Remedies: Failure to pay any charges and
fees when due shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Collection of the charges and fees fixed under this chapter when delinquent may
be enforced by civil action at law brought by the town or an accredited
collection agency for the town in any court of competent jurisdiction. This
remedy is cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to all
penalties provided by the town ordinances for any violation of any provisions
hereof.
   G.   Lien: All delinquent charges and fees shall be a lien upon the property
served from the date of delinquency.
   H.   Change Of Ownership Or Occupation: No change of ownership or occupation
shall affect the application of this section. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-5-1 of this title.
9-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be
fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code; Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE 1
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Reservation Of Rights
9-2-3: Rules And Regulations
9-2-4: Permit Required For Connection
9-2-5: Service Lines
9-2-6: Mains
9-2-7: Fire Hydrants
9-2-8: Inspections
9-2-9: Records And Reports
9-2-10: Restrictions On Use
9-2-11: Prohibited Acts
9-2-12: Discontinuance Of Service
9-2-13: Extension Outside Corporate Limits
9-2-14: Charges
9-2-15: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 15-1-103(a)(xxx) and 15-7-601 et seq.
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
WATER SERVICE LINE: The line running from the municipal water main to the
structure or property to be served.
WATER UTILITY: All water and water rights, waterworks and appurtenances
thereto, machinery, equipment and supplies used by the municipality to supply
consumers with water; provided, that the water service line from the water main
to the structure or property served shall be regarded as the property of the
owner of such structure or property served. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-2: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
The use of water under the provisions of this chapter shall not constitute or
be deemed to be a relinquishment of any water or water right by the
municipality, and the municipality reserves the full right to determine all
matters in connection with the control and use of such water. (Ord. 211, 1-20-
1988)
9-2-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Power To Promulgate: The town supervisor may, from time to time,
promulgate such rules and regulations as he considers necessary to carry out
the intent of this chapter; provided, that such rules and regulations are not
inconsistent with this chapter.
   B.   Agreement To Rules By Consumer: No person may be served with water from
the water utility unless he agrees to all the rules and regulations of the town
pertaining to the use of such water. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-4: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION:
   A.   Required: Any person desiring to make a connection to the water utility
or to use water therefrom shall make written application to the town supervisor
for a permit to do so and shall not make such connection without such permit.
   B.   Types Issued: There shall be four (4) types of permits to make
connections with the water utility of the town:
      1.   Normal Purposes: A permit for the purpose of connecting water
service line from a main of the water utility to the property to be served for
the purpose of taking and using water for normal municipal purposes, i.e.,
domestic, commercial or industrial;
      2.   Enlarged Tap: A permit to connect an enlarged tap to the water
utility for the purpose of taking and using water for normal municipal
purposes, i.e., domestic, commercial or industrial;
      3.   Service Outside Corporate Limits: A permit to take or use water from
the water utility to serve property situated outside the town. This permit
shall be issued only with the express consent of the town council and under
such terms and conditions as the town council shall provide by resolution;
      4.   Frostproof Vault: A permit to install a frostproof vault, riser and
necessary appurtenances.
   C.   Application: The application for a permit to make connection to the
water utility shall state the name of the person to whom the permit is to be
issued, the size of the tap, corporate cock and water service line, the
location thereof, the premises upon which water is to be used and the purpose
for which the water is to be used.
   D.   Payment Of Charges: In all cases where a charge is provided by law for
making a connection to the water utility, the amount of the charge shall be
tendered to the town when the application for the connection permit is made.
   E.   Issuance; Contents: Permits required by subsection A of this section
shall be issued by the town supervisor and shall state the name of the person
to whom the permit is issued, the date of the permit, the size of the tap,
corporation cock and water service line, the premises upon which the water is
to be used and the purpose for which the water is to be used and the date of
required completion of all work under the permit. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-5: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Installation: No person other than a plumber licensed by the town, or
the owner of the property if authorized by the town supervisor, shall install a
water service line, including a meter vault and a meter riser.
   B.   Written Permission Required: No service lines shall be installed
without having first obtained written permission from the town.
   C.   Costs: Any service line from a main to a structure to be served shall
be installed by the water user at his expense.
   D.   Required Prior To Paving Streets 1 : Before any street containing a
water line is paved, the owners of the property abutting upon the street shall,
at their expense, install all service lines with meter vaults and meter risers
which the town determines to be necessary to serve the property when fully
developed.
   E.   Material Specifications: All service lines shall be of suitable
material as determined by the water utility. Corporation cocks, water risers
and service lines shall be of the size as specified by the town. Curb stops as
specified by the town, buried five and one-half feet (51/2') shall be used and
minimum curb box top sections shall be one and one-half inch (11/2") in
diameter.
   F.   Minimum Size: The water service line from the street main to the water
distribution system of the building to be served with water shall be of
sufficient size to furnish an adequate flow of water to meet the requirements
of the building at peak demand, and in no event shall it be less than one inch
(1") nominal diameter.
   G.   Required Depth: All service lines shall be laid five feet (5') below
the established grade of the street from the water main to the meter vault.
When the main is of greater or lesser depth, the service line shall be brought
to the required depth as soon as possible after leaving the tap.
   H.   Approval Of Replacement Services: New services to replace existing
services shall not be approved by the town and the water turned on until old
service lines are dug up and the corporation cock shut off at the main, unless
allowed by the town supervisor.
   I.   Only Town Employees Allowed To Turn On Water To Premises; Exception: No
person, other than an employee of the town shall turn on water to any premises,
lot, building or house when the water has been shut off under the provisions of
this chapter; provided, that this subsection shall not be construed to prevent
any plumber from admitting water to test pipes or restoring service after
repairs.
   J.   Unauthorized Tapping:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by
the town supervisor to tap or connect to any part of the water utility.
      2.   Compliance With Permit: All taps or connections shall be made in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the permit issued therefor.
      3.   Cost: All taps or connections to any part of the water utility shall
be made at the expense of the person making such tap or connection.
   K.   Extension To More Than One Property: Each property shall be served by
its own service line, and no connection with the water utility shall be made by
extending the service line from one property to another property. In cases
where service lines were extended from one property to a different property
prior to adoption of this section, the continued use of such extension shall be
permitted until replacement is necessary, at which time separate connection
shall be made to the water main at the expense of the owner of the property
served by such extension and the extended service line shall be discontinued;
provided, that this section shall not be construed as prohibiting a single
service line to serve a single structure under one roof occupying more than one
property.
   L.   Maintenance: The owner of any property connecting to the water utility
shall be responsible for the maintenance of the water service line from the
water main to the structure being served and shall, at his expense, at all
times keep all pipes, fixtures and appliances on his property tight and in good
working order so as to prevent waste of water.
   M.   Disconnecting Service From Premises: When a water user desires to
disconnect his premises from the water utility, he shall not be permitted to
take up that portion of the service line between the main and the curb stop or
meter vault, nor shall he be permitted to take up the water vault, but, at his
expense, the water shall be shut off at the corporation cock, and all
appliances from the water main to and including the meter vault shall remain in
the ground and become the property of the town. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 9-3-5B of this title.
   
9-2-6: MAINS:
   A.   Shutting Water Off From Street Mains To Make Connections, Extensions:
Water may be shut off from any street main when necessary to repair the main or
to make any connections or extensions of the water mains or to perform any
other work necessary to maintain the water utility.
   B.   Minimum Size: The size of the main required to serve any part of the
town shall be determined by the town. No main less than six inches (6") in
diameter shall be placed in the water distribution system.
   C.   Apportionment Of Costs For Extensions: When water mains are extended,
the property owners benefited thereby, as determined by the town, shall pay all
costs of such extension, together with necessary valves, hydrants and other
appurtenances.
   D.   Financing Extensions To Property Not Part Of New Subdivision:
      1.   Special Assessment: Extension of water lines to serve property
within the town, but not a part of a new subdivision, shall be financed by
special assessment against the benefited property or under such terms and
conditions as the town council shall provide by resolution.
      2.   Amount Of Assessment: Assessments against the benefited property
shall not exceed the actual cost of the extension, including interest, if any,
plus engineering and administrative costs.
   E.   Property To Which Water Main Extended Becomes Subdivision: The town
may, in its discretion, issue a permit providing for the extension of water
mains to property outside its corporate limits; provided, that upon issuance of
the permit, the person requesting the extension shall become a subdivider and
the area owned by such person to be served pursuant to the permit shall become
a subdivision. As a condition to the issuance of a permit, such person shall,
in addition to the provisions of this chapter, agree to conform in all respects
to the provisions of all applicable laws and the ordinances of the town
relating to subdivisions.
   F.   Installation:
      1.   Generally: The subdivider shall install the mains in his subdivision
by private contract, subject to approval of the plans and specifications by the
town, execution of the extension contract provided in this chapter and town
inspection of actual construction; provided, that the town may elect to install
the mains, in which case, the subdivider shall deposit with the town the
estimated cost of installing the mains, plus engineering and administrative
costs. The town may then proceed to make the installation by contract with a
private contractor. In the event that the original deposit is insufficient, the
subdivider shall, upon notification, immediately deposit the balance required
with the town to complete the work.
      2.   Costs; Extent: All water mains required to serve a subdivision,
including cross connecting mains, shall be installed at the cost of the
subdivider. The subdivider shall install mains to the farthest points of his
subdivision.
   G.   Water Main Extension Contracts: For all water main extensions made to
serve any subdivision or area platted after the date of adoption of this
section, the subdivider or owner shall enter into a water main extension
contract with the town.
   H.   Expense Of Extending Service Around Or Through Vacant Property 1 : When
a subdivider finds it necessary to bring water service from the existing water
system through vacant property to his subdivision or construct lines on the
perimeter of such subdivision, the subdivider shall pay the entire cost of the
original construction. At the time of annexation or as the property abutting
such water main is developed and connections are made to the water main, the
town may collect a charge per front foot based upon the original construction
cost and, if so collected, shall reimburse the original subdivider to the
extent of the collection so made. In no event shall the actual amount so paid
to the subdivider by the town exceed the original costs of the extension.
   I.   Period Of Subdivider's Reimbursement Rights: The subdivider's right to
reimbursement under a water main extension contract shall in no event exceed a
period of fifteen (15) years from the date of the execution of such contract.
All payments shall cease at that time regardless of the amount that has at that
time been received by the subdivider.
   J.   Connection Loops And Crossties: Connection loops and crossties within a
subdivision, as determined necessary by the town, shall be constructed by the
subdivider. If the connecting loop is such that property outside the
subdivision abuts such loop or ties and connections are made to such line, the
reimbursement provisions of subsections H and I of this section shall apply.
Connecting loops in the nature of a general improvement of the water system
shall be financed by the water utility. Before any abutting property shall
connect to such mains constructed at the expense of the water utility, a charge
based on the front footage of the property to be served shall be collected by
the town.
   K.   Additional Water Pumping Stations:
      1.   Ownership: When additional water pumping stations or wells are
required to serve new subdivisions, the town council, as a condition to
acceptance of the final plat, may require the installation of the stations or
wells and require the subdivider to execute such instruments as may be
necessary to convey title to the stations or wells to the town upon completion.
      2.   Installation And Cost: The installation and cost of the stations or
wells shall be the responsibility of the subdivider. The town supervisor shall
supervise the construction and determine all matters with respect to the
installation of the stations or wells, including, but not limited to, capacity,
type, design and location, as in his discretion would meet minimum requirements
for fire and domestic demand.
      3.   Oversize Stations: The town may require oversize stations or wells
to serve areas larger than that proposed by the subdivider; provided, that in
such cases the town shall pay the cost of the oversize, which cost shall
thereafter be collected from other subdividers using the stations or wells.
      4.   Responsibility For Operation And Maintenance: Upon completion, the
town shall assume responsibility for operation and maintenance of stations or
wells installed pursuant to this section. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-3-10D of this title.
9-2-7: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Repair; Testing: All fire hydrants shall be a part of the water utility
and shall be kept in repair by the town supervisor or his authorized agents.
Every hydrant shall be tested at least once annually.
   B.   Opening And Operating: No person, other than a member of the fire
department, shall open or operate any fire hydrant without permission from the
town supervisor. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-8: INSPECTIONS:
All plumbing shall be subject to inspection by the town supervisor or his
authorized representatives in order to ascertain whether the requirements of
this chapter have been or are being complied with. It shall be unlawful for any
person to cause any plumbing within or outside the town limits to be connected
with the water utility of the town until such plumbing shall have been
inspected and approved and a certificate or tag of approval issued by the town.
(Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-9: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The town supervisor shall keep such records and prepare such reports concerning
the water utility as the town council directs. The town supervisor shall keep
the town council advised of the operations, financial conditions and future
needs of the water utility. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-10: RESTRICTIONS ON USE:
   A.   Lawn Sprinkling: The use of water from the water utility for lawn
sprinkling purposes may be prohibited or restricted by order of the town
supervisor. Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the order shall
be effective when notice is published once in the official newspaper of the
town. Upon publication of the notice, the sprinkling restrictions or
prohibitions so prescribed shall take effect and any violator thereof shall be
punished as provided in section
9-2-15 of this chapter.
   B.   During Fire Or Other Emergency: In the event of a fire or other
emergency that should require the immediate curtailment of the use of water
from the water utility, the town supervisor, or his authorized agent, shall
have the authority to make such restrictions as he deems necessary for the
protection of the public.
   C.   Use In Commercial Agriculture: The use of water from the water utility
for commercial agriculture is prohibited.
   D.   Use On Property Not Connected To Utility: No person having water
service shall take or use, or permit to be taken or used, water from his water
service for use on property not connected to the town water utility.
   E.   Cross Connections Between Water Utility And Private Well: No person
shall have a cross connection between a private well and a line carrying water
from the water utility. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Damaging Utility's Property, Equipment: No person shall in any way
damage any property, equipment or appliance constituting or being a part of the
water utility.
   B.   Trespass Or Interference With Utility's Property: No person shall
trespass upon the property of the water utility or tap any water mains or make
any connections therewith or in any manner interfere with the water utility or
the property, equipment, pipes, valves or any other appliances of the water
utility or change or alter the position of any valve or appliance regulating
the flow of water in any pipeline.
   C.   Depositing Material In Utility Which Will Obstruct, Pollute Water: No
person shall cast, place, dump or deposit in any part of the water utility, any
substance or material which will in any manner, injure, obstruct the same or
any material or substance which would tend to contaminate or pollute the water
or obstruct the flow of water. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-12: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Failure To Comply: If any water user fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, other ordinances or rules and regulations of the
town relating to the use of water, or the rules and regulations of the town
supervisor for uses of water, the town may discontinue water service until the
water user is in compliance and has paid any costs incurred because of his
noncompliance.
   B.   Failure To Pay Charges: In case any water user shall fail to pay all
charges as prescribed by this chapter, the town shall shut off the water to the
premises, building, house or lot, and water shall not be turned on again until
all charges are paid, together with the charge for shutting off and turning on
the water; provided, that the town shall not shut off the water until the water
user shall have been given seven (7) days' notice in writing, by regular mail,
mailed to his address as shown on the records of the town, or hand delivered to
the water user. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-13: EXTENSION OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   Authority Of Town Council: The town council may, in its sole
discretion, enter into agreements with customers whose lands lie outside the
corporate limits to extend the town's water system and supply water for the use
of such customers.
   B.   Required Findings Prerequisite: Before the town council shall enter
into any agreement to extend the town's water system and supply water outside
the corporate limits, it shall find that:
      1.   The extension of water service is economically feasible;
      2.   The property to be served is readily adaptable to and can be made to
conform, within a reasonable time to be fixed by the town council, to the then
existing ordinances, relating to subdivision, platting, zoning and construction
improvements;
      3.   The extension of sewer service to the property is economically
feasible and can be accomplished within a reasonable time to be fixed by the
town council.
      4.   The area within which the property to be served lies can be
reasonably expected to be annexed to the town within the foreseeable future;
      5.   Such extension would help promote the orderly growth and development
of the town;
      6.   Such extension would help promote the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the town;
      7.   Such extension would help promote ecological and aesthetics
considerations in the growth and development of the town;
      8.   Such extension is generally in the best interest of the citizens of
the town. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-2-14: CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Permit Fee: No person shall connect, or cause a connection to be made
to the water or sewer system of the town without first having obtained a permit
from the town. The permit shall be on a form prescribed by the town which shall
provide that connections shall be made in accordance with specifications and
subject to the supervision, inspection and acceptance of the town engineer or
his designated representative. The permit fees shall be as set by the town
council, from time to time, by ordinance.
   B.   New User, Advance Payment Required: A new water user, upon application
for water service, shall pay in advance the minimum charge for one billing
period, which shall be credited upon termination of service.
   C.   Monthly Rates: The monthly charge for water taken from the water
utility shall be as set by the town council, from time to time, by ordinance.
   D.   Accounts For Each Property: An account shall be established for each
parcel of property, abode, business or address to which any or all of the
charges referred to in subsection C of this section apply; provided, that
additional accounts shall be established for locations or addresses having more
than one water tap. All accounts under this chapter shall be carried in the
names of the property owner, agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such
parcel of property, business or address.
   E.   Billing Frequency: No less frequently than once each quarter nor more
frequently than once each month, a statement of each account shall be prepared
and sent to the name and mailing address appearing on each account; provided,
that any property owner, agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee in whose name there
is an account may request, in writing, that the statement be addressed to a
banking institution.
   F.   Prorating Statements: Statements for periods of less than one month,
including charges or fees, which are expressed as monthly charges or fees,
shall be prorated to the nearest one-half (1/2) month to reflect the actual
period of time for which services were received. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
   G.   Payment Period; Delinquency: Statements shall be due and payable at the
office of the town clerk-treasurer immediately upon receipt of the statement
and shall have a late fee charge of two dollars ($2.00) or one percent (1%) of
the amount due whichever is greater added if not paid by the twentieth of the
month. All bills shall be delinquent if not paid before the tenth day of the
following month after the date the statement was prepared for mailing, and
shall thereafter accrue interest on all unpaid amounts at the rate of eighteen
percent (18%) per year until paid. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
   H.   Responsibility For Payment: Property owners or the owner, agent,
tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such place of abode or place of business
shall, each and all, be jointly and severally liable for the payment of all
charges and fees hereunder.
   I.   Failure To Pay; Additional Remedies: Failure to pay any charges and
fees when due shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Collection of the charges and fees fixed under this chapter when delinquent may
be enforced by civil action at law brought by the town or an accredited
collection agency for the town in any court of competent jurisdiction. This
remedy is cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to all
penalties provided by the town ordinances for any violation of any provisions
hereof.
   J.   Lien: All delinquent charges and fees shall be a lien upon the property
served from the date of delinquency.
   K.   Change Of Ownership Or Occupancy: No change of ownership or occupation
shall affect the application of this section.
   L.   Disconnection Or Reconnection Fee: When water is once turned on to any
premises, there shall be charges, as established by the ordinances of the town,
for water shutoff and turn on. Turn on shall not be accomplished unless the
owner or occupant is present on the premises. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-5-2 of this title.
9-2-15: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be
fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, to which sum costs of prosecution shall be
added. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
ARTICLE A. WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Purpose And Intent
9-2A-2: Definitions
9-2A-3: Waste Of Water Prohibited; Suspension Of Certain Turf Grass
Requirements
9-2A-4: Authorization To Implement
9-2A-5: Stage I Shortage
9-2A-6: Stage II Shortage
9-2A-7: Stage III Shortage
9-2A-8: Duration Of Water Use Restrictions
9-2A-9: Alternative Water Management Plans
9-2A-10: Exceptions
9-2A-11: Water Conservation Fund
9-2A-12: Access To Premises
9-2A-13: Liability
9-2A-14: Violations And Charges
9-2A-15: Water Use Reduction Requirements
9-2A-16: Dispute Resolution
9-2A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this article to proactively establish
procedures for systematically managing water demand through measures designed
to restrict water use and reduce water waste during a system constraint or
drought related shortage. The procedures listed in this article are designed to
be used during atypical and irregular events, and are not intended for use as a
substitute for developing water supply projects or long term conservation
programs. This article shall be liberally construed to effectuate this purpose
and intent. Nothing in this article may be construed to prohibit any person
having a direct legal right or owning an appropriate water right from using
water in accord with the express terms and conditions of any permit to use or
appropriate water issued under authority of the state engineer or pursuant to
any lawful court order or decree. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms as
used in this article, shall have the following meanings:
EXPECTED YIELD: The projected amount of water available for delivery to water
customers. This projected amount is utilities' best estimate of water
availability and is based on analysis of historic trends, current and expected
weather conditions, snowpack levels, system modeling, engineering judgment as
well as other relevant factors.
HAND WATERING: The use, expenditure, or application of water supplied to a
water customer through a handheld hose connected to a piping system where the
water is used for any exterior purposes or is otherwise expended outside any
dwelling, building or structure.
IRRIGATE: To apply or to expend water onto land, whether by channels, by
flooding, by sprinkling, or by any other means whatsoever, except hand
watering. This term shall also refer to any act of irrigation.
LANDSCAPE: Rock areas, mulch and any combination of living plants, such as
trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers or turf grass.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not meeting state drinking water standards that can
include, but not limited to, water from streams, rivers, lakes or ground water.
POTABLE WATER: Water suitable or intended for human consumption.
PROJECTED DEMAND: The expected levels of water demand placed upon the water
supply system assuming no additional restrictions. This projected amount is
utilities' best estimate based on historic trends, current and expected weather
conditions, snowpack levels, system modeling, engineering judgment as well as
other relevant factors.
SHORTAGE: The actual demand for water placed upon the water supply system by
water customers exceeds the actual yield, where the actual yield of water is
the amount of water available for delivery from utilities' local storage for
subsequent delivery to water customers.
STAGE I SHORTAGE: The lowest level of water restrictions intended to reduce
water demand placed upon the water supply system.
STAGE II SHORTAGE: The intermediate level of water restrictions intended to
reduce water demand placed upon the water supply system.
STAGE III SHORTAGE: The highest level of water restrictions intended to reduce
water demand placed upon the water supply system.
TOWN SUPERVISOR: The executive director of utilities or the executive
director's designees, if any.
TURF GRASS: Continuous plant coverage of grasses that, when regularly mowed,
form a dense growth placed upon the water supply system.
WATER: All potable and nonpotable water supplied from the water supply system
to any water customer.
WATER CUSTOMER: The person designated on the records of utilities as the person
responsible for payment of charges incurred for the use of the water supply
system at the premises being served, or any person of lawful age who uses water
at the premises served.
WATER FEATURE: Any fountain or use of water for decorative or aesthetic
purposes. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-3: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED; SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN TURF GRASS
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No water customer shall allow, permit or cause the waste of water,
which shall include any use of water in violation of this article.
   B.   During any water shortage declared under this article, no water
customer shall be required, whether by public or private agreement, contract or
regulation, to retain existing turf grass or to install new turf grass. (Ord.
276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-4: AUTHORIZATION TO IMPLEMENT:
   A.   Utilities is authorized to enforce this article.
   B.   The town supervisor may propose additional restrictions (beyond those
contained in this article) or modify existing restrictions as deemed necessary.
However, the town council must formally approve of proposed additional or
modified restrictions, and may do so by emergency ordinance. (Ord. 276, 5-7-
2003)
9-2A-5: STAGE I SHORTAGE:
A stage I shortage may be declared when the town supervisor determines that: a)
the projected demand for water exceeds the expected yield of water by at least
five percent (5%) but not more than fifteen percent (15%); or b) proactive
measures should be taken to avoid or reduce the severity of a shortage. During
a stage I shortage, utilities will increase public communication and education
efforts aimed at water conservation, will encourage the community to conserve
water wherever possible, and will evaluate the development of water rates that
promote the efficient use of water. In addition, the following restrictions on
the use of water by water customers shall be in effect during a stage I
shortage:
   A.   Hydrant permits will be limited to essential purposes, including, but
not limited to, dust mitigation, supplying water to construction sites where
water service is unavailable, and supplying water to plant material where water
service is unavailable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the issuance of a
hydrant permit during any shortage declared by the town supervisor shall be
conditioned upon use of a positive shutoff valve to minimize waste of water.
   B.   The use of water in all public and private water features is prohibited
except those using recirculating water. For purposes of this article, those
water features using recirculating water shall be designated by posting a sign
near to the water feature stating that it uses recirculating water.
   C.   All town and utilities facilities less than five (5) acres will
restrict irrigation of turf grass and sodded areas to designated days. Even
numbered addresses shall irrigate on Sunday, Wednesday and Friday, and odd
numbered addresses on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-6: STAGE II SHORTAGE:
A stage II shortage may be declared when the town supervisor determines that:
a) the projected demand for water exceeds the expected yield of water by at
least fifteen percent (15%) but not more than thirty percent (30%); or b)
proactive measures should be taken to avoid or reduce the severity of a
shortage. However, the town council must formally approve the declaration of a
stage II shortage, and may do so by emergency ordinance. In addition to the
stage I restrictions set forth above, the following restrictions on the use of
water by water customers shall be in effect during a stage II shortage, except
that in the event of a conflict the following restrictions shall prevail:
   A.   Outdoor Landscape Watering:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, outdoor
landscape watering shall only be allowed on designated days from twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or from seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. Even numbered addresses may only irrigate
on Sunday and Wednesday, and odd numbered addresses on Tuesday and Saturday.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, outdoor landscape watering shall not exceed
three (3) hours each designated water day. Landscape irrigation with a handheld
hose with attached positive shutoff nozzle, drip irrigation system or bucket is
allowed at any time for trees, shrubs, planting beds and planters during a
stage II shortage.
      2.   For water customers with an irrigatable area of over twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet, outdoor landscape watering shall only be allowed on
designated days between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. Even numbered addresses may only irrigate on Monday (7:00 P.M. to
12:00 midnight) through Tuesday (12:01 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.) and Thursday (7:00
P.M. to 12:00 midnight) through Friday (12:01 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.), and odd
numbered addresses on Tuesday (7:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight) through Wednesday
(12:01 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.) and Friday (7:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight) through
Saturday (12:01 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.). Notwithstanding the foregoing, outdoor
landscape watering shall not exceed twenty (20) minutes per zone or area for
pop up fixed spray sprinklers and forty five (45) minutes per zone or area for
pop up rotary type sprinklers (including, but not limited to, impact or gear
drive). Landscape irrigation with a handheld hose with attached positive
shutoff nozzle, drip irrigation system or bucket is allowed at any time for
trees, shrubs, planting beds and planters during a stage II shortage.
   B.   Restrictions: No water customer shall: 1) apply water to any turf
grass, sodded, or landscape area resulting in the pooling or flowing of water
across the ground or into drainageways, including, but not limited to, gutters
and storm sewers; 2) fail to repair any irrigation system that is leaking; or
3) apply water intended for landscape irrigation to an impervious surface, such
as a street, sidewalk, driveway, patio or deck.
   C.   Washing Vehicles: Motor vehicles, trailers, boats and other types of
equipment shall be washed only during regular watering days as set forth in
this section and only with a handheld hose during regular watering days as set
forth in this section and only with a handheld hose equipped with a positive
shutoff nozzle for quick rinses or with a bucket, except that washing of
vehicles, trailers, boats and equipment may be done by a commercial car wash.
   D.   Washing Of Walkways: There shall be no hose washing of sidewalks,
patios, driveways, parking areas or other impervious surfaces, except to
eliminate conditions that pose a threat to public health or safety or when
required as surface preparation for the application of architectural coatings
or painting.
   E.   Water Features: The use of recirculating water in all public and
private water features shall be limited to no more than twelve (12) hours per
day. A sign shall be posted near the water feature stating designated operating
hours and that it uses recirculating water.
   F.   Drinking Water: No restaurant, hotel, cafe, cafeteria or other public
place where food is sold, served or offered for sale, shall serve drinking
water unless expressly requested by a patron and shall display a notice to that
effect. A copy of the posted notice shall be provided by utilities.
   G.   Notice In Lodging: The owner or manager of every hotel, motel, inn,
guesthouse, bed and breakfast facility and short term commercial lodging shall
post a notice of the existence of a declared shortage and any necessary
compliance measures. A copy of the posted notice shall be provided by
utilities. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-7: STAGE III SHORTAGE:
A stage III shortage may be declared when the town supervisor determines that:
a) the projected demand for water exceeds the expected yield of water by at
least thirty percent (30%); or b) proactive measures should be taken to avoid
or reduce the severity of a shortage. However, the town council must formally
approve the declaration of a stage III shortage, and may do so by emergency
ordinance. In addition to the stage I and stage II restrictions set forth
above, the following restrictions on the use of water by water customers shall
be in effect during a stage III shortage, except that in the event of a
conflict the following restrictions shall prevail:
   A.   Indoor industrial and commercial water use shall be reduced by an
amount, to be determined by utilities, in relationship to the severity of the
shortage, which amount shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%).
   B.   No additional water taps will be allowed.
   C.   The use of water for cooling or air conditioning spaces for the purpose
of personal comfort shall be restricted to that amount of water necessary to
maintain a minimum air temperature of seventy eight degrees Fahrenheit (78°F),
and all thermostats controlling the use of water for cooling within a building
or structure shall be set at seventy eight degrees Fahrenheit (78°F) or higher.
   D.   Outdoor watering shall be prohibited except for limited irrigation to
sustain large trees with trunks of at least six inches (6") in diameter,
measured at the base of the tree.
   E.   Washing of motor vehicles, trailers, boats and other types of equipment
shall be prohibited, except that washing may be done by a commercial car wash
to the extent it utilizes only recycled water. Operating days shall be
restricted to Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
   F.   The use of water in all public and private water features shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-8: DURATION OF WATER USE RESTRICTIONS:
Utilities will regularly evaluate the expected yield and projected demand to
determine whether it is necessary to continue the water use restrictions of a
declared stage. Stages may be declared in accord with sections
9-2A-5,
9-2A-6, and
9-2A-7 of this article and, if water supply conditions warrant, the town
supervisor may either downgrade or withdraw a declaration of a stage hereunder.
(Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-9: ALTERNATIVE WATER MANAGEMENT PLANS:
   A.   General: To encourage efficient water use and implementation of water
conservation measures, a water customer may request relief from applicable
provisions of this article by filing an alternative water management plan with
utilities. Utilities intends to provide water customers with the ability to
design water management alternatives that give water customers flexibility in
meeting the requirements of this article while achieving maximum conservation
goals. Additionally, utilities intends to acknowledge previously implemented
water conservation measures, such as the use of evapotranspiration rates in
irrigation scheduling, central control systems, application of Xeriscape
principles, water recycling processes and other water conservation
technologies.
   B.   Alternative Water Management Plan: Alternative water management plan
shall contain proposed water reduction measures or otherwise demonstrate
optimal use of water. In the event a water customer submits an alternative
water management plan for irrigation, the water customer's plan shall be in
accord with utilities' irrigation criteria. Alternative water management plans
for irrigation shall not be allowed during stage III shortage.
   C.   Approval: No alternative water management plan shall be approved unless
the water customer affirmatively demonstrates that: 1) proposed water reduction
measures achieve at least the same level of demand reduction as the applicable
restrictions of this article; or 2) recently implemented water conservation
measures achieve at least the same level of demand reduction or efficiency as
the applicable restrictions of this article (shall not apply to town and
utilities as they are committed to lead by example and have already implemented
conservation measures). Alternative water management plans must be reviewed and
approved by utilities in writing before a water customer may implement any
water management alternative. The water customer shall comply with the
conditions of the approved alternative water management plan unless good cause
exists for changes to the plan and the plan is amended accordingly and approved
as set forth in this section.
   D.   Violations: In the event a water customer violates any condition of an
approval under this section, then the approval granted under this section shall
be withdrawn, and utilities may add a charge to the water customer's bill equal
to one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a residential water customer and five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a commercial user. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-10: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Water customers may use water essential to protect general public
health, safety or welfare.
   B.   Water customers may use nonpotable water to irrigate where available,
provided the use is efficient, and in accord with daily evapotranspiration
rates and other applicable nonpotable rules and regulations.
   C.   In a stage II or stage III shortage, commercial establishments, which
sell plants, may irrigate only as necessary to maintain plant health. These
establishments must develop, and maintain on site, a best management plan that
provides for watering plants in a manner that does not waste water, and the
plan must be available for inspection upon request by utilities, and all
persons or agents employed thereby, at reasonable times.
   D.   In a stage II shortage, a water customer installing turf grass, by sod
only, may irrigate the installed sod at times other than as set forth in
section 9-2A-6 of this article if the water customer obtains a valid turf grass
permit. Applications for turf grass permits shall be submitted to utilities on
a form supplied by utilities, and shall be accompanied by a fifty dollar
($50.00) permit fee. The applicant shall comply with the conditions of the turf
grass permit.
   E.   Irrigation systems may be operated during restricted hours for cleaning
and maintenance purposes, but this limited operation shall not exceed ten (10)
minutes per zone per week. An attendant must be on site and visible throughout
the entire cleaning and maintenance operation.
   F.   In the event a water customer violates any of the requirements set
forth in subsection A, B, C, D or E of this section, then that water customer
shall no longer be allowed to qualify for an exception. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-11: WATER CONSERVATION FUND:
Utilities shall place all funds collected pursuant to this article in excess of
the cost to administer this article in a water conservation fund. All monies in
the water conservation fund shall be used for water conservation activities,
including creating incentives as well as educational programs. (Ord. 276, 5-7-
2003)
9-2A-12: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of this article, utilities and
all persons or agents employed thereby have the power, upon the presentation of
proper credentials, to enter and inspect at any reasonable time and in any
reasonable manner the exterior of a water customer's premises for the purpose
of investigating any actual, suspected, or potential violation of this article.
The occupant of the premises shall render all proper assistance. If entry or
inspection to the premises is denied or not promptly consented to, utilities is
empowered to obtain, from a municipal, county, or state district court with
jurisdiction, a warrant to enter and inspect the exterior of the premises.
(Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-13: LIABILITY:
Each water customer shall be responsible for compliance with this article with
respect to the water customer's premises, and shall be responsible for
applicable charges for noncompliance with this article. In the event of an
alleged violation of this article, proof of any of the conditions in section 9-
2A-5, 9-2A-6 or 9-2A-7 of this article, together with proof that the conditions
originated at any water customer's premises, shall constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the water customer is responsible for the violation. (Ord.
276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-14: VIOLATIONS AND CHARGES:
   A.   In the event a violation of this article occurs on a water customer's
premises, the water customer is subject to imposition of the following:
      1.   For a first violation of a stage I or stage II restriction as set
forth in section
9-2A-5 or
9-2A-6 of this article within a twelve (12) month period, utilities shall
notify the water customer in writing of the violation and issue a written
warning to the water customer.
      2.   For a second violation of a stage I or stage II restriction as set
forth in section
9-2A-5 or
9-2A-6 of this article within a twelve (12) month period, utilities shall
notify the water customer in writing of the violation and add a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) charge to the water bill for the premises.
      3.   For a third violation of a stage I or stage II restriction as set
forth in section
9-2A-5 or
9-2A-6 of this article within a twelve (12) month period, utilities shall
notify the water customer in writing of the violation and add a two hundred
fifty dollar ($250.00) charge to the water bill for the premises.
      4.   For a fourth or any subsequent violation of a stage I or stage II
restriction as set forth in section
9-2A-5 or
9-2A-6 of this article within a twelve (12) month period, utilities shall
notify the water customer in writing of the violation and add a five hundred
dollar ($500.00) charge to the water bill for the premises.
      5.   For a violation of a stage III restriction as set forth in section
9-2A-7 of this article within a twelve (12) month period, utilities shall
notify the water customer in writing of the violation and add a charge to the
water bill for the premises equal to the following: a) for a first violation, a
one hundred dollar ($100.00) charge; b) for a second violation, a five hundred
dollar ($500.00) charge; and c) for a third violation, and any subsequent
violation, a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) charge.
      6.   For a fourth violation, and for any subsequent violation, during any
stage II or stage III shortage, utilities may, in its discretion: a) disconnect
water service to the premises on which the violations occurred in accord with
the tariffs of the utilities; or b) restrict water flow on the service of the
water customer at the premises at which the violations occurred. Any flow
restriction shall remain in place for a period determined by utilities, based
upon the severity of the violation as well as the applicable declared stage.
      7.   Nothing contained in this article shall preclude utilities from
pursuing remedies existing at law, in equity or by statute or otherwise,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief by requesting a court of
competent jurisdiction to issue a restraining order or injunction precluding
the water customer from further use of water in violation of this article.
      8.   Any water customer who has been issued a charge under this section,
shall have thirty (30) days from the date of said notification to file a
written request to address the town council and appeal any additional charge to
the customer's water bill. The town council shall consider said water
customer's request at the next regular meeting of the town council or as soon
thereafter as is reasonable.
   B.   Whenever a water customer is found by utilities to be in violation of
this article, a notice of violation must be issued. The notice of violation
must be on the form, which is prescribed by utilities and must contain the
following information:
      1.   The location at which the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   A description of the violation observed by utilities or persons or
agents employed thereby;
      4.   The section of this article, which was allegedly violated;
      5.   Information which advised of the manner in which, and the time
within which, the notice of violation may be contested as set forth in section
9-2A-16 of this article;
      6.   The applicable correction period;
      7.   Any other reasonable information which is prescribed by utilities;
and
      8.   The signature of the person who issues the notice of violation.
   C.   The notice of violation must be served upon the water customer by
affixing the notice to the premises of the water customer in a conspicuous
place, by personal delivery, or sent by U.S. mail. If by mail, service shall be
deemed complete upon mailing. Service of the notice of violation by affixation
has the same force and effect and is subject to the same penalties for
disregard thereof, as if the notice of violation were personally served on the
water customer. For purposes of this article, a person who is of full legal age
and who resides at the premises is deemed to be the agent of the water customer
to receive a notice of violation.
   D.   Any charge assessed pursuant to this article shall be collectible in
the same manner as a water charge under the tariffs of the utilities.
   E.   Whenever a water customer fails to correct a violation within the
correction period set forth on a notice of violation, this failure to correct
shall constitute an additional violation.
   F.   Any charge assessed a commercial user pursuant to this article shall be
equal to two (2) times the applicable charge. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-15: WATER USE REDUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
For illustration purposes only, specific water use reduction measures, their
corresponding stages and scope of restrictions are set out in the following
table:
   February 2005
   Town of Lingle   WATER RESTRICTION TABLE
Measures For Stage Scope Of Restrictions
Measures For                      Stage      Scope Of Restrictions
                                             Firefighting and medical uses - no
                                  I, II, III restrictions.
Essential services                           
                                  I, II, III Limit hydrant permits to essential
                                             purposes.
                                             Town will implement measures at
                                             their facilities to "lead by
Town of Lingle utilities and town            example".
facilities use                    I, II, III Compliance with mandatory
                                             reduction measures for those uses
                                             in the outdoor and essential
                                             categories.
                                             Compliance with mandatory
Military                          I, II, III reduction measures for those uses
                                             in the outdoor, essential and
                                             utility categories.
                                             Reduction of water use by any
                                             means available is encouraged.
                                              
                                             Compliance with the mandatory
                                             demand reduction measures is
                                  I          required for those uses in the
                                            outdoor category, including
                                  II         landscape watering and aesthetic
Industrial, commercial, and other           uses such as fountains.
                                             
                                  III        Indoor industrial and commercial
                                             water use shall be reduced by an
                                             amount, to be determined by
                                             utilities, in relationship to the
                                             severity of the shortage, which
                                             amount shall not exceed 15
                                             percent.
                                             Encouraged not to serve drinking
                                             water unless expressly requested
                                             by a patron.
Restaurants, or other eating      I           
establishments                              Prohibited from serving water
                                  II, III    except when requested by a patron,
                                             and a notice to that effect shall
                                             be posted, which notice shall be
                                             provided by utilities.
                                             Encouraged to participate in the
                                             "Green Hotel" or WAVE program.
                                              
                                             The owner or manager of every
                                  I          hotel, motel, inn, guesthouse, bed
Hospitality industry                        and breakfast facility and short
                                  II, III    term commercial lodging shall post
                                             a notice of shortage and any
                                             necessary compliance measures,
                                             which notice shall be provided by
                                             utilities.
Household                         I, II, III Reduction of water use by any
                                             means available is encouraged.
                                             All aesthetic water use prohibited
                                             unless recirculating.
                                              
                                  I          All recirculating aesthetic water
                                            use limited to no more than 12
Aesthetics (fountains, water      II         hours per day. A sign shall be
features, etc.)                             posted near the water feature
                                            stating designated operating hours
                                            and that it uses recirculating
                                  III        water.
                                              
                                             All aesthetic water use
                                             prohibited.
                                             Efficient use of water is
                                             encouraged to minimize water
                                             waste.
                                              
                                             Landscape watering using sprinkler
                                             or irrigation systems is permitted
                                             only on designated days between
                                             the hours of 7:00 P.M. and 9:00
                                             A.M. Even numbered addresses shall
                                             irrigate on Sunday, Wednesday and
                                  I          Friday, and odd numbered addresses
                                            on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
                                  II         Landscape irrigation with a
                                            handheld hose with attached
                                            positive shutoff nozzle, drip
                                            irrigation system or bucket is
Landscape irrigation                        allowed at any time for trees,
                                            shrubs, planting beds and planters
                                            during stage II. Irrigation for
                                            establishment of new turf grass
                                  III        shall be by permit only.
                                             
                                            Outdoor watering shall be
                                  I, II, III prohibited except for limited
                                             irrigation to sustain large trees
                                             with trunks of at least 6 inches
                                             in diameter, measured at the base
                                             of the tree.
                                              
                                             Water customers may use nonpotable
                                             water to irrigate, provided this
                                             use is efficient and in accord
                                             with daily evapotranspiration
                                             rates.
                                             Efficient use of water is
                                             encouraged to minimize water
                                             waste.
                                              
                                             Use of water to wash any
                                             impervious outdoor ground
                                  I          covering, such as a parking lot,
                                            driveway, street or sidewalk, is
                                  II, III    prohibited. The washing of any
                                            impervious surfaces to eliminate
                                            conditions that pose a threat to
Other outdoor uses                          general public health or safety is
                                  II         permitted.
                                             
                                            Noncommercial washing of vehicles
                                            and mobile equipment (e.g.,
                                  III        washing vehicle at a residence) is
                                             permitted only on designated days
                                             with handheld hose (with automatic
                                             shutoff nozzle) or bucket.
                                              
                                             Noncommercial washing of motor
                                             vehicles and mobile equipment is
                                             prohibited.
                                             Washing of motor vehicles,
                                             trailers, boats and other types of
Commercial vehicle wash                      equipment is limited to facilities
facilities                        III        that utilize recycled water.
                                             Operating days shall be restricted
                                             to Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and
                                             Saturday.
                                             Shall be restricted to that amount
                                             of water necessary to maintain a
Use of water for cooling or air              minimum air temperature of 78
conditioning spaces for personal  III        degrees Fahrenheit, and all
comfort                                      thermostats controlling cooling
                                             within a building or structure
                                             shall be set at 78 degrees
                                             Fahrenheit or higher.
New construction                  III        No additional water taps will be
                                             allowed.
 
(Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
9-2A-16: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
Any water customer's dispute with utilities concerning this article shall be
resolved as set forth herein. Requests for informal review or mediation must be
received by the utilities within ninety (90) days from the date of the notice
of violation. (Ord. 276, 5-7-2003)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Permit Required
9-3-3: Separate Service Line Required
9-3-4: Notice To Connect
9-3-5: Use Of Public System Required; Exception
9-3-6: Sewer Connections
9-3-7: Inspections
9-3-8: Connection Of Water Drains, Downspouts
9-3-9: Service Lines
9-3-10: Construction Of Sewers In Subdivisions
9-3-11: Extension To Serve Property Within Town Not Part Of A Subdivision
9-3-12: Nongravity Lines
9-3-13: Sand And/Or Grease Traps
9-3-14: Depositing Injurious Material Into System
9-3-15: Extension Of Service Outside Municipality
9-3-16: Charges
9-3-17: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 15-1-103(a)(xxx) and 5-7-501 et seq.
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
SEWER MAIN: The sewer line lying within the streets, alleys, rights of way or
easements of the municipality.
SEWER SERVICE LINE: The sewer line running from the municipal sewer main to the
structure or property to be served.
SEWER UTILITY: All sanitary sewers, sewage treatment works, equipment, material
and supplies used by the municipality to collect and dispose of sewage from
property in the municipality; and property served by municipal sewers outside
the municipality; provided, that a sewer service line shall be regarded as the
property of the owner of such structure or property served. (Ord. 211, 1-20-
1988)
9-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to extend any sewer service line or to change, enlarge or
alter the use of any sewer service line connected to the sewer utility without
first obtaining a permit therefor. No such permit shall be issued to property
situated outside the municipality except under such terms and conditions as the
governing body shall provide. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-3: SEPARATE SERVICE LINE REQUIRED:
Each property shall be served by its own sewer service line. All plumbing
fixtures in any building or structure on land adjoining to or abutted on or
near any street or alley or other place through which there are sewer mains
leading to and connected with the sewer utility of the municipality shall be
connected by the owner, tenant or occupant of the property to such mains upon
notice from the town supervisor. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-4: NOTICE TO CONNECT:
   A.   Service: Notice to connect to the sewer main shall be served upon the
owner, tenant or occupant by certified mail to the address of the property
appearing on the rolls of the county assessor.
   B.   Compliance Deadline: The owner, tenant or occupant shall comply with
the order of the town supervisor within ninety (90) days after the date of
service.
   C.   Appeal To Governing Body: The owner, tenant or occupant may appeal the
decision of the town supervisor to the governing body within ten (10) days
after the date of service of the notice. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-5: USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Connection Required: All occupied lots or parts of lots or land in the
municipality within two hundred feet (200') or less of a sewer main of the
municipality shall be connected by a sewer service line in the manner as
provided in this chapter and no privy vault or cesspool shall be maintained,
kept or continued thereon. If the owner, tenant or occupant of property coming
within the purview of this section neglects or refuses to make such connection,
the town supervisor shall notify such owner, tenant or occupant to make or
cause such connections to be made pursuant to section
9-3-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Connection To Be Made Before Paving Adjacent Street 1 : Before any
street or alley is paved, the owners of all property abutting thereon where a
sewer main is laid shall make sewer service line connections with such sewer
main, whether the immediate use thereof is required or not. Until used, such
connecting sewer service line shall be supplied with a proper cap or covering
sufficient to prevent the escape of sewer gas. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-2-5D of this title.
9-3-6: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make any connection to or uncover or
open any sewer main without first obtaining a permit therefor from the town
supervisor.
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to make any connection to the sewer
main shall make written application to the town supervisor for a permit. All
such applications must contain a description of the property to be connected,
the kind and sizes of the sewer service line and the kinds of fixtures to be
served.
   C.   Contents; Fees: The permit shall state the name and address of the
person making the connection or excavation, the property to be served, the
location of the tap to the sewer main and the size of the tap. No permit shall
be issued unless the fees prescribed by the municipality are tendered with the
application for a permit. Such fees shall be as established from time to time
by the governing body.
   D.   Type Issued: The following types of permits shall be issued for
connecting to the sewer main.
      1.   Permits to run a sewer service line from the sewer main to the
property line of the property to be served.
      2.   Permits to run a sewer service line from the sewer main to the
structure or building to be served.
      3.   Permits to run a sewer service line from the stubbed in service at
the property line to the building or other structure to be served.
      4.   Permits to connect a sewer service line to the sewer main to serve
property outside the municipality; provided, that no permit shall be issued to
connect with the sewer utility to serve property lying outside the municipality
except with the express consent of the governing body and under such terms and
conditions as the governing body may by resolution prescribe.
      5.   Permits to renew any of the sewer service lines provided for in this
section. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-7: INSPECTIONS:
All plumbing shall be subject to inspection by the town supervisor or his
authorized representatives in order to ascertain whether the requirements of
this chapter have been or are being complied with. It shall be unlawful for any
person to cause any plumbing within or outside the municipality to be connected
with the sewer utility of the municipality until such plumbing shall have been
inspected and approved and a certificate or tag of approval issued by the
municipality. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-8: CONNECTION OF WATER DRAINS, DOWNSPOUTS:
It shall be unlawful to connect any storm water drains, downspouts, subsurface
drainage systems or steam exhausts or blowoff from a steam boiler to the
sanitary system. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-9: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Dimensions And Material Requirements: The size of any sewer service
line shall not be less than four inches (4") nor more than six inches (6") in
diameter inside of the pipe and shall be formed of such pipe and materials as
may be approved by the town supervisor.
   B.   Backfilling Of Trenches: Backfilling of sewer service line trenches
shall be hard packed with care and well rammed to prevent the slightest
settling of the trenches.
   C.   Maintenance Of Inside: The inside of every sewer service line
connecting with the sewer utility shall be left smooth and perfectly clean
throughout its entire length. The ends of all lines not to be immediately used
shall be securely guarded against the introduction of earth, sand or other
foreign material by bricks and cement or other watertight and impervious
materials.
   D.   Responsibility For Cost Of Installing, Repairing: The cost of
installing the sewer service line shall be paid by the property owner. The
owners of the property served by a sewer service line shall be responsible for
repairing or replacing such sewer service line when, in the opinion of the town
supervisor, such line has become inoperative due to stoppages, crushing,
settlement or any other defect.
   E.   Method And Specifications For Making Connections To Sewer Mains:
      1.   Trench: Whenever a connection to the sewer main shall be made, the
required trench shall be opened an ample width to permit easy inspection and
the removal of all rubbish.
      2.   Junction: If there is no junction piece in the sewer main, a
connection may be made by inserting into the sewer main a T saddle of the size
specified in the permit required therefor.
      3.   Removal Of Rubbish: After making the opening, which shall be done
with great care so as to not injure the sewer main, all rubbish shall be
carefully removed from inside the sewer main. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
      4.   Connections: All connections of one line of sewer pipe with another
shall be made with Y branches or T saddles and long radius eighth bends. The
interior of each length of pipe and the inside of the last joint shall be made
perfectly clean before the next joint is laid. When a connection is made to a
sewer main, the service line shall not be connected thereto until the
connection has been inspected and approved by the town supervisor or his
designated representatives. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-10: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS IN SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Main Extension Contract Required: No sewer mains shall be constructed
in a platted subdivision until the subdivider and the municipality have
executed a sewer main extension contract.
   B.   Approval Of Plans And Inspection; Exception: The subdivider shall
install the sewer mains in his subdivision by contract upon approval of the
plans and specifications by the municipality and execution of sewer extension
contract. The municipality may elect to install the sewer mains, in which case,
the subdivider shall deposit with the municipality the estimated cost of the
construction, plus engineering and administrative costs. The municipality shall
then proceed to construct the sewer mains under contract. If at any time the
actual cost exceeds the amount deposited, the subdivider shall immediately
deposit sufficient funds to complete the work.
   C.   Costs Of Construction; Extent: The subdivider shall pay the costs of
construction of all sewer mains and appurtenances to, in and through his
subdivision except as otherwise provided in this chapter. Sewer mains shall
always be extended to the farthest points upgrade in a platted subdivision so
that the sewer utility may be perpetuated.
   D.   Undeveloped Areas 1 : When a subdivider finds it necessary to construct
a sewer main through undeveloped areas to serve his platted subdivision, the
entire cost of such sewer main shall be paid by the subdivider. At the time of
annexation or as the property abutting such sewer main is developed and
connections are made to the sewer main, the municipality may collect a charge
per front foot based upon the original construction cost and, if so collected,
shall reimburse the original subdivider to the extent of the collections so
made; provided, that in no event shall such reimbursement exceed the total cost
of the sewer main. A subdivider's right to reimbursement under the provisions
of this section shall terminate fifteen (15) years after execution of the sewer
extension contract. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 9-2-6H of this title.
9-3-11: EXTENSION TO SERVE PROPERTY WITHIN TOWN NOT PART OF A SUBDIVISION:
Extension of sewer mains to serve property within the municipality, but not a
part of a subdivision, shall be financed by special assessment against the
benefited property or under such terms and conditions as the governing body
shall provide. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-12: NONGRAVITY LINES:
   A.   Pumping Stations: When pumping stations are required, the cost of
constructing such stations shall be the responsibility of the property served
thereby. In those instances where it appears that more than one subdivision may
be served by the pumping station, the municipality may require a larger
capacity than that necessary to serve the initial development. Where such
larger capacity is required, the additional cost may be paid by the
municipality and thereafter collected from other property owners or subdividers
connecting to lines served by the pumping station. Such charges shall be paid
prior to the time any connections are made.
   B.   Force Mains Serving Areas Not Otherwise Able To Enter Sewer Utility:
Force mains required to serve an area not otherwise able to enter the sewer
utility shall be constructed at the expense of the owners of the property to be
served thereby.
   C.   Tie Into Gravity Lines: In those instances where pumping stations and
force mains are required, the sewer utility shall be designed so as to permit
an eventual connection into a gravity system with a minimum of expense. Where
practicable, easements shall be provided and lines constructed to tie into the
gravity system. The municipality may require deposits, where deemed necessary,
from the property owners requiring such force systems to ensure the eventual
construction of gravity lines. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-13: SAND AND/OR GREASE TRAPS:
All filling stations, garages, and similar places having wash or grease racks
connected with the sewer utility shall be provided, at the owner's or
occupant's expense, with a sand and grease trap of suitable size and
construction so no such materials enter the sewer utility. All commercial food
service establishments shall provide, at the owner's or occupant's expense,
suitable grease traps so no such materials enter the sewer utility. (Ord. 211,
1-20-1988)
9-3-14: DEPOSITING INJURIOUS MATERIAL INTO SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit or cause or permit to be deposited in
any vessel or receptacle connected with the sewer utility any petroleum
products, volatiles, acids, highly alkaline solutions or any other matter
whatsoever which shall be in any way injurious to the sewer utility or which
shall in any way cause maintenance of the sewer utility. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-15: EXTENSION OF SERVICE OUTSIDE MUNICIPALITY:
   A.   Authority Of Governing Body: The governing body may, in its sole
discretion, enter into agreements with customers whose lands lie outside the
corporate limits to extend the sewer utility for the use, needs and
requirements of such customers.
   B.   Findings Prerequisite To Agreement: Before the governing body shall
enter into any agreement for the extension of the sewer utility to customers
outside the corporate limits, it shall find that:
      1.   The extension of sewer service is economically feasible.
      2.   The property to be served is readily adaptable to and can be made to
conform, within a reasonable time to be fixed by the governing body, to the
then existing ordinances of the municipality which relate to subdivision,
platting, zoning and construction of improvements.
      3.   The property to be served is not currently contiguous to the
municipality limits and cannot therefore be annexed to the municipality
pursuant to the laws of the state, but that such property can reasonably be
expected to be annexable to the municipality within the foreseeable future.
      4.   Such extension would help promote the orderly growth and development
of the municipality.
      5.   Such extension would help promote the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the municipality.
      6.   Such extension would help promote ecological and aesthetic
considerations in the growth and development of the municipality.
      7.   Such extension is generally in the best interests of the citizens of
the municipality. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-3-16: CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Established; Billing Procedures: Charges for use of the town's sewer
system shall be as set, from time to time, by the town council. A copy of the
ordinance establishing such charges shall be maintained on file in the office
of the town clerk-treasurer where it shall be available for inspection by the
public during the normal office hours of the town.
   B.   Accounts For Each Property: An account shall be established for each
parcel of property, abode, business or address to which any or all of the
charges referred to in subsection A of this section apply; provided, that
additional accounts shall be established for locations or addresses having more
than one sewer tap. All accounts under this chapter shall be carried in the
names of the property owner, agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such
parcel of property, business or address.
   C.   Billing Frequency: No less frequently than once each quarter nor more
frequently than once each month, a statement of each account shall be prepared
and sent to the name and mailing address appearing on each account; provided,
that any property owner, agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee in whose name there
is an account may request, in writing, that the statement be addressed to a
banking institution.
   D.   Prorating Statements: Statements for periods less than one month
including charges or fees which are expressed as monthly charges or fees shall
be prorated to the nearest one-half (1/2) month to reflect the actual period of
time for which services were received. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
   E.   Payment Period; Delinquency: Statements shall be due and payable at the
office of the town clerk-treasurer immediately upon receipt of the statement
and shall have a late fee charge of two dollars ($2.00) or one percent (1%) of
the amount due whichever is greater added if not paid by the twentieth of the
month. All bills shall be delinquent if not paid before the tenth day of the
following month after the date the statement was prepared for mailing, and
shall thereafter accrue interest on all unpaid amounts at the rate of eighteen
percent (18%) per year until paid. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Responsibility For Payment: Property owners or the owner, agent,
tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such place of abode or place of business
shall, each and all, be jointly and severally liable for the payment of all
charges and fees hereunder.
   G.   Failure To Pay; Additional Remedies: Failure to pay any charges and
fees when due shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Collection of the charges and fees fixed under this chapter when delinquent may
be enforced by civil action at law brought by the town or an accredited
collection agency for the town in any court of competent jurisdiction. This
remedy is cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to all
penalties provided by the code for any violation of any provisions hereof.
   H.   Lien: All delinquent charges and fees shall be a lien upon the property
served from the date of delinquency.
   I.   Change Of Ownership Or Occupation: No change of ownership or occupation
shall affect the application of this section.
   J.   Deposit To Begin Sewer Utility: A new sewer user, upon application for
sewer service, shall pay, in advance, the minimum charge for one billing
period.
   K.   Metering Of Water From Private Sources: The town supervisor may require
that water used from private wells which enters the sanitary sewer system shall
be metered, or he may otherwise determine the method to be used to establish
the rate to be charged for sewer service. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-5-3 of this title.
9-3-17: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be
fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, to which sum costs of prosecution shall be
added. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE SERVICE 1
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Maintenance Of Premises
9-4-3: Containers
9-4-4: Preparation Of Materials For Collection
9-4-5: Heavy Appliances, Automobile Parts
9-4-6: Charges
9-4-7: Prohibited Activity
9-4-8: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 15-1-103(a)(xxi) and 35-10-101 et seq.
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, disposal and/or consumption of food. Cans, bottles, paper
or plastic plates, plastic eating utensils, wrappings, etc., which contain or
are soiled with putrescible animal or vegetable waste heretofore described
shall be considered to be garbage. Dead animals or portions thereof shall also
be considered as garbage.
REFUSE: Combustible and noncombustible discarded materials including, but not
limited to, paper, wood, glass, metal and cloth products, yard trimmings, tree
branches, furniture, bedding, building materials, leaves, ashes and solid
wastes resulting from industrial and manufacturing processes.
SERVICE: The collection of garbage or refuse which shall be done only by the
town or under franchise from the town. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. Ord. 281, 4-
7-2004)
9-4-2: MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES:
   A.   Duty To Maintain: It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, tenant,
purchaser, contractor or lessee of any premises within the town including
places of business, dwelling houses, apartments, tenements, construction sites
or other establishments, at all times, to maintain the premises in a clean and
orderly condition, permitting no deposit or accumulation of materials other
than those necessary or ordinarily attendant upon construction or upon the use
for which such premises are legally intended. Any such accumulation is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance and a nonconforming use of the premises.
   B.   Containers Required: All such persons shall provide and keep at their
expense, at all times, garbage containers which are suitable for the purpose of
holding all garbage and refuse without running over; provided, that such
persons may place yard trimmings and leaves in suitable, tightly closed plastic
bags. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-4-3: CONTAINERS:
All garbage and refuse containers shall be kept at one proper and accessible
place within easy reach of the collector. Such containers shall be secured in
such a manner as to provide reasonable security against being overturned by
animals, wind or other causes. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-4-4: PREPARATION OF MATERIALS FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Tree Limbs, Branches, Construction Wood: Tree limbs, branches and wood
used in construction shall be cut to lengths not exceeding six feet (6'),
securely tied by wire or twine, shall not exceed seventy five (75) pounds in
weight and shall be placed in the garbage or refuse container.
   B.   Rock, Dirt, Building Materials: Rock, stone, brick, concrete, dirt and
other building materials or mineral waste shall not be permitted to accumulate
in alleyways or at the curb.
   C.   Moist Garbage: Moist garbage or refuse which is capable of adhering to
the bottom and inside of the garbage container so as to form a mass in which
flies and other insects may breed and flourish and from which foul or offensive
orders may emanate, or which otherwise tends to become unwholesome and
unhealthful, shall be bagged or wrapped in paper of sufficient strength so as
to prevent such garbage from adhering to or remaining in the container.
   D.   Placement: All materials prepared for collection pursuant to the
provisions this section shall be placed on private property adjacent to the
alleyway where such exists or at the lot line of the street on all lots not
contiguous to an adjacent alleyway in such manner as to be readily accessible
for collection. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
9-4-5: HEAVY APPLIANCES, AUTOMOBILE PARTS:
Heavy appliances, automobile parts and other waste materials or refuse not
reducible to the weight and size limits required for removal by the town shall
be rendered in a safe condition and it shall be the responsibility of the owner
to remove such articles to the town waste disposal facility. (Ord. 211, 1-20-
1988)
9-4-6: CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Established: The fees to be charged for the collection and removal of
garbage and refuse shall be as established by the governing body from time to
time.
   B.   Accounts For Each Property: An account shall be established for each
parcel of property, abode, business, residence or address to which any or all
of the charges referred to in subsection A of this section apply. All accounts
under this chapter shall be carried in the names of the property owner, agent,
tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such parcel of property, business or
address.
   C.   Billing Frequency: No less frequently than once each quarter nor more
frequently than once each month, a statement of each account shall be prepared
and sent to the name and mailing address appearing on each account; provided,
that any property owner, agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee in whose name there
is an account may request, in writing, that the statement be addressed to a
banking institution.
   D.   Prorating Statements: Statements for periods less than one month
including charges or fees which are expressed as monthly charges or fees shall
be prorated to the nearest one-half (1/2) month to reflect the actual period of
time for which services were received. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
   E.   Payment Period; Delinquency: Statements shall be due and payable at the
office of the town clerk-treasurer immediately upon receipt of the statement
and shall have a late fee charge of two dollars ($2.00) or one percent (1%) of
the amount due whichever is greater added if not paid by the twentieth of the
month. All bills shall be delinquent if not paid before the tenth day of the
following month after the date the statement was prepared for mailing, and
shall thereafter accrue interest on all unpaid amounts at the rate of eighteen
percent (18%) per year until paid. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Responsibility For Payment: Property owners or the owner, agent,
tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such place of abode or place of business
shall, each and all, be jointly and severally liable for the payment of all
charges and fees hereunder.
   G.   Failure To Pay; Additional Remedies: Failure to pay any charges and
fees when due shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Collection of the charges and fees fixed under this chapter when delinquent may
be enforced by civil action at law brought by the town or an accredited
collection agency for the town in any court of competent jurisdiction. This
remedy is cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to all
penalties provided by the code for any violation of any provisions hereof.
   H.   Lien: All delinquent charges and fees shall be a lien upon the property
served from the date of delinquency.
   I.   Change Of Ownership Or Occupation: No change of ownership or occupation
shall affect the application of this section.
   J.   Deposit To Begin Using Garbage Service: A new user shall pay in advance
the minimum charge for one billing period. (Ord. 211, 1-20-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 9-5-4 of this title.
9-4-7: PROHIBITED ACTIVITY:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who resides outside the city
limits, to bring into the city any "garbage" or "refuse" as defined herein, for
the purpose of disposing it into a private or city owned dumpster. (Ord. 281,
4-7-2004)
9-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court of the
town, shall be fined as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code, to which sum costs of prosecution shall be
added. (Ord. 281, 4-7-2004; amd. Ord. 308, 10-7-2009)
CHAPTER 5
RATES, FEES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-5-0: Utility Deposit
9-5-1: Electrical Service
9-5-2: Water Service
9-5-3: Sewer Service
9-5-4: Garbage Service
9-5-5: Landfill
9-5-0: UTILITY DEPOSIT:
   A.   Residential Service Deposit: Every person desiring residential utility
services from the Town of Lingle shall, prior to receiving such service,
furnish a deposit as follows:
      1.   Three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00).
   B.   Commercial Service Deposit: Every person desiring commercial utility
services from the Town of Lingle shall, prior to receiving service, furnish a
deposit as follows:
      1.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 356, 7-7-2021)
9-5-1: ELECTRICAL SERVICE:
   A.   Electrical Charges:
      1.   Residential: The charges for residential electrical service shall be
as follows:
         a.   Single Phase, one hundred (100)-amp service or less: monthly base
charge of fifteen dollars and fifteen cents ($15.50), plus the sum of fifteen
cents ($0.15) per KWH used.
         b.   Two hundred (200)-amp service: monthly base charge of twenty-six
fifty dollars ($26.50), plus the sum of fifteen cents ($0.15) per KWH used.
      2.   Commercial: The charges for commercial electrical service shall be
as follows:
         a.   Single Phase, one hundred (100)-amp service: twenty-six fifty
dollars ($26.50) monthly base charge plus the sum of fifteen cents ($0.15) per
KWH used.
         b.   Single Phase, two hundred (200)-amp service: thirty dollars
($30.00) monthly base charge plus the sum of fifteen cents ($0.15) per KWH
used.
         c.   Three Phase, forty-five (45) kVA or less: thirty-five dollars
($35.00) monthly base charge plus the sum of fifteen cents ($0.15) per KWH
used.
      3.   Athletic Field: The charges for the Athletic Field lighting
electrical service shall be forty dollars ($40.00) monthly base charge for each
metered service, plus the sum of fifteen cents ($0.15) per KWH used, plus
demand charge of three dollars ($3.00) per Kilowatt of hourly demand.
   B.   Service Connection Fees:
      1.   Residential Service Connections: The service connection charge for
residential service shall be as follows:
         a.   Single Phase, overhead one hundred (100)-amp service: one hundred
and seventy-five dollars ($175.00).
         b.   Single Phase, underground one hundred (100)-amp service: one
hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00).
         c.   Single Phase, overhead service greater than one hundred (100)-
amp: one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00), plus actual cost of
materials plus seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per hour labor. Minimum labor
charge one hour.
         d.   Single Phase, underground service greater than one hundred (100)-
amp: one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00), plus actual cost of
materials plus seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per hour labor. Minimum labor
charge one hour.
      2.   Commercial Service Connections: The service connection charge for
commercial service shall be as follows:
         a.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) plus cost of materials and
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per hour for labor. Minimum labor charge one (1)
hour.
   C.   Reconnection Fee: Every consumer whose electrical service is
disconnected for any reason and who desires reconnection shall pay a
reconnection fee as follows:
      1.   Weekdays between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and four o’clock (4:00)
P.M.: eighty dollars ($80.00).
      2.   Weekends, holidays and outside of regular business hours: one
hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00). (Ord. 212, 2-17-1988; amd. Ord. 258,
5-19-1999; 2002 Code; Ord. 317, 6-22-2011; Ord. 333, 6-7-2017; Ord. 348, 9-23-
2020; Ord. 356, 7-7-2021)
9-5-2: WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Water Service Rates:
      1.   Residential Service: The charges for residential water service shall
be a monthly increase of one dollar ($1.00). The base charge will be thirty-one
dollars ($31.00) beginning July 1, 2024. A one dollar ($1.00) per year increase
will occur July 1st for four (4) consecutive fiscal years commencing July 1,
2025.
      2.   Commercial Service:
         a.   The charges for unmetered commercial water service shall be a
monthly increase of one dollar ($1.00). The base charge will be thirty-six
dollars ($36.00) beginning July 1, 2024.
         b.   The charges for metered commercial water service shall be a
monthly increase of one dollar ($1.00). The base charge will be thirty-six
dollars ($36.00), plus the sum of one dollar ($1.00) per one thousand gallons
over a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) gallons per month beginning July 1,
2024.
         c.   For all commercial unmetered and metered water services, a one
dollar ($1.00) per year increase will occur July 1st for four (4) consecutive
fiscal years commencing July 1, 2025.
   B.   Service Connection Fees:
      1.   Residential Water Tap Fees:
         a.   Three quarter inch (3/4") tap: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   One inch (1") tap: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Commercial Water Tap Fees:
         a.   One inch (1") tap: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   C.   Reconnection Fee: Every consumer whose water service is disconnected
for any reason and who desires reconnection shall pay a reconnection fee as
follows:
      1.   Weekdays between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and four o’clock (4:00)
P.M.: eighty dollars ($80.00).
      2.   Weekends, holidays and outside of regular business hours: one
hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00). (Ord. 212, 2-17-1988; amd. 2002
Code; Ord. 298, 6-6-2007, eff. 6-6-2007; Ord. 306, 6-17-2009; Ord. 346, 6-3-
2020; Ord. 356, 7-7-2021; Ord. 367, 5-22-2024)
9-5-3: SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   Sewer Service Rates:
      1.   Residential Service: The charges for residential sewer service shall
be a monthly increase of two dollars ($2.00). The base charge will be twenty
dollars ($20.00) beginning July 1, 2024. A one dollar ($1.00) per year increase
will occur July 1st for four (4) consecutive fiscal years commencing July 1,
2025.
      2.   Commercial Service:
         a.   The charges for commercial sewer service shall be a monthly
increase of two dollars ($2.00). The base charge will be twenty-six dollars
($26.00) beginning July 1, 2024.
         b.   A one dollar ($1.00) per year increase will occur July 1st for
four (4) consecutive fiscal years commencing July 1, 2025.
      3.   Industrial Service:
         a.   The charges for industrial sewer service shall be a monthly flat
charge of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00). "Industrial service" is defined
as having more than three (3) toilets or urinals on the premises or larger than
a four inch (4") sewer line.
   B.   Service Connection Fees:
      1.   Residential Sewer Tap Fees:
         a.   Four-inch (4") tap: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   Greater than four-inch (4") tap: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Commercial Sewer Tap Fees:
         a.   Four-inch (4") tap: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   Greater than four-inch (4") tap and up to six-inch (6") tap: five
hundred dollars ($500.00), plus materials and labor at the rate of seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) per hour. Minimum labor charge of one (1) hour. (Ord. 212, 2-
17-1988; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 303, 6-18-2008; Ord. 306, 6-17-2009; Ord. 346, 6-
3-2020; Ord. 356, 7-7-2021; Ord. 367, 5-22-2024)
9-5-4: GARBAGE SERVICE:
   A.   Residential Rates:
      1.   The charges for each residential garbage service shall be a monthly
base charge of twenty-seven dollars ($27.00).
      2.   Green dumpsters: The charge for the collection and disposal of green
grass clippings is five dollars ($5.00) monthly and is included in the base
rate stated above. This eliminates the issue of whether or not residents use
the green dumpsters or feel they should pay the extra fee involved for a green
dumpster.
   B.   Commercial Rates: The charges for each commercial garbage service shall
be as follows:
      1.   Base Charge: Small size dumpsters will be charged at a monthly rate
of forty dollars ($40.00), medium size dumpsters will be charged at a monthly
rate of fifty-four dollars ($54.00) and large dumpsters will be charged at a
monthly rate of seventy dollars ($70.00).
   C.   Fuel surcharge rates: As per Ordinance NO. 358; Section 9: BILLINGS;
sub b.; the Town of Lingle will pass on all fuel surcharges incurred from
Torrington Disposal Service to all Town of Lingle garbage utility customers.
The charges for the fuel surcharge shall be as follows:
      1.   As per the attachment, "FUEL SURCHARGE RATE CHART" the percent of
increase will applied to the monthly invoice received by the Town of Lingle
from Torrington Disposal Service. The percent of increase will be divided
equally between all Town of Lingle garbage utility customers and added to their
monthly billing. This Fuel Surcharge Rate billing will occur as long as the
Fuel Surcharge Rate is in effect from Torrington Disposal Service.
      2.   Effective date of this amendment is July 1, 2022. (Ord. 212, 2-17-
1988; amd. Ord. 268, 1-17-2001; 2002 Code; Ord. 330, 2-17-2016; Ord. 341, 6-19-
2019; Ord. 356, 7-7-2021; Ord. 359, 4-6-2022)
9-5-5: LANDFILL:
The following user fees are hereby established for the Town Landfill:
   A.   Up to one Pickup load (3/4 ton or less): seven dollars and fifty cents
($7.50) each load.
   B.   Truck load (up to three and one-half ton truck): forty dollars ($40.00)
each load.
   C.   Special charge items:
      1.   White goods: five dollars ($5.00) each. (Ord. 212, 2-17-1988; amd.
2002 Code; Ord. 356, 7-7-2021)
CHAPTER 6
NATURAL GAS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Created
9-6-2: Award Of Franchise; Ordinances
9-6-3: Financing And Contracting Authority
9-6-4: Facilities
9-6-1: CREATED:
The town of Lingle hereby creates the town of Lingle natural gas department
(LNGD) under the direct control of the governing body of the town including
management, operation, maintenance, extension, improvement, metering, and
monthly service charges necessary to produce net revenue sufficient to pay
outstanding debts of LNGD and interest on said debts and to accumulate revenue
funds for continued operating costs of said department including, but not
limited to, personnel, supplies, maintenance, and administration, as well as
reserve funds to maintain, repair, replace, extend, improve or otherwise
construct a natural gas system. (Ord. 243, 3-6-1996)
9-6-2: AWARD OF FRANCHISE; ORDINANCES:
   A.   Authority To Award: The town of Lingle is authorized to issue such
municipal franchise or franchises as may be necessary to LNGD or others to
allow operation within the boundaries of the town. Such franchise shall be
nonexclusive and shall be commensurate with existing franchises for the same or
similar services as shall be determined by the sole discretion of the governing
body.
   B.   Ordinances: The town may, from time to time, adopt and enforce any and
all necessary ordinances to protect LNGD and property under the control of
LNGD. (Ord. 243, 3-6-1996)
9-6-3: FINANCING AND CONTRACTING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Authority To Establish Budget: The town is authorized to establish a
budget account for the town natural gas department (LNGD): 1) to collect
revenues to the credit of said account; 2) to fund said account as other
departments are funded; 3) to make assessments; and 4) to issue bonds for
capital improvements as may be deemed necessary to the services to be provided
by Lingle.
   B.   Authority To Enter Into Joint Powers Arrangements: The town of Lingle
may enter into any cooperative or joint powers arrangements with other
qualifying governmental entities or local governments, as defined by Wyoming
Statutes, as it deems necessary and economically beneficial for construction of
joint facilities and pipelines; purchase of real estate or natural gas supplies
or reserves; administration, or any other purpose deemed necessary to the
establishment and operation of Lingle. Such agreements shall be approved by the
governing body prior to such agreements becoming effective.
   C.   Authority To Enter Into Contracts, Leases And Agreements: The town is
authorized to enter into such contracts, options, leases, pooling, utilizing
and operating agreements or such other agreements, subject to statutory
requirements, as may be necessary in the procuring, transporting, and
distributing of natural gas to its consumers; engineering studies and reports;
rates studies; bond issues; construction contracts; management and/or
distribution contracts; and any other matters necessary for the operation of
LNGD. The town is authorized to enter into purchase agreements for the purchase
of real and/or personal property as deemed necessary to the purposes of the
LNGD, reserving however, its right to condemn property. (Ord. 243, 3-6-1996)
9-6-4: FACILITIES:
The town is authorized to construct, purchase, lease, or extend propane, butane
or natural gas pipelines, for transportation to the town limits from place of
origin or purchase, and distribution lines and appurtenant equipment within the
town for services to customers. (Ord. 243, 3-6-1996)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Jurisdiction
10-1-2: Purpose; Intent
10-1-3: Applicability
10-1-4: Exemptions
10-1-1: JURISDICTION:
All plans or plats of land laid out in building lots hereafter made for each
subdivision or each part thereof lying within the town limits of Lingle shall
be prepared, presented and recorded in accordance with the regulations
prescribed in this title. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-1-2: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose and intent of these regulations is to provide for the harmonious
development of the community; to provide for the proper location and width of
streets, buildings, open spaces, safety and recreational facilities, utilities,
drainage, and for the avoidance of congestion of population through
requirements of minimum lot width, depth and area and the compatibility of
design; to require and fix the extent to which and the manner in which streets
shall be graded and improved, and water, sewer, drainage, and other physical
improvements installed; and to provide for and secure to the proper governing
body decisions regarding the actual construction of such physical improvements.
(Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
The owner or owners of any land located within the jurisdiction of these
regulations subdividing land into two (2) or more lots and blocks or tracts or
parcels, for the purpose of laying out any subdivisions, suburban lots,
building lots, tracts or parcels, or any owner of any land establishing any
street, alley, park or other property intended for public use, or for the use
of purchasers or owners of lots, tracts or parcels of land fronting thereon or
adjacent thereto, shall cause a plat to be made in accordance with this title.
(Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-1-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The regulations codified in this title shall not apply in the following
instances:
   A.   Agricultural Purposes: The division of land for agricultural purposes
into parcels or tracts of three (3) acres or more and not involving any new
streets or easements of access;
   B.   Change In Boundary: A change in the boundary between adjoining lands
which does not create an additional lot;
   C.   Rights Of Way; Easements: Land used for street or railroad right of
way, a drainage easement or other public utilities subject to local, state or
federal regulations where no new street or easement of access is involved;
   D.   Preexisting Subdivisions Or Replatting: Whenever any lot, parcel or
tract of land located within the area governed by this title has been
subdivided, resubdivided or replatted prior to the adoption of the regulations
codified in this title;
   E.   Transfers: Any transfer by operation of law. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Definitions
10-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Definitions for the interpretation of this title are as set out in this
chapter.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land surrounded by public highways, streets,
streams, railroad rights of way or parks, etc., or a combination thereof.
COLLECTOR STREET: Any street designed primarily for the purposes of gathering
traffic from local or residential streets and carrying it to the major street
system.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
DESIGN: The location of streets, alignment of streets, grades and widths of
streets, alignment of easements, grades and widths of easements, alignment and
right of way for drainage and sanitary sewers, and the designation of minimum
lot area, width and length.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
ENGINEER: Either the town engineer or the county engineer, depending upon the
area of government jurisdiction.
FINAL PLAT: A plan or map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
title and those of any other applicable local regulation, which plat is
prepared to be placed on record in the office of the register of deeds in
Goshen County in which any part of the subdivision is located.
GOVERNING BODY: The elected governing body of the town of Lingle.
IMPROVEMENTS: Street work and utilities that are to be installed, or agreed to
be installed by the subdivider, on the land to be used for public or private
use of the lot owners in the subdivision, and local neighborhood traffic and
drainage needs, as a condition precedent to the approval and acceptance of the
final map or filing of the record of the survey map thereof.
LOT: A portion of land in a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development.
MAJOR THOROUGHFARE: A street, highway or roadway designated as such on the
official major street plan.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS OR FRONTAGE ROADS: A minor street which is generally
parallel to or adjacent to a major traffic thoroughfare, highway or railroad
right of way and provides access to abutting properties.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way dedicated to public use which cuts across a block
to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
PLANNING AREA: That area on a map prepared and maintained for or by the
planning commission describing the planning area limits.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the town of Lingle.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map made for the purpose of showing the design of a
proposed subdivision and the existing conditions in and around it; this map
need not be based on an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
SECRETARY: The secretary of the planning commission.
SETBACK LINE OR BUILDING LINE: A line on a plat generally parallel to the
street right of way indicating the limit beyond which building or structures
may not be erected or altered except as otherwise provided in the zoning
regulations.
STREET: A right of way dedicated to the public use or a private right of way
serving more than one ownership which provides principal vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity who causes
land to be divided into a subdivision for himself or for others.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a tract of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development or, if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term
"subdivision" includes "resubdivision", and the term "resubdivision" as used in
this title, includes any further subdivision of a lot or parcel of land
previously subdivided, for sale, use or other purposes, which varies from the
latest approved subdivision of the same. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Deed Restrictions
10-3-2: Approvals Necessary For Acceptance
10-3-3: Preapplication
10-3-4: Utility Easements And Street Improvements For New Annexations And
Subdivisions
10-3-5: Provisions Of Utilities To Improvement
10-3-1: DEED RESTRICTIONS:
The planning commission shall have the right to confer with the subdivider
regarding the type and character of development that will be permitted in the
subdivision and may require that certain minimum regulations regarding this
matter be incorporated in the deed restrictions. Such regulations shall be
intended to protect the character and value of the surrounding development of
the property which is being subdivided. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-3-2: APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE:
All plans or plats of land laid out in building lots, and the streets, alleys
or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public use, or for
the use of purchasers or owners of the lots fronting thereon or adjacent
thereto, shall be submitted to the planning commission for its consideration,
and its recommendation shall be submitted to the governing body for their
official consideration and action. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-3-3: PREAPPLICATION:
Prior to the filing of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall contact the
town engineer, the official authorized in administering the zoning regulations
and other administrative personnel to determine:
   A.   Procedure for filing plats;
   B.   Availability of public sewers and water;
   C.   Master plan requirements for major streets, land use, parks, schools
and public open spaces;
   D.   Zoning requirements for the property in question and adjacent
properties. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
10-3-4: UTILITY EASEMENTS AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS FOR NEW ANNEXATIONS AND
SUBDIVISIONS:
No annexation to the town or subdivision plats or plans shall hereafter be
approved and no utilities, including electricity, water and sewer, shall be
furnished except those that are presently in existence unless the following
requirements are first complied with:
   A.   Extension Of Sewer And Water Lines: The owner of the property shall
agree to pay for the extension of water and sewer lines from the existing
system of the town, except that the town shall pay the additional costs of
water and sewer lines in excess of eight inches (8") in diameter and shall pay
for fire plugs;
   B.   Rights Of Way: The owner shall obtain, at his cost, all rights of way
for easements for such utilities along routes prescribed by the town, unless
the town elects to acquire the rights of way or pay the cost thereof;
   C.   Drainage: No annexation or subdivision shall be approved by the town
until adequate provisions have been made for drainage by storm sewer or surface
drainage means. Such provisions to be paid for by owner unless the town elects
to participate in such costs;
   D.   Utilities In Undeveloped Areas: The owner, having paid for and provided
for an extension of a utility over and across undeveloped areas of the town, if
the town has participated in the costs, shall have the right to require
reimbursement for their actual costs, without interest, as the unimproved area
develops, such costs to be based upon the actual cost per lineal footage of
line adjacent to the area being serviced as a result of tapping into such
utility, and the owner requesting such utility service from such extension
shall be required to pay the same;
   E.   Streets: All unimproved streets shall be paved and provided with
drainage means and curb and gutter, unless acquired at the time of annexation
or subdivision under subsection B of this section, within one year after any
block area, subject to assessment, has at least fifty percent (50%) of its area
occupied for business or residence, and all persons owning unimproved areas
between the existing improved roads of the town and the road to be improved,
shall be required to provide paving and curb and gutter to fully connect the
newly proposed improvement districts or areas in accordance with the general
assessment provisions provided by statute for forming improvement districts;
all such improvements to be approved by the town;
   F.   Underground Electrical Distribution: The costs of the underground
electrical distribution lines shall be paid by the owner, less the costs of an
overhead distribution line in lieu thereof. Electrical hookup service charges
shall be at the rate currently established by ordinance. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-3-5: PROVISION OF UTILITIES TO IMPROVEMENT:
No building permits shall be issued until satisfactory arrangements have been
made and accepted by the town for providing utilities to the place of such
improvement. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
CHAPTER 4
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Water And Sewer
10-4-2: Blocks
10-4-3: Streets, Alleys And Public Ways
10-4-4: Lots
10-4-5: Easements
10-4-6: Dedication Or Reservation Of Public Sites And Open Space
10-4-1: WATER AND SEWER:
   A.   Availability: The area of the lots shall be determined by the
availability of public sewer and public water supply. Prior to the submission
of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall obtain a determination from the
town engineer as to whether adequate public sewer and water supply are
available. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Serviced By Public Water And Sewer: If the proposed subdivision is
serviced by a public water supply and a public sewer system, the minimum lot
area requirements shall be subject to those set forth in the zoning regulations
of this code.
   C.   Only Water Or Sewer Service: If the proposed subdivision is serviced
with a public water supply, but not with a public sewer system, or is serviced
with a public sewer system but not a public water supply, the preliminary plat
shall be prepared on the basis of minimum one acre lots; provided, however,
that additional lot area may be required if the area has or is suspected of
having a high water table or soil conditions prove to be unsuitable based on
percolation tests.
   D.   Neither Public Water Nor Sewer: If the proposed subdivision is not
serviced with either a public water supply or a public sewer system, the
subdivider shall submit his preliminary plat on the basis of minimum two (2)
acre lots; provided, however, that additional lot area may be required if the
area has or is suspected of having a high water table or if soil conditions
prove to be unsuitable based on percolation tests. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-4-2: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length:
      1.   Intersecting Streets: Intersecting streets (which determine block
length) shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets in the neighborhood.
      2.   Residential Districts: In residential districts, where no existing
plats are recorded, the blocks shall not exceed one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200') in length, except that a greater length may be permitted where
topography or other conditions justify a departure from this maximum.
      3.   Pedestrianways Required: In blocks longer than eight hundred feet
(800'), pedestrianways and/or easements through the block may be required near
the center of the block. Such pedestrianways or easements shall have a minimum
width of ten feet (10').
      4.   Business Use: Blocks for business use should normally not exceed six
hundred feet (600') in length.
   B.   Width:
      1.   Residential Development: In residential development, the block width
shall normally be sufficient to allow two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate
depth.
      2.   Business Or Industrial Use: Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width and depth as may be considered most
suitable for the prospective use. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-4-3: STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Relation To Adjoining Street System:
      1.   Streets: The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provisions for the continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
additions or their proper projection where adjoining property is not subdivided
insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. The width of such
streets in new subdivisions shall not be less than the minimum street widths
established in this chapter.
      2.   Alleys: Alleys, when required, and street arrangement must also be
such as to cause no hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat
their land and seek to provide for convenient access to it.
      3.   Half Streets: Whenever there exists a dedicated or platted half
street or alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other half of the
street or alley shall be platted and dedicated as a public way.
   B.   Street Names: Streets that are obviously in alignment with other
already existing and named streets shall bear the names of the existing
streets.
   C.   Major Streets: Major streets though subdivisions shall conform to the
major street plan as adopted by the planning commission and the governing body.
   D.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so designed as to discourage
through or nonlocal traffic.
   E.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall be no longer than five hundred feet
(500'), including an adequate turnaround of not less than a one hundred foot
(100') diameter right of way which shall be provided at the closed end.
   F.   Right Angle Intersections: Under normal conditions, streets shall be
laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles. Where topography
or other conditions justify a variation from the right angle intersection, the
minimum angle shall be sixty degrees (60°).
   G.   Streets Adjacent To Railroad Right Of Way, Limited Access Freeway, Or
Principal Highway: Where lots front or side, but do not back on railroad rights
of way, limited access freeways or principal highways, a marginal access street
or frontage road may be required parallel and adjacent to the boundary of such
rights of way. The distance from said rights of way shall be determined, with
due consideration, to minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separation.
   H.   Half Streets: Dedication of half streets will not be approved, except
where it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in
conformity with the major street plan and other requirements of these
regulations 1 .
   I.   Alleys: Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts.
Dead-end alleys shall be avoided, whenever possible. Alleys may be required in
certain residential areas.
   J.   Minimum Requirements: All streets, alleys and public ways included in
any subdivision hereafter dedicated and accepted shall not be less than the
minimum dimensions for each classification as follows:
   Major Streets:
 
Arterials     100 feet
Collectors    80 feet
Local streets 60 feet
Cul-de-sacs   50 feet
(radius on turnaround)
 
   Marginal Access Streets Or Frontage Roads:
 
Two-way        50 feet
One-way        50 feet
Alleys         20 feet
Pedestrianways 10 feet
 
   K.   Additional Requirements: When existing or anticipated traffic on
arterial and collector thoroughfares warrant greater widths of rights of way,
the additional width shall be provided. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
   L.   Drainage Easements: Drainage easements may be required, in addition to
street rights of way, where the street or streets adjoin or are parallel with
streams or drainage areas or where lots back onto drainage areas. The width of
such drainage easement shall be determined by the town engineer who shall
notify the planning commission of his recommendation in writing.
   M.   Street Grades: The grades of streets, alleys and other public ways
included in any subdivision shall not be greater than is necessary for the
topographical conditions and shall be subject to the approval of the town
engineer.
   N.   Street Alignment: Minimum, horizontal and vertical alignment on all
streets, except in unusual cases, shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Radii At The Centerline:
 
Major streets 300 feet
Local streets 100 feet
 
A tangent shall be provided between all reversed curves as recommended by the
engineer to provide for a smooth flow of traffic.
      2.   Vertical: All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical
curves of such length as to provide for desired sight distance and shall be
subject to the approval of the engineer. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection A3 of this section.
10-4-4: LOTS:
   A.   Width: Minimum width shall be fifty feet (50'). Said width shall be
measured at the building setback line.
   B.   Depth: Minimum depth shall be one hundred feet (100'). Said measurement
shall be made through the center of the lot and shall be perpendicular to the
property line or radial to the property line on curved streets.
   C.   Lot Area: Minimum lot area shall be subject to the zoning regulations
and sewage disposal devices to be installed. The size of all lots included in
the subdivision shall be subject to regulations as set out in section
10-4-1 of this chapter.
   D.   Private Water Supply: In subdivisions where water supply is by well or
other private means, the size of all lots included in the subdivision shall be
subject to regulations as set out in section
10-4-1 of this chapter.
   E.   Side Lot Lines: All side lot lines shall bear sixty degrees (60°) to
ninety degrees (90°) from the street right of way line on a straight street or
from the tangent of a curved street.
   F.   Corner Lots: Corner lots in residential subdivisions shall observe the
same setback on both streets.
   G.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots shall be avoided unless, in
the opinion of the planning commission, variation to this rule will give better
street alignment and lot arrangement.
   H.   Street Abutment: Every lot shall abut on a street other than an alley.
   I.   Setback Lines: Building or setback lines shall be shown on the final
plat for all lots in the subdivision and shall not be less than the setback
required by the zoning regulations.
   J.   Subdivision Or Resubdivision: The subdivision or resubdivision of a
tract or lot shall not be permitted where the subdivision or resubdivision
places an existing permanent structure in violation of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-4-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Required: Where alleys are not provided, permanent easements of not
less than seven and one-half feet (71/2') shall be provided on each side of all
rear lot lines, and on side lot lines, where necessary, for utility poles,
wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat mains and other
public utilities. These easements shall provide for a continuous right of way
of at least fifteen feet (15') in width.
   B.   Temporary Construction Easement: A twelve foot (12') wide temporary
construction easement shall be provided for initial construction of water,
sewer and other utility lines. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-4-6: DEDICATION OR RESERVATION OF PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACE:
In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due consideration should
be given by the subdivider to the dedication or reservation of suitable sites
for schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public recreational areas or open
space. Any areas so dedicated or reserved shall conform as nearly as possible
to the comprehensive plan. All areas to be reserved for, or dedicated to,
public use shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may be
determined when and in what manner such areas will be dedicated to or acquired
by the appropriate agency. A written statement from the board of education
shall be submitted by the subdivider indicating whether or not a school site in
the proposed subdivision is desired. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
CHAPTER 5
PRELIMINARY PLATS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Submission
10-5-2: Filing Fee
10-5-3: Number Of Copies
10-5-4: Contents Required
10-5-5: Approval/Disapproval
10-5-1: SUBMISSION:
After reaching the preliminary conclusions regarding the requirements for the
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat together
with any supplementary information necessary. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-5-2: FILING FEE:
A filing fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall accompany the filing of each
preliminary plat. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-5-3: NUMBER OF COPIES:
The subdivider shall submit ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat and ten
(10) copies of a vicinity map, if not on the preliminary plat. These plans
shall be filed with the official authorized to administer the subdivision
regulations at least fifteen (15) days prior to a regular planning commission
meeting at which the preliminary plat is to be considered. (Ord. 244, 4-17-
1996)
10-5-4: CONTENTS REQUIRED:
The required contents for preliminary plats shall contain the following:
   A.   The proposed name of the subdivision. The name shall not duplicate or
too closely resemble the name or names of any existing subdivision.
   B.   The location of the boundary lines of the subdivision and reference to
the section or quarter section lines.
   C.   The names and addresses of the developer, surveyor, landscape
architect, architect or engineer who prepared the plat.
   D.   Scale of the plat, one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), or
larger.
   E.   Date of preparation and north point.
   F.   Existing conditions:
      1.   Location, width and name of platted streets or other public ways,
railroads and utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces and
permanent buildings within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be
shown on the preliminary plat.
      2.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts or other
underground installations within the proposed subdivision or adjacent thereto,
with pipe size and manholes, grades and location, shall be shown.
      3.   Names of adjacent subdivisions together with arrangements of streets
and lots, and owners of adjacent parcels of unsubdivided land shall be shown.
      4.   Topography (unless specifically waived) with contour intervals of
not more than one foot (1'), referenced to municipality or USGS datum shall be
shown. Also, location of watercourses, bridges, wooded areas, lakes, ravines
and such other features as may be pertinent to the subdivision shall be shown.
   G.   The general arrangements of lots and their approximate size.
   H.   Location and width of proposed streets, alleys, pedestrianways and
easements.
   I.   The general plan of sewage disposal, water supply and utilities in
areas where public sewers and/or water are proposed to serve the subdivision.
In other cases, a notation shall be made on the plat indicating type of sewage
disposal, and water system proposed.
   J.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches, school
sites or other special uses of land to be considered for reservation for public
use.
   K.   From and after the effective date hereof, before any preliminary plat
can be considered by the mayor's advisory committee, it must first contain the
signatures and comments, if any, of the following: (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
      1.   The town supervisor;
      2.   The town engineer;
      3.   The designated representative of the applicable natural gas company;
      4.   The designated representative of the applicable telephone company;
      5.   The designated representative of the applicable cable television
company;
   L.   Upon receipt of a subdivision plat the building inspector will notify
the utility representative, as mentioned in subsection K of this section, who
will be allowed ten (10) working days to review the plat and make necessary
comments. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
10-5-5: APPROVAL/DISAPPROVAL:
Action by the planning commission shall be conveyed to the subdivider, in
writing, within ten (10) days after the official planning commission meeting at
which time the plat was considered. In case the plat is disapproved, the
subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and what
requirements shall be necessary to meet the approval of the planning
commission. The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an
acceptance of the subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed
with the preparation of the final plat. The approval of the preliminary plat
shall only be effective for a period of six (6) months, unless an extension is
granted by the planning commission. If the final plat has not been submitted
for approval within this specified period, a preliminary plat must be
resubmitted to the planning commission for approval. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Submission; Fee
10-6-2: Required Information
10-6-3: Physical Improvements
10-6-4: Consideration By Planning Commission
10-6-1: SUBMISSION; FEE:
   A.   Submission: After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall submit for approval of the planning commission a final plat.
   B.   Number Of Copies: The original on Mylar, tracing cloth or similar
material and ten (10) copies thereof shall be submitted to the official
authorized to administer the subdivision regulations at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the planning commission public hearing.
   C.   Notarized Signatures: The names and signatures of the owner or owners
of the property duly acknowledged and notarized shall appear on the original
copies submitted.
   D.   Scale; Size: The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be
drawn at a scale of at least one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
larger. The size of the sheet on which such final plat is prepared shall be
twenty inches by thirty six inches (20" x 36").
   E.   Final Filing Fee: A filing fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall accompany
the final plat.
   F.   Sheet Size For Recording Plats: The dimensions indicated are standard
for all final plats and must be complied with. Title, description and other
written data to be located either right or left. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-6-2: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The final plat shall show and contain the following information:
   A.   Name: Name of subdivision, not to duplicate or too closely resemble the
name of any existing subdivision.
   B.   Location: Location of section, township, range, county and state,
including the descriptive boundaries of the subdivisions based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must be mathematically
correct. The allowable error of closing on any portion of the plat shall be one
foot (1') in five thousand (5,000).
   C.   Monuments; Bench Marks: The location of monuments or bench marks shall
be shown and described on the final plat. Location of such monuments shall be
shown in reference to existing official monuments or the nearest established
street lines, including the true angles and distances to such reference points
or monuments.
   D.   Location Of Lots, Streets, Public Highways, Other Features: The
location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and other features
with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the length of radii
on all curves, and other information necessary to reproduce the plat on the
ground.
   E.   Lot And Block Numbers: Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks shall be
numbered or lettered clearly in the center of the block.
   F.   Streets And Alleys: The exact locations, widths and names of all
streets and alleys to be dedicated.
   G.   Boundary Lines: Boundary lines and description of the boundary lines of
any area other than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved
for public use.
   H.   Setback Lines: Building setback lines on the front and side streets,
with dimensions.
   I.   Surveyor/Engineer: Name, signature and seal of the registered surveyor
or the licensed engineer making the plat.
   J.   Scale: Scale of the plat (scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date of preparation and north point.
   K.   Statement Of Dedications: Statement dedicating all easements, streets,
alleys and all other public areas not previously dedicated.
   L.   Certificates: The following certificates, which may be combined where
appropriate:
      1.   Parties Having Record, Title Or Interest: A certificate signed and
acknowledged by all parties having any record, title or interest in the land
subdivided consenting to the preparation and recording of the said subdivision
map.
      2.   Dedications: A certificate signed and acknowledged as above,
dedicating all parcels of land shown on the final plat and intended for any
public use except those parcels which are intended for the exclusive use of the
lot owners of the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants.
      3.   Signature: A certificate signed by the licensed professional
engineer or registered surveyor responsible for the survey and the final map.
The signature of the engineer or surveyor shall be accompanied by his seal.
      4.   Notary: The acknowledgement of a notary in the following form:
      State of Wyoming     )
      ) ss.
      County of Goshen )
Be it remembered that on this       day of          , 20   , before me, a
notary public in and for said County and State, came                   , to me
personally known to be the same person who executed the foregoing instrument of
writing and duly acknowledged the execution of same. In testimony whereof, I
have hereunto set my hand and affixed my notarial seal the day and year above
written.
                                                     
                  Notary Public
(SEAL)
 
   My Commission Expires:                             
      5.   Planning Commission: The certificate of the planning commission in
the following form:
This plat of                  Addition has been submitted to and approved by
the Planning Commission this      day of            , 20      .
                                             
                  Chairman
      (SEAL)
 
                                  
      Secretary
      6.   Town Council: The acceptance of dedications by the municipal
governing body, when required, in the following form:
The dedications shown on this plat accepted by the town council of the town of
Lingle, Wyoming, this       day of              , 20       .
(SEAL)
ATTEST:
                                   
      Town Clerk-Treasurer
      7.   County Commissioners: The acceptance of dedications by the board of
county commissioners, when required, in the following form:
The dedications shown on this plat accepted by the Board of County
Commissioners of Goshen County, Wyoming, this       day of
                         , 20   .
                                                   
                  Chairman
      (SEAL)
      ATTEST:
                                                   
                  Commissioner
                                                   
                  Commissioner
                                
      County Clerk
      8.   Space For Transfer Record: A blank space for notifying entry on the
transfer record in the following for:
Entered on the transfer record this     day of       , 20   .
                                                  
                  County Clerk
      9.   Register Of Deeds: The certificate of the register of deeds in the
following form:
      State of Wyoming )
                ) ss.
      County of Goshen )
This is to certify that this instrument was filed for record in the Register of
Deeds Office on the       day of              , 20    in Book            , Page
            .
                                                  
                  Register of Deeds
   M.   Supplemental Information To Be Submitted With Final Plat: The following
additional data shall be submitted with the final plat:
      1.   Title Report: A title report by an abstract or a title insurance
company, or an attorney's opinion of title showing the name of the owner of the
land an all other persons who have an interest in or an encumbrance on the
plat. The consent of all such persons shall be shown on the plat.
      2.   Tax Certificate: A certificate showing that all taxes and special
assessments due and payable have been paid in full; or, if such taxes have been
protested as provided by law, monies or other sufficient escrows guaranteeing
such payment of taxes in the event the protest is not upheld may be placed on
deposit with such officials or governing bodies to meet this requirement.
      3.   Deed Restrictions: A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the
subdivision. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
10-6-3: PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENTS:
As a condition to the approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall agree to
install the following improvements:
   A.   Streets: Streets shall be surfaced with concrete, asphaltic concrete or
materials approved by the engineer and shall include curb. County streets and
roadways shall be improved in accordance with the requirements and
specifications of the county engineer and shall include drainageways.
   B.   Water: Where a public water supply is proposed to serve the
subdivision, the water lines shall be installed in proper easements or within
the limits of the street and alley right of way and shall be of a size as
approved by the engineer.
   C.   Sewers: If the subdivision is serviced with a public water supply and a
town or community sewage treatment plant, a sewer system shall be constructed
which will provide service to each lot within the subdivision. The system of
lateral sewers shall collect the sewage within the subdivision and discharge it
into a main sewer or a community disposal system approved by the engineer and
an approval, in writing, of the plans and specifications for the sewer system
shall be made by the engineer.
   D.   Street Signs: Street signs will be supplied and erected by the
appropriate governing authority.
   E.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in width
where required by the planning commission.
   F.   Other Improvements: If other improvements are required, such as tree
planting, retaining walls, drainage structures, etc., such improvements shall
be made in accordance with the recommendations of the planning commission and
specifications of the engineer having jurisdiction.
   G.   Lot Corners: All lot corners shall be set with one-half inch (1/2")
iron bars, two feet (2') long, and all block corners shall be set with three-
fourths inch (3/4") iron bars, three feet (3') long.
   H.   Block Markers: All block markers must be permanently set and all points
of intersection in street alignments set prior to acceptance by plat of the
town, and prior to any lot being sold, the total block must be staked and
corners set for all lots. Block corners shall be set one foot (1') below grade.
   I.   Bench Marks: A minimum of two (2) bench marks (monuments) shall be
placed in each subdivision, located and installed as required by the engineer.
In subdivisions larger than forty (40) acres, one bench mark shall be installed
for each additional twenty (20) acre area. The monument shall be a three inch
(3") brass cap set permanently in concrete, ten inches (10") in diameter by
twenty four inches (24") deep approved by the engineer. The elevation of the
monuments shall be identified on each.
   J.   Bond For Construction: In lieu of the actual construction of the
physical improvements required, the planning commission and governing body may
accept one of the following:
      1.   A bond guaranteeing construction of the required improvements within
a period of time to be specified and approved by the governing body. (Ord. 244,
4-17-1996)
      2.   A petition, presented and approved by the governing body, properly
executed by the property owners, as provided by law, for the construction by
the governing body of the improvements, to be assessed against the subdivided
property. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
10-6-4: CONSIDERATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
If the planning commission rejects or withholds approval of the final plat, the
subdivider may request that the plat be submitted to the governing body. The
secretary of the planning commission shall forward the proposed plat together
with the report of the planning commission stating the reasons for its action.
The governing body may make such findings and determinations as they deem
proper. (Ord. 244, 4-17-1996)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Interpretation And Scope
11-1-3: Application
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title, including the zoning district maps made a part hereof, shall be
known, and may be cited and referred to as the ZONING ORDINANCE FOR THE TOWN OF
LINGLE, WYOMING. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-1-2: INTERPRETATION AND SCOPE:
In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and welfare. Where this title imposes a greater restriction
upon land, buildings, or structures than is imposed or required by existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this title
shall control. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-1-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Conformity Of Buildings And Land: No building, structure or premises
shall be used or occupied, and no building, or part thereof or other structure
shall be erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or
altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
district, as shown on the official map, in which it is located.
   B.   Conformity Of Buildings: No building, structure or premises shall be
erected, altered or used so as to produce greater height, smaller yards or less
unoccupied area; and no buildings shall be occupied by more families than
prescribed for such building, structure or premises for the district in which
it is located.
   C.   Conformity Of Open Spaces: No yard, court or open space, or part
thereof, required for a building, structure or dwelling under this title shall
be included as a part of the yard, court or open space similarly required for
any other building, structure or dwelling under this title. (Ord. 130, 12-29-
1975)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
For the purpose of these zoning regulations, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Words and numbers used singularly shall include the plural and the
plural, the singular. Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   B.   The words "persons" includes a corporation, members of a partnership or
other business organization, a committee, board, trustee, receiver, agent or
other representative.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory.
   D.   The word "use", "used", "occupy" or "occupied" as applied to any land
or building shall be construed to include the words "intended", "arranged" or
"designed" to be used or occupied. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these zoning regulations, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted or defined as follows, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate building or use which customarily is
incidental to that of the main building or use of the premises. Customary
accessory uses include, but are not limited to, tennis courts, swimming pools,
garages, air conditioners, garden houses, children's playhouses, barbecue ovens
and fireplaces.
ALLEY: A dedicated public right of way, other than a street, which provides
only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
ALTERATION: As applied to a building or structure, is a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts of an existing building or structure. Enlargement,
whether by extending a side, increasing in height, or the moving from one
location or position to another, shall be considered as an alteration.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A residential building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two (2) families, independently.
BASEMENT HOUSE: A residential building having more than one-half (1/2) of its
height below grade.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the enclosure, shelter or
protection of persons, animals or property.
BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its
accessories.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line on a plat, generally parallel with the
street right of way, indicating the limit beyond which no building or structure
or portion thereof, except as provided in this title, may be erected above the
grade level. The building line is considered a vertical surface intersecting
the ground on such a line.
CORNER LOT: A lot abutting two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
DEPTH OF LOT: The mean distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
HALF STORY: A story which is situated in a sloping roof, the floor area of
which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area of the story
immediately below it and which does not contain an independent apartment.
INTERIOR LOT: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one building and
the accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to it, including such
open spaces as are required by this title.
MOBILE HOME: Any prefabricated structure composed of one or more parts designed
for a long term occupancy and containing sleeping accommodations, a flush
toilet, a tub or a shower bath, and kitchen facilities with plumbing and
electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems; shipped or
moved in essentially a complete condition ready for occupancy, except for minor
and incidental unpacking and assembly operations and mounted on wheels, skids
or rollers, jacks, blocks, horses, skirting or a temporary or permanent
foundation; or any prefabricated structure which has been or reasonably can be
equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting the structure from place
to place whether by motive power or other means.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of
the enactment of this title, and which does not conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is situated as established by the provisions of this
title or amendments thereto.
PARKING SPACE: An area surfaced for all weather use including gravel, sand, or
comparable material for the purpose of storing one parked automobile. For the
purpose of these regulations, one parking space shall have a minimum width of
eight and one-half feet (81/2') and a minimum length of nineteen feet (19'). In
computing off street parking, additional space shall be required for access
drives to each parking space.
PRIVATE GARAGE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of motor
driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory.
PROPERTY LINE: The dividing line between the lot which is in private ownership
and abutting areas which have been dedicated or deeded for public use as a
street, alley or thoroughfare.
REAR YARD: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot, unobstructed to the
sky and extending the full width of the lot.
SIDE YARD: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building situated
between the building and the side line of the lot extending through from the
street to the rear yard; but, where no rear yard is required, to the rear line
of the lot.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A residential building having accommodations for and
occupied exclusively by one family.
STREET: A right of way dedicated to the public use which provides vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and the
contiguous streets.
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A residential building having accommodations for and
occupied exclusively by two (2) families, independently.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied and
maintained.
YARD: A space on the same lot with a main building, open, unoccupied, and
unobstructed by buildings or structures from the ground upward.
YARD FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the least distance between the street right of way and the building
setback line. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Established
11-3-2: Adoption Of Zoning Map
11-3-3: Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries
11-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this title, the town is hereby divided into districts,
which shall be known as follows:
   Zone 1, residential district, class 1
   Zone 1, residential district, class 2
   Zone 2, business district, class 1
   Zone 2, business district, class 2
   Zone 3, mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions
   Zone 4, industrial district
(Ord. 200, 11-7-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
11-3-2: ADOPTION OF ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of such districts are hereby established as shown on the map
prepared by the zoning commission designated as the zoning district map
attached to ordinance 130 on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer,
which map together with all notations, references and other information shown
thereon is hereby made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein at length.
(2002 Code)
11-3-3: INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the districts as
shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where Boundaries Approximately Follow Streets, Alleys, Or Highways:
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerline or street line of streets, the centerline or alley line of alleys,
or the centerlines or right of way lines of highways, such lines shall be
construed to be such district boundaries.
   B.   Where Boundaries Parallel Street Lines, Alley Lines Or Highway Right Of
Way Lines: Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, the
centerlines or alley lines of alleys, or the centerlines or right of way lines
of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel
thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no
distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale
shown on the zoning map.
   C.   Where Boundaries Approximately Follow Lot Lines: Where district
boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot lines, such lot lines
shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   D.   Where Boundaries Follow A Railroad Line: Where the boundary of a
district follows a railroad line, such boundary shall be deemed to be located
midway between the main tracks of said railroad line.
   E.   District Regulations Apply To Schools, Parks: Any areas shown on the
zoning map as park, playground, school, cemetery, water, street, or right of
way shall be subject to the zoning regulations of the district in which they
are located. In case of doubt, the zoning regulations of the most restrictive
adjoining district shall govern.
   F.   Where Property Has Not Been Included In District: In every case where
property has not been specifically included within a district or where
territory has become a part of the town by annexation, the same shall
automatically be classed as lying and being within zone 1, residential
district, class 1, until such classification shall have been changed by an
amendment to the zoning ordinance as provided by law.
   G.   Vacation Of Public Ways: Whenever any street, alley, or other public
way is vacated in the manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining
each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended
to the center of such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then
and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended district. (Ord.
130, 12-29-1975)
ARTICLE A. ZONE 1, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, CLASS 1
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Permitted Uses
11-3A-2: Prohibited Uses
11-3A-3: Lot Area
11-3A-4: Lot Coverage
11-3A-5: Setbacks
11-3A-6: Maximum Height
11-3A-7: Off Street Parking
11-3A-8: Fences
11-3A-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Residential Dwellings: In zone 1, residential district, class 1, there
may be erected, altered and maintained only single-family and two-family
dwellings, with or without accessory buildings or uses as are appropriate to
such dwelling or dwellings, including private garages.
   B.   Raising Vegetables And Produce: The raising of vegetables and produce
shall be permitted within said district; provided, that there shall be no
farmhouse, stable or livestock maintained in connection therewith or on
properties within such district.
   C.   Home Occupations: The occupants of such dwellings may be engaged
therein in such professions or occupations as are ordinarily carried on in a
private home, including, but not limited to, the home office of a physician,
dentist, insurance agent, or realtor.
   D.   Other Uses: Other uses permitted in such district are public parks and
playgrounds, all of which must conform to the regulations herein established
and must maintain the character of residential surroundings. (Ord. 177, 4-28-
1982)
11-3A-2: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Basement Homes: No basement homes shall be permitted in this zone.
   B.   Mobile Home; Temporary Shelter: No mobile home or temporary shelter
shall hereinafter be situated in this zone. (Ord. 177, 4-28-1982)
11-3A-3: LOT AREA:
   A.   Single-Family Dwelling: The minimum lot area per family for single-
family dwelling shall be seven thousand (7,000) square feet; provided, that
where there is an existing dwelling on the rear half of the lot, one additional
dwelling may be constructed on the front one-half (1/2) of the lot if such
construction complies with the other provisions of this title.
   B.   Two-Family Dwelling: The minimum lot area per family for two-family
dwellings shall be three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet. (Ord. 177,
4-28-1982)
11-3A-4: LOT COVERAGE:
No more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of an interior lot in such
district shall be covered by a building or buildings nor more than forty
percent (40%) of a corner lot. (Ord. 177, 4-28-1982)
11-3A-5: SETBACKS:
Any building or structure erected or to be erected within this district shall
be located on the lot in conformance with the requirements as specified by the
town building code, other ordinances as now or hereafter adopted or amended,
and the yard regulations as herein provided for. (Ord. 177, 4-28-1982)
11-3A-6: MAXIMUM HEIGHT:
   A.   Dwellings: The height of buildings in this district shall be limited to
two and one-half (21/2) stories.
   B.   Radio And Television Towers: The maximum height of all radio and
television towers or antennas shall be seventy five feet (75') above the grade
of the lot. (Ord. 177, 4-28-1982)
11-3A-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
One off street parking space per family shall be provided for all single- and
two-family dwellings hereinafter constructed. (Ord. 177, 4-28-1982)
11-3A-8: FENCES:
   A.   Maximum Height: Except at the rear of lots abutting on an alley, no
solid fences shall be erected to a height greater than four feet (4') above the
ground. At the rear of lots abutting on alleys, solid fences or walls may be
erected to a height of not more than six feet (6') above the ground.
   B.   Partition Fences: Partition fences on the lot line between two (2) lots
may be erected to a maximum height of six feet (6'); provided, that the excess
height above four feet (4') shall not be of solid construction.
   C.   Interior Lots: On an interior lot, the total height of that portion of
such fence between the front setback line and the front lot line shall not
exceed three and one-half feet (31/2').
   D.   Barbed Wire; Electric Fence: The use of barbed or electric wire is
prohibited.
   E.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, fences and other structures shall conform
to the specifications as described by the sight triangle in section
11-9-1 of this title. (Ord. 177, 4-28-1982)
ARTICLE B. ZONE 1, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, CLASS 2
SECTION:
11-3B-1: Uses
11-3B-2: Lot Area
11-3B-3: Height; Lot Coverage
11-3B-4: Setbacks
11-3B-5: Off Street Parking
11-3B-1: USES:
In zone 1, residential district, class 2, there shall be permitted the same
uses subject to the same restrictions and controls provided for zone 1,
residential district, class 1, excepting only the erection, alteration and
maintenance of public, private or parochial grade or high schools, or other
educational or religious institutions other than for correctional purposes;
churches, libraries, noncommercial museums, public utility substations,
hospitals and sanitariums other than for the contagious or insane; multiple
dwellings, apartment houses; lodging or rooming houses, clubs and mortuaries
and/or funeral homes. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3B-2: LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area per family shall be as follows:
 
Single-family dwelling                4,900 square feet
Two-family dwelling, per family       3,500 square feet
Multiple-family dwellings, per family 800 square feet
 
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3B-3: HEIGHT; LOT COVERAGE:
Buildings within this district shall not exceed sixty feet (60') in height and
shall not occupy more than seventy percent (70%) of the area of an interior
lot, or eighty percent (80%) of the area of a corner lot. (Ord. 130, 12-29-
1975)
11-3B-4: SETBACKS:
Any building or structure erected or to be erected within this district shall
be established on the lot in conformance with the requirements as specified by
the town building code and other ordinances as now or later adopted or amended.
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3B-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Multi-Family Dwellings: Off street parking space for multiple-family
dwellings shall be provided as follows:
      1.   One space for each apartment or fraction thereof;
      2.   Rooming houses, one space for each two (2) rooms or fraction
thereof.
   B.   Schools, Churches, Places Of Assembly: Off street parking spaces for
schools, churches and places of public assembly hereinafter constructed shall
be provided as follows:
      1.   Grade schools, two (2) spaces per each teacher;
      2.   High schools and colleges, five (5) spaces per each teacher;
      3.   Churches and other public assembly places, one space for each ten
(10) seats. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
ARTICLE C. ZONE 2, BUSINESS DISTRICT, CLASS 1
SECTION:
11-3C-1: Uses
11-3C-2: Setback, Change From Residential To Business
11-3C-3: Signs
11-3C-4: Performance Standards
11-3C-5: Off Street Loading
11-3C-1: USES:
In zone 2, business district, class 1, there may be erected, altered and
maintained all uses permitted in zone 1, and, in addition thereto, only the
following:
Financial institutions, offices, grocery stores, drug stores, clothing stores,
confectioneries, delicatessens, barber shops, beauty shops, restaurants, public
buildings and printing establishments, hotels, theaters, cafes and such other
similar businesses that correspond to the uses herein set forth and that are
not opposed to the general intent and plan of the zoning ordinance; such other
businesses to be approved by the board of adjustment. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3C-2: SETBACK, CHANGE FROM RESIDENTIAL TO BUSINESS:
When a lot in a residential zone is changed to a business lot in this district,
any building constructed thereon must conform with the setback requirements in
the residential zone. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3C-3: SIGNS:
Advertising signs shall also be permitted within said district. (Ord. 130, 12-
29-1975)
11-3C-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Within said zone 2, business district, no building or premises shall be used
for, nor shall any buildings be erected which are arranged, maintained or
designed for, any kind of trade, industry or use which is noxious or offensive
by reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas or noise. (Ord. 130, 12-29-
1975)
11-3C-5: OFF STREET LOADING:
Off street loading space for business establishments shall be provided as
follows:
Every building hereinafter erected on a lot abutting upon any alley, unless
such building also abuts on an intersecting street, shall provide a loading
space for use of vehicles serving such business. Such loading space, unless
adequately provided elsewhere on the lot, shall extend not less than eighteen
feet (18') in depth back from the alley line along fifty percent (50%) of the
alley frontage, but in no case along less than twenty five feet (25'). In lieu
of the foregoing requirements, a lot fifty feet (50') or more in width may
provide a loading space of not less than ten feet (10') in depth back from the
alley line along the entire alley frontage. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
ARTICLE D. ZONE 2, BUSINESS DISTRICT, CLASS 2
SECTION:
11-3D-1: Uses
11-3D-2: Performance Standards
11-3D-3: Additional Regulations
11-3D-1: USES:
In zone 2, business district, class 2, there may be erected, altered, and
maintained all uses permitted in zone 2, business district, class 1; in
addition thereto only the following: grain elevators, bean elevators, and light
manufacturing, and such other similar businesses that correspond to the uses
herein set forth and that are not opposed to the general intent and plan of the
zoning ordinance; such other businesses to be approved by the board of
adjustment. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3D-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Within said zone 2, business district, class 2, no building or premises shall
be used for, nor shall any buildings be erected which are arranged, maintained,
or designed for, any kind of trade, industry or use which will be offensive to
neighboring business, residential, or mobile park areas by virtue of the
emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise or any chemical emissions. (Ord. 130,
12-29-1975)
11-3D-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
Other than the above stated limitations, zone 2, business district, class 2
shall be subject to the same regulations as zone 2, business district, class 1.
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
ARTICLE E. ZONE 3, MOBILE HOME PARKS AND MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3E-1: Uses
11-3E-2: Tract Size
11-3E-3: Location
11-3E-4: Maximum Density
11-3E-5: Setbacks
11-3E-6: Roadways
11-3E-7: Common Walks
11-3E-8: Mobile Home Subdivisions
11-3E-1: USES:
Zone 3, mobile home park, shall be maintained only for mobile homes of the type
designed for more or less permanent abode; this to exclude the camping trailer
type units, or units designed for temporary or casual abode. Mobile homes shall
henceforth be located only in mobile home parks. A mobile home park shall not
be used for other than residential purposes. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-2: TRACT SIZE:
The tract to be used for a mobile home park shall not be less than three (3)
acres in area. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-3: LOCATION:
The park shall be located on a well drained site properly graded to ensure
rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-4: MAXIMUM DENSITY:
Mobile home parks hereafter approved shall have a maximum density of seven (7)
mobile homes per gross acre and a minimum area of three thousand six hundred
(3,600) square feet shall be provided for each mobile home space. Each mobile
home space shall be at least forty feet (40') wide and be clearly defined.
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-5: SETBACKS:
Mobile homes shall be located on each space so as to maintain a setback of no
less than twenty feet (20') from any public street or highway right of way.
Mobile homes shall maintain a setback of no less than ten feet (10') from the
edge of a park, roadway, or sidewalk or a rear boundary line when such boundary
line is not common to any public street or highway right of way, and as to
maintain a setback of no less than five feet (5') from any side boundary line
of a mobile home space. No mobile home shall be located closer than twenty five
feet (25') from any building within the park. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-6: ROADWAYS:
   A.   Width: All mobile home spaces shall front upon a private roadway of not
less than twenty four feet (24') in width, if no on street parking is
permitted. If on street parking is to be permitted, eight (8) extra feet of
roadway shall be provided for each side that parking shall be permitted on.
   B.   Specifications: All roadways within the mobile home parks shall be
graveled with curb and gutter. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-7: COMMON WALKS:
Common walks not less than three feet (3') in width and four inches (4") thick
shall be provided in locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated and in
all cases along space fronts. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-3E-8: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the same regulations as mobile
home parks but, whereas mobile home parks shall be limited to one ownership,
mobile home subdivisions shall allow the purchasing of lots by private parties
for individual mobile homes. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
ARTICLE F. ZONE 4, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3F-1: Uses
11-3F-2: Residential Dwellings
11-3F-1: USES:
In zone 4, industrial district, there may be erected, altered and maintained
only those uses permitted in zone 2, business district, class 2; and, in
addition thereto, the following: heavy manufacturing and industry, industrial
and municipal landfill, water treatment facilities, wastewater and sewer
treatment facilities, and such other similar businesses or facilities that
correspond to the uses set forth herein as may be approved by the board of
adjustment. (Ord. 200, 11-7-1984)
11-3F-2: RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS:
Within zone 4, industrial district, no permanent residential dwellings shall be
erected or maintained. (Ord. 200, 11-7-1984)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Signatures Of Owners
11-4-2: Setbacks
11-4-3: Yard Regulations
11-4-4: Signs
11-4-5: Town Parking
11-4-6: Temporary Mobile Unit
11-4-1: SIGNATURES OF OWNERS:
When this title requires the signature of an owner of property, the persons who
are purchasing property under contract may sign their names or name as the
owners of the property covered by the contract of purchase, and shall be
construed hereunder as the owners of such property; provided, that it shall be
shown in connection with such signatures that such persons are purchasing such
property under contract; and provided further, that the town council may
require submission of satisfactory proof of such contract of purchase. (Ord.
130, 12-29-1975)
11-4-2: SETBACKS:
   A.   Residential Buildings: For any residential building, including
accessory buildings or uses for any such residential building, there is a
building line, which building line shall be twenty five feet (25') distant from
the property line.
   B.   New Construction Where Setbacks Preexist: In cases where construction
is proposed and the hereinbefore established setback lines in the opinion of
the council are improper for the particular location involved, the town council
may, upon petition of the owner, grant a permit for the location of the
proposed building back of a setback line located at a distance from the street
determined by the average distances from said street of existing buildings in
the block facing the street on which the proposed building is to face. (Ord.
130, 12-29-1975)
11-4-3: YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yards:
      1.   Depth: The front yard shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25')
in depth measured from the front lot line.
      2.   Double Frontage Lots: Where lots have a double frontage, the
required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
      3.   Corner Lots: Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2)
or more streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner
lot; provided, however, that the buildable width of a lot of record at the time
of the passage hereof need not be reduced to less than thirty five feet (35'),
except where necessary to provide a yard along the side street with a depth of
not less than five feet (5'). No accessory building shall project beyond the
front yard line on either street.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Width: There shall be a side yard having a width of not less than
eight feet (8') on each side of the principal residential building, and all
other permitted and conditional uses shall provide a five foot (5') side yard.
      2.   Preexisting Lots: Whenever a lot of record existing at the time of
the passage hereof has a width of fifty feet (50') or less, the side yard on
each side of a building may be reduced to a width of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the width of the lot, but in no instance shall it be less than five
feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yards: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
thirty feet (30') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-4-4: SIGNS:
   A.   Home Occupations; Advertising Signs: Signs on residences indicating
private or business occupations permitted in zone 1, residential districts,
class 1, shall be attached flat against the building and shall not exceed
twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18") in size. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975;
amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Schools; Public Buildings: Signs on schools or public buildings
permitted in zone 1, residential district, class 2, shall be attached flat
against the building and shall not exceed six (6) square feet in size.
   C.   Conformance Required; Temporary Signs: No person shall erect or
maintain any sign in either of said districts which does not conform to the
foregoing limitations; provided, that the above restrictions shall not apply to
temporary signs erected to advertise real estate for sale or church signs.
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-4-5: TOWN PARKING:
The owner or occupant of every property in the town shall maintain the town
parking adjacent to such property in a manner and condition conforming to the
character or maintenance of the parking common to the street on which the same
is located; provided, no hedge, row of shrubs, or fence shall be planted,
constructed or maintained in the public street. All existing hedges, shrubs, or
fences in the public streets which, in the opinion of the town council,
interfere with the lawful use of the street, shall be removed by the owner
within ten (10) days after written notice to so remove. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-4-6: TEMPORARY MOBILE UNIT:
The board of adjustment may, by use permit, authorize the placement of a mobile
home on any property in any district on a temporary basis, subject to the
following conditions and requirements:
   A.   Due Cause: The applicant shall show due cause that a need exists and
that this need cannot reasonably be alleviated without the granting of this
permit.
   B.   Location: The location of such mobile unit shall conform to all
regulations of the district in which it is located and any additional
conditions deemed necessary by the board of adjustment.
   C.   Use: A mobile unit in a residential area may be used only for a
temporary building site office or other utility. Such use shall not include
residential use.
   D.   Time Limitation: Such usage shall be limited to ninety (90) days
duration. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Existing Use Allowed To Continue
11-5-2: Extension Of Use Prohibited; Exception
11-5-3: Reconstruction; Alteration
11-5-4: Change To More Restricted Nonconforming Use
11-5-5: Damage By Fire Or Other Cause
11-5-6: Building Permit Issued Prior To Adoption
11-5-7: Nonconforming Signs
11-5-1: EXISTING USE ALLOWED TO CONTINUE:
When a property or an existing building at the time of the passage of this
title has a use which is legal prior to the passage of this title, such use may
continue even though same be not in conformity to the zoning regulations. If,
however, the use of the building or premises is changed, it shall be changed to
use conforming to the zoning regulations and, after such change, it will not be
permissible to change back again to the original nonconforming use. (Ord. 130,
12-29-1975)
11-5-2: EXTENSION OF USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Prohibited: A nonconforming use shall not be extended, except as
hereinafter expressly provided, but the extension of a use to a portion of a
building which was arranged or designed for such nonconforming use at the time
of the passage of this title shall not be deemed the extension of a
nonconforming use.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of this section prohibiting the extension of
a nonconforming use shall not apply to churches, hospitals, public schools and
colleges, mortuaries, or meeting halls maintained by fraternal nonprofit
organizations. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-5-3: RECONSTRUCTION; ALTERATION:
A building arranged, designed or devoted to a nonconforming use at the time of
the passage of this title may not be reconstructed or structurally altered to
an extent exceeding an aggregate cost during any ten (10) year period of fifty
percent (50%) of the value of the building, unless the use of such building is
changed to a conforming use. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-5-4: CHANGE TO MORE RESTRICTED NONCONFORMING USE:
A nonconforming use, if changed to a more restricted nonconforming use, shall
not thereafter be changed to a lesser restricted use. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-5-5: DAMAGE BY FIRE OR OTHER CAUSE:
   A.   Conformance Required: When a building having a nonconforming use is
damaged by fire or other cause so that the total deterioration exceeds eighty
percent (80%) of the cost of replacing the building using new materials, then
such buildings shall not be rebuilt, unless such building in its construction
and use conforms fully to the new requirements of this title and other
ordinances of the town as applied to new buildings and uses in the district in
which it is located.
   B.   Time Limitation For Rebuilding: When a nonconforming use building is
damaged by fire, rebuilding shall commence within six (6) months, if the new
building is to be used for the same use as before the fire. (Ord. 130, 12-29-
1975)
11-5-6: BUILDING PERMIT ISSUED PRIOR TO ADOPTION:
Nothing contained in this title shall require a change in the plans,
construction, alteration or designated use of a building for which a building
permit shall have been issued before adoption of this title, and the
construction of which shall have been actually begun and diligently prosecuted
within six (6) months of the date of issuance of said permit, and the ground
store framework of which, including the second tier of beams, shall have been
completed according to such plans as filed within one year from the date of the
permit. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-5-7: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
A nonconforming advertising sign if removed from the premises, may not be
replaced. No exterior sign aggregating more than six (6) square feet in area
shall hereafter be erected to advertise a nonconforming use. (Ord. 130, 12-29-
1975)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Created
11-6-2: Membership
11-6-3: Chairman; Clerk-Treasurer
11-6-4: Meetings
11-6-5: Administration Of Oaths; Compel Attendance
11-6-6: Rules Of Procedure
11-6-7: Minutes
11-6-8: Quorum; Voting
11-6-9: Powers And Jurisdiction
11-6-10: Performance
11-6-11: Appeals From Board Decision
11-6-1: CREATED:
A board of adjustment is hereby created in accordance with state statutes
governing such creation. The word "board" when used in this chapter shall mean
board of adjustment. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The town council shall constitute the board of adjustment. (Ord. 130, 12-29-
1975)
11-6-3: CHAIRMAN; CLERK-TREASURER:
The mayor or, in his absence, the president of the town council, shall act as
chairman, and the town clerk-treasurer shall act as clerk of the board. (Ord.
130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings Called: Meetings of such town council, as such board of
adjustment, shall be held when called by the mayor or by any two (2) council
members upon at least six (6) hours' written notice and may also be held
immediately following the adjournment of any regular meeting of such town
council.
   B.   Location: All of the board's meetings shall be held at the regular
place of meeting of such town council.
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-5: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS; COMPEL ATTENDANCE:
The mayor or, in his absence, the president of the town council may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-6: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The board shall adopt rules of procedure as may be necessary and proper to
govern its own proceedings; such rules shall not be in conflict with other
laws, ordinances or resolutions. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-7: MINUTES:
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the description of
evidence presented, the findings of fact by the board, decision of the board
and the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the board
immediately and shall be a public record. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-8: QUORUM; VOTING:
A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, and a concurring vote of a majority of the entire board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
building inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant upon any matter which
it is required to pass under any such regulation or to effect any variation in
such regulation. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-9: POWERS AND JURISDICTION:
The board shall have the following powers and jurisdiction:
   A.   Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building
inspector in the enforcement of these regulations.
      1.   Right To Appeal: Appeals to the board may be taken by any person
aggrieved, or by any officer, department, or bureau of the government effected
by any decision of the building inspector.
      2.   Notice Of Appeal: Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as shall be prescribed by the board by general rule, by filing with the
building inspector and with the secretary of the board a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof.
      3.   Transmittal Of Records: The building inspector shall forthwith
transmit to the secretary of the board all papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from is taken.
      4.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the building inspector certifies to the
board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board
or by a court of record upon application or notice to the building inspector on
good cause shown.
   B.   Variances: To authorize, in specific cases, a variance from the
specific terms of these regulations which will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to the special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of these regulations will, in an individual case, result in
unnecessary hardship; provided the spirit of these regulations shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
      1.   Showing By Applicant: The applicant must show that his property was
acquired in good faith and where, by reason of exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or shape of his specific piece of property at the time of the
effective date of the district zoning regulations or where by reason of
exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional
circumstances, the strict applications of the terms of the zoning regulations
actually prohibit the use of his property in the manner similar to that of
other property in the zoning district where it is located.
      2.   Approval; Criteria: A request for variance may be granted upon a
finding of the board that all of the following conditions have been met. The
board shall make a determination on each condition and the findings shall be
entered in the records:
         a.   The variance requested arises from such condition which is unique
to the property in question and which is not ordinarily found in the same zone
or district; and is not created by an action or actions of the property owner
or applicant.
         b.   The granting of the permit for the variance will not adversely
affect the rights of adjacent property owners or residents.
         c.   The strict application of the provisions of the zoning
regulations of which the variance is requested will constitute unnecessary
hardship upon the property owner represented in the application.
         d.   The variance desired will not adversely affect the public health,
safety, order, convenience, prosperity or general welfare.
         e.   The granting of the variance desired will not be opposed to the
general spirit and intent of the zoning regulations.
   C.   Conditions Of Determination: In exercising the foregoing powers, the
board, in conformity with the provisions of this title, may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from
where the appeal is taken, may attach appropriate conditions, and may issue or
direct the issuance of a permit.
   D.   Hearings: Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
   E.   Applications:
      1.   Request For Hearing: The procedure for requesting a hearing before
the board shall be as follows:
         a.   Application; Form: All applications to the board shall be in
writing on forms provided by the board.
         b.   Notice Of Hearing:
            (1)   Publication: The board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of an application and notice of the time, place and subject of each
hearing shall be published in the official newspaper (as designated by the
governing body) at least ten (10) days prior to the date fixed for the public
hearing.
            (2)   Mail: A copy of the notice of the public hearing shall be
sent to each party of interest and to the planning commission, if any be
established.
            (3)   Posting: At least twenty (20) days prior to the date fixed
for the public hearing, the applicant shall place in a conspicuous area on or
near the property in question not less than one sign, of a minimum of two (2)
square feet in area, containing notice of the time, place and subject of such
hearing.
         c.   Filing Fee: An application shall be accompanied by a filing fee
of seventy-five dollars ($75.00). Applicant is also responsible for all
publication costs incurred by the Town to publish public notice.
      2.   Additional Information Required: In addition to the above
requirements, certain applications require additional information as follows:
         a.   Appeals:
            (1)   An application for an appeal shall be filed within sixty (60)
days after a ruling has been made by the building inspector.
            (2)   A copy of the order, requirement, decision or determination
of the building inspector which the appellant believes to be in error.
            (3)   A clear and accurate written description of the proposed use,
work or action in which the appeal is involved and a statement justifying the
appellant's position.
            (4)   Where necessary, a plot plan, drawn to scale, in duplicate,
showing existing and proposed plans for the area in question shall be
submitted.
         b.   Variances:
            (1)   The applicant shall submit a statement, in writing,
justifying the variance requested, indicating specifically the enforcement
provisions of the zoning regulations from which the variance is requested, and
outlining in detail the manner in which it is believed that this application
will meet each of the conditions as set forth in subsection B2 of this section.
            (2)   The applicant shall submit a sketch, in duplicate, drawn to
scale and showing the lot or lots included in the application, the structures
existing thereon, and the structures contemplated necessitating the variance
requested. All appropriate dimensions should be included and any other
information which would be helpful to the board in consideration of the
application. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 354, 6-9-2021)
11-6-10: PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Imposition Of Additional Restrictions: In making any decision varying
or modifying any provisions of the zoning regulations or in granting an
exemption to the district regulations, the board shall impose such
restrictions, terms, time limitations, landscaping and other appropriate
safeguards to adjoining property.
   B.   Require Performance Bond: The board may require a performance bond to
guarantee the installation of improvements such as parking lot surfacing,
landscaping, etc. The amount of the bond shall be based on a general estimate
of the cost for the improvements as determined by the board, and shall be
enforceable by or payable to the governing body in the sum equal to the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
   C.   Imposition Of Time Limitation: In lieu of the performance bond
requirement, the board may specify a time limit for the completion of such
required improvements, and in the event the improvements are not completed
within the specified time, the board may declare the granting of the
application null and void after reconsideration. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-6-11: APPEALS FROM BOARD DECISION:
Any person, persons, department or departments of the government jointly or
separately aggrieved by any decision of the board may present to the district
court having jurisdiction, a petition, duly verified, stating that such
decision is illegal in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the
illegality and asking for relief therefrom. Such petition shall be presented to
the court within thirty (30) days after the date of filing the decision in the
office of the board. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
CHAPTER 7
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Zoning Officer
11-7-2: Permits
11-7-3: Penalty
11-7-1: ZONING OFFICER:
   A.   Appointed: A zoning officer shall be appointed by the governing body.
The building inspector shall perform the duties of the zoning officer.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of such building inspector to enforce
these regulations.
   C.   Appeals: Appeals from the decision of the building inspector may be to
the board of adjustment. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975; amd. 2002 Code)
11-7-2: PERMITS:
   A.   Zoning Permit: Prior to the erection of any structure, an application
for a zoning permit shall be prepared on forms provided and shall be submitted
to the building inspector accompanied by a plot plan in duplicate, drawn to
scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size,
shape and location of the building to be erected, required setbacks, points of
ingress and egress, driveways, circulation aisles, parking lots, individual
parking spaces, service areas, and such other information as may be necessary
to provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A record of the
applications, plans and permits shall be kept in the office of the building
inspector.
   B.   Building Permit: Where building codes have been adopted, the above
zoning permit information may be incorporated into the building permit so that
it is necessary to issue only one permit for new development.
   C.   Occupancy Permit: Prior to the occupancy of any new structure on any
vacant parcel of land or the change of use of an existing structure or parcel
of land, an application for an occupancy permit shall be approved by the
building inspector. An occupancy permit shall certify that an on site
inspection has been performed and that any changes or improvements are in
compliance with the zoning or building permit requested. The occupancy permit
may be combined with the zoning or building permit for ease of administration.
(Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-7-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon
which a violation of any provision of these regulations has been committed or
shall exist, or the lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises
in or upon which violation has been committed or shall exist, or the agent,
architect, building contractor, or any other person who commits, takes part or
assists in any violation or who maintains any building or premises in or upon
which violation has been committed or shall exist, shall be punished by a fine
as established in
title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each and every day that such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975; amd. Ord.
308, 10-7-2009)
   B.   Additional Remedies: In case any structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any structure or
land is used in violation to these regulations, the appropriate authorities of
said area, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus,
or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use, or to
correct or abate such violation or to prevent the occupancy of said building,
structure or land. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
CHAPTER 8
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Procedure
11-8-2: Fees
11-8-1: PROCEDURE:
The governing body may from time to time supplement, change or generally revise
the boundaries or regulations contained in these zoning regulations by the
amending procedure set out in the state statutes. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
11-8-2: FEES:
For the purpose of wholly or partially defraying the costs of the amendment
proceedings, including publication costs, a fee in the amount of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid upon filing of each application for a change of district
boundaries or classification. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975)
CHAPTER 9
DIAGRAMS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Sight Triangle
11-9-1: SIGHT TRIANGLE:
The sight triangle diagram is attached to ordinance 130 on file in the office
of the town clerk-treasurer and is incorporated herein by reference as though
fully set forth in full and at length. (Ord. 130, 12-29-1975; amd. 2002 Code)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Wyoming has, in Wyoming Statutes subsection 15-
1-103(a)(x)(i), delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The council of the town of Lingle, Wyoming, does ordain as follows:
   A.   Certain areas of the town of Lingle may be subject to periodic
inundation which could result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These potential flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas subject to potential flood hazards which increase flood
heights and velocities; and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other
areas. Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected
from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas subject to periodic flood hazards so as to minimize future
flood blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area subject to potential flood hazards; and
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas subject to potential flood
hazards assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
C. Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: General Definitions
12-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within an
area subject to potential flood hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of
the improvement.
   B.   This term includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      1.   ny project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
      2.   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Lands To Which Title Applies
12-3-2: Compliance
12-3-3: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-3-4: Interpretation
12-3-5: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all areas within the jurisdiction of the town of
Lingle. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-3-2: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-3-3: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 260, 8-
18-1999)
12-3-4: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-3-5: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This title shall not create liability on the part of the town of Lingle, any
officer or employee thereof, or the federal emergency management agency for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-4-1: Establishment Of Development Review
12-4-2: Designation Of Assistant Town Supervisor
12-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities Of Assistant Town Supervisor
12-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:
   A.   Required: A development review shall be completed before construction
or development begins within the community and shall be completed in
conjunction with any required building permit.
   B.   Included On Building Permits: The development review shall be included
on required building permits furnished by the town of Lingle. Factors and
elements to be considered may include, but are not limited to:
Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
(Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-4-2: DESIGNATION OF ASSISTANT TOWN SUPERVISOR:
The assistant town supervisor is hereby appointed to administer and implement
this title by completing a development review in accordance with its provisions
and in conjunction with any required building permit. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
12-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ASSISTANT TOWN SUPERVISOR:
Duties of the assistant town supervisor shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Review all building permits to determine that the development review
requirements of this title have been satisfied and to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   B.   Review all building permits to determine that permits have been
obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required.
   C.   Review all building permits to determine if the proposed development
adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the potential floodprone area.
For the purposes of this title, "adversely affects" means damage to adjacent
properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to physical changes of
the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
      1.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the building permit shall be granted
without further consideration.
      2.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then technical
justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer's certification) for
the proposed development shall be required.
      3.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this title shall apply.
   D.   Development review shall be completed based only on potential flood
hazard information available at the time of review. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
12-5-1: General Standards
12-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
If a proposed building site is located in a floodprone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
manufactured homes) shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
and capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   Water: All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   Sewers: New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   Waste Disposal: On site waste disposal systems shall be located to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage. (Ord. 260, 8-18-1999)
CHAPTER 6
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-6-1: Statutory Authorization
12-6-2: Findings Of Fact
12-6-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-6-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-6-5: Definitions
12-6-6: General Provisions:
12-6-6-1: Lands To Which This Ordinance Applies
12-6-6-2: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-6-6-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-6-6-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-6-6-5: Interpretation
12-6-6-6: Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability
12-6-6-7: Severability
12-6-6-8: Compliance
12-6-6-9: Stop Work Order
12-6-6-10: Penalties For Noncompliance
12-6-7: Administration
12-6-7-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-6-7-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-6-7-3: Requirements To Submit New Technical Data
12-6-7-4: Permit Procedures
12-6-7-5: Variance Procedures
12-6-8: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-6-8-1: General Standards
12-6-8-2: Specific Standards
12-6-8-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
12-6-8-4: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
12-6-8-5: Floodways
12-6-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   The Legislature of the State of Wyoming has in Wyoming Statutes 15-1-
103 delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Lingle Town
Council of Lingle, Wyoming, does ordain as follows:
   B.   The Town of Lingle elects to comply with the requirements of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security, and Lingle's community officials have elected to join the
program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance and
the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP, established in the
aforesaid act, provides that areas of the Town of Lingle having a special flood
hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain management measures be
applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, The Town of Lingle may elect
to administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not identified as
Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community's effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has documentation to support that
there is an inherent risk of flooding in such areas. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Lingle are subject to periodic inundation by
flood waters, which results in potential loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief; all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of the
inhabitants of Lingle.
   B.   These potential flood losses are caused by:
      1.   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are known
to cause increases in flood heights and velocities;
      2.   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable to
floods because they are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages; and
      3.   Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not account
for the increased flood risk. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community and to minimize public and private losses due
to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize damage to public infrastructure, including but not limited to
utilities, streets, and bridges that are susceptible to flooding;
   C.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
   D.   Minimize public expenditures on flood control projects;
   E.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and are generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
   F.   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first responders should
an emergency response is needed;
   G.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   H.   Promote that potential buyers are notified if properties are in a flood
area. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
To accomplish the purposes outlined in Section
12-6-3, Statement Of Purpose, this chapter applies the following methods:
   A.   Restricts or prohibits land uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
or property in times of flooding, or cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   B.   Requires that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Controls filling, grading, dredging and other developments that may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevents or regulates the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
                A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance of being equaled
                or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance flood). The terms "100-
100-YEAR FLOOD: hundred-year flood" and "1-percent-annual-chance flood" are synonymous. The term
                does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every one hundred (100)
                hundred years. Mandatory flood insurance requirements may apply.
100-YEAR        The area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the occurrence of a 1-
FLOODPLAIN:     percent-annual-chance flood.
                A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent chance of being
500-YEAR FLOOD: equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-chance flood). The
                term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every five hundred
                (500) years and mandatory flood insurance requirement generally does not apply.
500-YEAR        The area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the occurrence of a 0.2-
FLOODPLAIN:     percent-annual-chance flood.
                A structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure. Its
                use is incidental to the use of the principal structure the ownership of the
ACCESSORY       accessory structure is the same owner as of the principal structure. An accessory
STRUCTURE:      structure is a non-residential structure of low value that is used solely for the
                parking of vehicles and storage of tools, materials, or equipment. No human
                habitation is allowed within an accessory structure.
                Any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square
ADDITION:       footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the
                side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical additions added on top of a
                structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.
                Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform that
ALLUVIAL FAN    originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-velocity flows; active
FLOODING:       processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow
                paths.
                A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the
APEX:           major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding
                can occur.
APPURTENANT     See Accessory Structure.
STRUCTURE:
AREA OF FUTURE- The land area that would be inundated by the 1-percent-annual-chance (one hundred
CONDITIONS      (100)-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology.
FLOOD HAZARD:
                A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate
AREA OF SHALLOW Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
FLOODING:       depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
                where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be
                evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
                The land within a community that is most likely to be subject to severe flood-
AREA OF SPECIAL related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard
FLOOD-RELATED   Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related
EROSION HAZARD: erosion hazard area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be
                further refined.
                The land in the flood plain within a community subject to a 1-percent or greater
                chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the
AREA OF SPECIAL FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication
FLOOD HAZARD:   of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR,
                AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these
                regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with
                the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
BASE FLOOD:     The flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
                year.
                The water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event. It is the
                height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of the
BASE FLOOD      base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas.
ELEVATION       It is also the elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood
(BFE):          Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that
                indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a 1-
                percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.
                Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
BASEMENT:       sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not
                considered a basement.
                Existing flood hazard information adopted by a community and reflected on an
BEST AVAILABLE  effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary flood
DATA:           hazard information supplied by FEMA or from another source. Other sources may
                include, but are not limited to, state, other federal agencies, or local studies,
                the more restrictive of which would be reasonably used by the community.
                A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
                through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading
                forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
BREAKAWAY WALL: supporting foundation system. Any walls below the lowest floor in a building in a
                V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
                displacement, or other damage to the elevated portion of the building of the
                supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or VE Zones.
BUILDING:       See Structure.
                The artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of a stream
CHANNELIZATION: channel's slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be deemed as
                channelization.
CODE OF FEDERAL The codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal
REGULATIONS     Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
(CFR):
CONDITIONAL     FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the
LETTER OF MAP   hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result
REVISION        in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/
(CLOMR):        or the SFHA. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the
                project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
CONDITIONAL
LETTER OF MAP   FEMA's comment on a proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an
REVISION BASED  effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be
ON FILL (CLOMR- removed from the floodplain.
F):
                An under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no more
                than four (4) feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation,
CRAWLSPACE:     designed with proper openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water,
                and is not used for habitation. Reference:
                12-6-8-2, E. Crawlspace
                A facility or building where even a slight chance of flooding is too great a
CRITICAL        threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals, fire stations, police
FACILITY:       stations, schools, storage of critical records, assisted living and similar
                facilities.
                A clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some respect.
DEED            Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and conditions. For
RESTRICTION:    example, they may limit the density of buildings, dictate the types of structures
                that can be erected, or prevent buildings from being used for specific purposes or
                from being used at all.
                A building that is used solely for storage of materials or vehicle parking for up
DETACHED        to four housing occupants. If a detached garage is designed or used for habitation
GARAGE:         or conducting business, or has multiple stories, then the building is not
                considered a detached garage under the NFIP.
                Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:    limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
                paving, demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or storage either temporary
                or permanent of equipment or materials.
                A non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A,
                A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the
                ground level by means of pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls
ELEVATED        parallel to the flow of the water and adequately anchored so as not to impair the
BUILDING:       structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the
                base flood. In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C,
                X and D, an "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill
                or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the
                unimpeded movement of flood waters.
ENCLOSURE:      Enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated building. Enclosures
                below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle parking, and storage.
EROSION:        The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or other
                natural agents.
EXISTING        Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective
CONSTRUCTION:   date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
                It may also be referred to as Existing Structures.
                A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
EXISTING        for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED    (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR    streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:    completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
                adopted by a community.
EXISTING        See Existing Construction.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO AN The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
EXISTING        servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED    the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR    grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FEMA:           The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                The placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a structure,
                property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of the site,
                regardless of where the material was obtained from. The common practice of
FILL:           removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered material is not
                considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing conditions. Any
                fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area is not
                deemed as fill.
                A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
                normally dry land areas from:
                   1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                   2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
                source.
                B.    Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as
                defined in this ordinance and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the
FLOOD OR        surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of
FLOODING:       water and deposited along the path of the current.
                C.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
                water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
                exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high
                water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
                unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or
                by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as
                defined in this chapter.
FLOOD INSURANCE The document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to write flood insurance
MANUAL:         policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains definitions, policy
                rates, coverage and limitations, application and insurance policy forms.
FLOOD INSURANCE An official map of a community, on which the Administrator has delineated both the
RATE MAP        SFHAs and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
(FIRM):
FLOOD INSURANCE An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if
STUDY (FIS) OR  appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation
FLOOD ELEVATION and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
STUDY:          hazards.
FLOODPLAIN      A community issued permit or document that is used for any development that occurs
DEVELOPMENT     within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the community. It is used to address the
PERMIT:         proposed development to ensure compliance with the community's ordinance.
FLOODPLAIN OR   Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source whether or
FLOOD-PRONE     not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding).
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN      The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:     reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
                flood control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management regulations.
                Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN      special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
MANAGEMENT      erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:    describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
                provide standards for flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOOD OPENING:  An opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters to
                automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1.
                Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
                appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
                flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to
                an SFHA and to reduce the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically
FLOOD           includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These
PROTECTION      specialized, flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
SYSTEM:         engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees, both private and public, that
                have been certified by a professional engineer or firm in which the certification
                shows that the levee have met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory
                standards cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal
                Regulations (44 CFR 65.10).
                Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
                adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
                improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
FLOODPROOFING:  contents. Floodproofing can either be accomplished in the form of dry
                floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels that need
                flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures applied
                to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while
                allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
FLOODWAY:       See Regulatory Floodway.
FLOODWAY        The lines marking the limits of floodways on federal, state, and local flood plain
ENCROACHMENT    maps.
LINES:
                A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of
                flood plain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the many unknown
FREEBOARD:      factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated
                for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge
                openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
                A development that cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY    carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking facilities,
DEPENDENT USE:  port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
                passengers, and ship building and repair facilities. It does not include long-term
                storage or related manufacturing facilities.
                The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
HIGHEST         the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent grade is
ADJACENT GRADE  utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent
(HAG):          grade and the depth of the AO Zone. Reference: Section
                12-6-8-4, Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones).
                Any structure that is:
                A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
                maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
                Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
                the National Register;
                B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
                contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
                district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC        historic district;
STRUCTURE:      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
                historic reservation programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the
                Interior; or
                D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
                with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                   1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
                Interior, or
                   2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
                programs.
LETTER OF MAP   An official amendment, by letter, to an effective FIRM. A LOMA establishes a
AMENDMENT       property's location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued because a
(LOMA):         property or structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain,
                when the property or structure is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.
                FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion of the effective FIRM, or
LETTER OF MAP   Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
REVISION        implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic
(LOMR):         characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
                existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
LETTER OF MAP
REVISION BASED  FEMA's amendment, by letter, to an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or
ON FILL (LOMR-  used to elevate a property, portion of property or structure above the BFE.
F):
                A man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
LEVEE:          accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
                flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
                A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:   structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
                operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
                The lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
LOWEST ADJACENT the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the lowest
GRADE (LAG):    point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached
                garages, decks, stairs, and basement windows.
                The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
                or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
LOWEST FLOOR:   access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
                building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to
                render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
                requirements of Section 60.3.
                A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED    chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
HOME:           attached to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include
                a "recreational vehicle"; however, a manufactured home may be used for both
                residential and non-residential use.
MANUFACTURED    A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured
HOME PARK OR    home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MAP:            The FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
                For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929,
MEAN SEA LEVEL: North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which BFEs shown
                on a community's FIRM are referenced.
MIXED USE       Structures with both a business and a residential component, but where the area
STRUCTURES:     used for business is less than fifty (50) percent of the total floor area of the
                structure.
                Structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective
                date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
NEW             subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining
CONSTRUCTION:   insurance rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or
                after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever
                is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
                A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
NEW             for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED    (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR    streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:    completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
                adopted by a community.
                Formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional engineer licensed to
NO-RISE         practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
CERTIFICATIONS: performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed
                development will not result in any increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the
                community during the occurrence of a base flood event.
PHYSICAL MAP    FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels are physically revised and
REVISION (PMR): republished.
                A vehicle which is:
                A.   Built on a single chassis;
                B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL    horizontal projection;
VEHICLE:        C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
                and
                D.   Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary
                living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY      The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:       be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
                the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
RIVERINE:       Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
                brook, creek, etcetera, which can be intermittent or perennial.
                The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, which
                provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that the
SECTION 1316:   Administrator finds has been declared by a duly constituted State or local
                authority to be in violation of State or local floodplain management regulations.
                Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a property owner, and remains with the
                property even after a change of ownership.
SPECIAL FLOOD   See Area of Special Flood Hazard.
HAZARD AREA:
                Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
                issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
START OF        rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
CONSTRUCTION    and eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
(for other than placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
new             of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or
construction or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home
substantial     on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
improvements    clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
under the       and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
Coastal Barrier or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
Resources Act   installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
(Pub. L. 97-    occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
348)):          improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
                wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that
                alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
                For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, culvert, bridge,
                dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as
                a manufactured home. Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
                A.   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof,
                which is affixed to a permanent site;
                B.   A manufactured home ("a manufactured home," also known as a mobile home, is a
STRUCTURE:      structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more
                sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
                C.   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent
                foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain management and
                building ordinances or laws.
                For insurance purposes, "structure" does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park
                trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph C. of this
                definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
SUBSTANTIAL     Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:         structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of
                the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
                A.   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
                structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market
                value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This
                term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of
                the actual repair work performed.
SUBSTANTIAL     B.   The term does not, however, include:
IMPROVEMENT:       1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations
                of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been
                identified by the local code enforcement official and are the minimum necessary to
                assure safe living conditions; or
                   2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", if the alteration will not
                preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
                A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
VARIANCE:       regulation. Reference: Section
                12-6-7-5, Variance Procedures.
                The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
                community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:      without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
                compliance required in Sections 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)
                (2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
                documentation is provided.
                The height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, (or
WATER SURFACE   other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies,
ELEVATION:      such as the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event, in the flood plains of coastal or
                riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE:    The channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream, river,
                ditch or other similar feature. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
 
12-6-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
12-6-6-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES:
The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by
FEMA. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Goshen County,
dated June 1, 2022e FIS), accompanying FIRMs, and any revisions thereto are
hereby automatically adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 357, 3-
23-2022)
12-6-6-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY:
   A.   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   B.   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of the ordinance shall
not be affected. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-8: COMPLIANCE:
No structures or developments including buildings, recreation vehicles, or
manufactured homes or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other
applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the Lingle Town Council
from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violations. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-6-9: STOP WORK ORDER:
   A.   Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other community
official discovers any work or activity regulated by this chapter being
performed in a manner contrary to the provision of this chapter, the floodplain
administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order.
   B.   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or to the person
doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
   C.   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to penalties as prescribed by local or state law including but not limited to
the penalties outlined in Section
12-6-6-10, Penalties For Noncompliance.
12-6-6-10: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP
regulation, to qualify for the sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a
community must adopt floodplain management regulations that meet or exceed the
minimum standards of Section 60. "These regulations must include effective
enforcement provisions." In accordance with Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44, Chapter
1, of the NFIP regulations, "These regulations must be legally-enforceable,
applied uniformly throughout the community to all privately and publicly owned
land within flood-prone (i.e. mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the
community must provide that the regulations take precedence over less
restrictive conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes."
   B.   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this ordinance
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation assessed
daily, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Lingle from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord.
357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-7: ADMINISTRATION:
12-6-7-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Lingle Town Supervisor is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance and other appropriate
sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain
management. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-7-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when
possible and increase the community's resistance to future disasters.
   B.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this ordinance, including the actual elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved
structures and any floodproofing certificates, including the data supporting
such certificates.
   C.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and
locate the boundaries of the SFHAs to which this ordinance applies, including,
but not limited to, the FIRM.
   D.   Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed building
site, including sites designed for the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   E.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this ordinance.
   F.   Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state, or local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the
Endangered Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is The Wyoming Office of Homeland Security, prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to FEMA.
   I.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
   J.   When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source including data
provided by the applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this
ordinance.
   K.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM,
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1.00*
feet at any point within the community unless the community has adopted higher
standard options.
   L.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE,
and AH on the community's FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than 1.00* foot, provided that the community first meets
the requirements of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through
FEMA's CLOMR process.
   M.   If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse
effect on the BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable structures,
technical justification for the proposed development shall be submitted and the
community may require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit
approval or as a requirement of the permit. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-7-3: REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA:
   A.   The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a
LOMR within six (6) months of project completion when an applicant had obtained
a CLOMR from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modified
floodplain boundaries, or modified BFE.
   B.   The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing
technical data to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any
processing or application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is
responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all
necessary data to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the
CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
   C.   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the
Community Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirements of this ordinance and all applicable state federal, and local
laws. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-7-4: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to:
      1.   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations.
      2.   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
      3.   Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.
      4.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved
structures, if applicable;
      5.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any
nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.
      6.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of this ordinance and the NFIP Regulations.
      7.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if
applicable.
      8.   At the community's discretion, the community may charge a fee for
issuance of floodplain development permits.
      9.   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated
documents shall become property of the community and a permanent record.
   B.   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems.
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site.
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-7-5: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Appeal Board or Variance Board, as established by the community,
shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements
of this ordinance after a floodplain development permit has been denied.
      1.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      2.   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in
the enforcement of administration of this ordinance.
      3.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to FEMA and the State
Coordinating Agency upon issuing a variance.
      4.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section 12-6-7-5, Variance
Procedures have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
ordinance, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
      6.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      7.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure. The term ''substantial improvement'' does not include
any alteration of a structure or facility listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   B.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause.
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, conflict with existing local laws or ordinances, considers the need of
ingress and egress during times of floods, and does not jeopardize first
responders' health and welfare.
      2.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the BFE, and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
      3.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in Section 12-6-7-5, Variance Procedures
are met; and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-8: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
12-6-8-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are
required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Substantial Improvement: Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a building or structure, if the
cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 50 percent, unless a
higher standard option is selected below, of the market value of the structure
only (not of the structure and land value combined) before the improvement or
repair is started then the work shall be considered as substantial improvement.
If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. For
Substantial Damage, refer to Subsection C. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. The term does
not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   C.   Substantial Damage: Substantial damage means damage of any origin
sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its
pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market
value of the structure only, unless a higher standard option is selected,
before the damage occurred. This term also applies to structures which have
incurred any damage that equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the
structure's market value regardless of the actual repair work performed. When a
structure or building has been determined as substantially damaged, any work or
repair on said structure or building will be considered as substantial
improvement and will be required to meet the development requirements set forth
within this ordinance for substantial improvement.
   D.   Substantial Improvement And Substantial Damage Determination: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement
of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the applicable community officials and staff, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
and before any repairs are made.
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure.
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the Subsection B. Substantial Improvement.
      4.   Utilize FEMA's Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference
when making any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial
Damage.
      5.   The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work
that is proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued.
Therefore, the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all
costs of all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit.
      6.   Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood, this ordinance is required. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-8-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to the BFE, unless a freeboard option is noted below. If a freeboard
option is noted, new construction and substantial improvement shall have the
lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the freeboard elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit
certified elevations to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
ordinance are satisfied.
      1.   Residential Construction Freeboard Higher Standard Option: The Town
of Lingle has elected to adopt a freeboard option for new construction and
substantial improvement of any residential structure. The freeboard option
requires that lowest floor elevation to be built above the BFE by the height
selected. The Town of Lingle has elected a:
         a.   One and a half (1.5) foot of freeboard meaning the lowest floor
must be built One and a half (1.5) feet above the BFE.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the base
flood level, unless a freeboard option is noted below, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review
structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
certification that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building changes in
the future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot
be used when determining compliance of the structure to the residential
construction of this ordinance, Subsection A. Residential Construction. As
such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be
required to be brought into compliance with the residential construction
requirements of this ordinance.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are to be used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement, and are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
The development and construction of the structure must conform with the
provision in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins 1
and 2. Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed engineer
or architect is required if the structure's lowest floor is built below the
BFE.
   D.   Crawlspace: New construction and substantial improvements built on a
crawlspace or sub-grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the
development is designed and meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA's
Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not limited to the
following:
      1.   The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed
and adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of
the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is
not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than five (5) feet per
second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such
as a registered architect or professional engineer.
      2.   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no
more than one (1) foot above the LAG.
      3.   The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow
equalization of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. To achieve this, a minimum of one (1) square inch of flood opening
is required per 1 square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.
      4.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in
particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
      5.   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above the BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within
the system components during flood conditions.
      6.   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two (2) feet below the LAG.
      7.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest
interior grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the
next higher floor cannot exceed four (4) feet at any point.
      8.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained
within a reasonable time after a flood event.
      9.   Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation at or above the LAG.
   E.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;) in a new manufactured home
park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the BFE, unless a higher standard
option was selected, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      3.   In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to
be placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
elevated so that the lowest floor is at or above the BFE, unless a higher
standard option was selected; or the chassis is supported by reinforced piers
no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade and securely
anchored.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days unless the community has elected a higher standard option and
be fully licensed and ready for highway use;
         a.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      2.   Or meet the permit requirements of Section
12-6-7-4, Permit Procedures, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" of this section. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-8-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this
ordinance.
   B.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   C.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development
Permit requirements of this ordinance.
   D.   BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, or
whichever is lesser.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   F.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-8-4: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the SFHAs established in Section 12-6-6-1, Lands To Which This
Ordinance Applies, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3)
feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is
specified). If the community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest
floor elevation must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet
if no depth number is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected
below.
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures:
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is
specified). If the community has elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest
floor elevation must be elevated above the highest adjacent grade above the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet
if no depth number is specified) plus the freeboard height option selected
below; or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
      3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
Section.
      4.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 357, 3-23-2022)
12-6-8-5: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of flood waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood
level more than one (1) foot.
   B.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase greater than 0.00 feet,
unless higher standard option selected, in flood levels within the community
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   C.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Section
12-6-8 in this chapter.
   D.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community
first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA. (Ord.
357, 3-23-2022)
