ROCHESTER, WI
MUNICIPAL CODE
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-7, passed 6-10-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1 GENERAL GOVERNMENT
1-1. ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The following Village officials shall be elected as follows:
   A.   Village President for a term of two years elected in odd numbered
years.
   B.   Six Trustees. In the Spring election of 2009, there shall be elected at
large six Trustees. The three Trustees receiving the greatest number of votes
in the election shall hold their offices for a term of two years. The remaining
three Trustees shall hold their offices for a term of one year. Beginning with
the annual Spring election in 2010, all newly elected Trustees shall hold their
offices for a term of two years.
   C.   Candidates shall file nomination papers and there shall be a non-
partisan primary whenever three or more candidates file nomination papers for a
single office pursuant to Wis. Stats. ss. 8.05(4), 8.05(5), and 8.11(1m)(a) and
(b).
1-2. APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   A.   The Village Board may modify the term of office, method of appointment,
method of removal, or other provisions of any appointed public official by
ordinance or contract.
   B.   Appointed Officials and Terms.
   Except as set forth in section
1-2.A, the appointed officials of the Village and their terms shall be the
following:
Official How Appointed Term
Official                 How Appointed                     Term
Clerk                    Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Treasurer                Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Attorney                 Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Assessor                 Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Coordinator of Emergency Village President, subject to     3 years
Management               confirmation by the Village Board
Administrator            2/3 Majority of the Village Board Indefinite
                         members present
Election Officials       Village President, subject to     2 years
                         confirmation by the Village Board
Building Inspector       Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Electrical Inspector     Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Plumbing Inspector       Majority of the Village Board     Indefinite
Zoning Administrator     Village President, subject to     2 years
                         confirmation by the Village Board
Public Works Manager     Village President, subject to     Indefinite
                         confirmation by the Village Board
Village Engineer         Village Board                     Indefinite
Health Officer           Board of Health                   See ss. 1.18 and
                                                           1-231
Humane Officer           Majority of the Village Board     2 years
                                                          
 
1 Amended 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 2023-12, passed 10-23-2023)
 
1-3. OATH.
   Village officials shall take and file the official oath as required by Wis.
Stat. s. 19.01.
1-4. REMOVALS.
   A.   Elected officials may be removed by the Village Board as provided in
Wis. Stat. s. 17.13(2), or by the judge of the circuit court, for cause,
pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss. 17.13(3) and 17.16.
   B.   Appointed officials may be removed as provided in Wis. Stat. ss. 17.13
(1), 17.13(3), and 17.16.
1-5. VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in elective or appointive offices are caused as provided in Wis.
Stat. ss. 17.03, 17.035, and 61.27, and shall be filled as provided in Wis.
Stat. ss. 17.24 and 61.27.
1-6. SALARIES; PER DIEM.
   A.   Salaries and/or per diem (meeting pay) of elected and appointed
officials including board and commission members, shall be set by the Village
Board from time to time, subject to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0505.
   B.   The Village Board shall establish and provide for the compensation (per
diem/meeting pay) of those boards and commissions necessary to effectively
govern the Village, as specifically set forth in the various chapters of this
code, including, but not limited to, the Board of Review, the Library Board,
the Plan Commission, and the Board of Appeals
   C.   Meeting pay (per diem) for committee member attendance at committee
meetings shall be set by the Village Board from time to time. Meeting pay shall
be allowed for Board Member attendance at Western Racine County Sewerage
District Meetings, unless the Board Member is also a member of the Sewerage
District Board.
   D.   All meetings attended by Board Members or committee members outside of
the Village shall qualify for mileage reimbursement, at the then-current
Internal Revenue Service allowed amount, along with meeting pay.
   E.   Maintenance pay. Village Board members who do Village maintenance work
or other duties shall be paid an hourly rate as set by the Village Board.
1-7. VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   A.   The Village President shall have the powers and duties as specified in
Wis. Stat. s. 61.24, along with such additional powers as may be delegated from
time to time by the Village Board. The Village President shall:
      1.   Appoint a chairperson from among the members of the Plan Commission.
The appointment shall be subject to confirmation by the Village Board.
      2.   Make necessary appointments to the Village Board Standing Committees
and submit the appointments to the Village Board for confirmation.
      3.   Make appointments of Village officers as provided by this Code or by
applicable statute and submit said appointments to the Village Board for
confirmation where necessary.
   B.   The Village President and Trustees shall collectively constitute the
Village Board and shall have the authority and power of the Village not
specifically given another body or officer. The Village Board shall have the
powers enumerated in Wis. Stat. s. 61.34 and other applicable sections of the
statutes and shall act to manage and control Village interests, including its
commercial benefit, and for the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   C.   The Village Board shall establish those boards, commissions, and
committees necessary to effectively govern the Village, as specifically set
forth by statute and in the various chapters of this Code, all of which shall
be organized pursuant to various controlling Wisconsin Statutes and the
provisions of this Code.
1-7.5.    VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   A.   Appointment, Term of Office, and Removal.
      1.   The term of such appointment shall be for two years, but such term
may be renewed on an annual basis thereafter upon receipt of a recommendation
from the Finance Committee. The position of Village Administrator is not
mandated, but is discretionary within the purview of the Village Board, so that
appointments thereto and vacancies therein are determined by the Village Board
from time to time, giving consideration to the needs of the Village in its
management and operation. When the position is unfilled it shall not cause a
vacancy as contemplated by Wis. Stat. s. 17.24.
      2.   The Village Administrator shall hold office for an indefinite term
subject to removal by simple majority vote of the Village Board pursuant to
Section 17.13(1) of the Wisconsin Statutes.
      3.   To fill the position, the Finance Committee and Village President
shall recommend the appointment of a Village Administrator to the Village
Board. Upon receipt of both recommendations in favor of the appointment, the
Village Administrator shall be appointed by a two-thirds vote of the quorum of
the Village Board present.
      4.   The Village Administrator is expected to provide 60 days written
notice to the Village President and Village Board of the intent to resign from
the position.
      5.   The position of Village Administrator may be held by the same
individual as the position of Village Treasurer, if so appointed by the Village
Board.
   B.   Orientation Period.
      1.   The orientation period for the position of Village Administrator
shall be the first twelve (12) months following the date of appointment. During
this time period, the Village Administrator will be afforded an opportunity to
become acquainted with Village procedures and policies. Quarterly evaluations
may be completed by the Village President and the Village Board with a final
evaluation at the end of the orientation period.
   C.   Position Expectations.
      1.   The Village Administrator, subject to the limitations and further
expectations defined in resolutions, policies and ordinances of the Village and
Wisconsin State Statutes, shall be responsible to and under the general
supervision of the Village President and Village Board.
      2.   The Village Administrator shall comply with all Village ordinances,
rules, regulations and policies. The Village Administrator shall comply with
all lawful directives of the Village President and the Village Board and
perform the duties and responsibilities contained in the job description for
the position.
      3.   The Village Administrator shall abide by the requirements set forth
in the Code of Ethics for Local Government Officials and Employees set forth in
section 19.59 of the Wisconsin Statutes.
   D.   Annual Review.
      1.   The Finance Committee shall review the performance of the
Administrator each year in the month of June or as soon thereafter as
reasonably practicable and shall report its recommendations to the Village
Board.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 12-10-2018)
1-8. VILLAGE CLERK AND VILLAGE TREASURER.
   A.   Village Clerk. The Village elects not to be governed by the provisions
of Wis. Stat. s. 61.19, providing for the election of a Clerk. The Village
Clerk shall have all of the powers and duties set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 61.25
and such further duties as shall be assigned by the Village Board from time to
time. Further, the Clerk shall be responsible for preparing and preserving the
official records of the Village, for the issuance of licenses and permits,
except where otherwise stated herein, and for the supervision of Village
election activities.
   B.   Village Treasurer. The Village elects not to be governed by the
provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 61.19, providing for the election of a Treasurer.
The Village Treasurer shall have all of the powers and duties set forth in Wis.
Stat. s. 61.26 and such further duties as shall be assigned by the Village
Board from time to time. Further, the Treasurer shall be responsible for
preparing and preserving the financial records of the Village, and for the
collection and disbursement of Village funds.
   C.   Annual audits shall be made of the records and accounts of the Village
Treasurer by a certified public accountant designated by the Village Board.
Reports as required by Wis. Stat. s. 73.10 shall be submitted by the Treasurer.
   D.   The positions of Village Clerk and Village Treasurer may be held by the
same individual, in which case the Village Board shall determine a salary for
the combined position.
1-9. VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   A.   The Village Attorney shall be one or more attorneys licensed to
practice law in the State of Wisconsin. The Village Board may contract with any
such attorney or law firm to serve in the capacity of Village Attorney, and may
designate special counsel where necessary due to the disqualification of the
Village Attorney or for any reason determined appropriate by the Village Board.
   B.   The duties of the Village Attorney shall be to advise the Village Board
in those matters requiring legal opinion, to draft ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations as from time to time may be required, and to represent the Village
in legal proceedings in which it is a party, as which may from time to time be
required.
   C.   Any person or firm appointed to the office of Village Attorney shall
serve at the pleasure of the Village Board.
1-10. VILLAGE ASSESSOR.
   A.   The Village elects not to be governed by the provisions of Wis. Stat.
s. 61.19 providing for the election of an Assessor. The Village Assessor shall
be qualified pursuant to, and have the duties designated by, Wis. Stat. s.
61.27 and/or Wis. Stat. s. 61.197(1)(f).
   B.   Any person or firm appointed to the office of Village Assessor shall
serve at the pleasure of the Village Board.
1-11. COORDINATOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Coordinator of Emergency Management shall have the duties set forth in
Chapter 4 of this Municipal Code.
1-12. HUMANE OFFICER.
   A.   The Village Board may appoint one or more qualified Humane Officers.
Any Humane Officer so appointed must be certified in accordance with Wis. Stat.
s. 173.05, and shall have the powers and responsibilities provided for
throughout Wis. Stat. ch. 173.
   B.   Abatement orders issued under Wis. Stat. s. 173.11 by a Village of
Rochester Humane Officer may be modified or withdrawn by the Village Board.
   C.   The Village Board may choose not to appoint a Village Humane Officer,
and instead designate the Racine County Humane Officer, a Racine County
employee, to function in this capacity. The Racine County Humane Officer shall
then have jurisdiction throughout the Village per Wis. Stat. s. 173.03(3).
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 2023-12, passed 10-23-2023)
1-13. ELECTION OFFICIALS; APPOINTMENT AND HOURS.
   There shall be five election inspectors at each poll at each election,
provided, however, that additional election inspectors may be appointed to
serve at any poll where election day registration makes it necessary. Pursuant
to Wis. Stat. s. 7.30(1), the Village of Rochester shall allow for the
selection of two or more sets of officials to work at different times on
election day and permits the Clerk or his/her designee to establish different
working hours for different officials assigned at the same polling place.
1-14. BUILDING, PLUMBING, AND ELECTRICAL INSPECTORS.
   A.   The Village Board may elect to have the functions of the Building,
Plumbing and Electrical Inspectors carried out through contracted services of
any qualified person, firm or corporation. In the event such services are
provided by contract, the term of office shall be as provided in the contract.
   B.   The duties of the Village Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector and
Electrical Inspector shall be set forth in Chapter 11 of this Municipal Code,
the Building, Plumbing, Electrical and Mechanical Code. Building, Plumbing,
Electrical and HVAC Permits shall be on file at the Village Hall within three
working days of issuance.
1-15. ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties of the Village Zoning Administrator are to oversee compliance
with
Chapter 35, Planning and Zoning and the other zoning chapters of this Municipal
Code, and to issue such permits as are required under the zoning chapters. The
Zoning Administrator shall also perform such other reviews as are necessary
under other provisions of this Municipal Code and as directed by the Village
Board. Permits issued shall be on file at the Village Hall within three working
days of issuance.
1-16. PUBLIC WORKS MANAGER.
   A.   A Public Works Manager may be appointed upon resolution of the Village
Board on the basis of merit, training, experience, administrative ability,
efficiency and general qualifications and fitness for performing the duties of
the position.
   B.   Duties and Powers. The Public Works Manager shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
      1.   The Public Works Manager shall have general charge and supervision
of all public works in the Village.
      2.   The Public Works Manager shall be responsible for the maintenance,
repair and construction of streets, alleys, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
bridges, street signs, storm sewer systems, sanitary sewer systems, Village
buildings and structures and all machinery, equipment and property used in any
activity under his control.
      3.   The Public Works Manager shall have charge of all public services,
including garbage and refuse collection and disposal, snow and ice removal,
street cleaning and flushing, and mosquito and rodent control.
      4.   The Public Works Manager shall be appointed as, and perform the
duties of, the Weed Commissioner as part of his or her regular duties.
      5.   The Public Works Manager shall perform such other activities and
duties as are imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Village Board,
his or her job description or employment contract.
1-17. VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   A.   The Village Engineer shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. In lieu
of appointing a person to the position of Engineer, the Village Board may
engage an engineering firm, and if such is the case, the engineering firm shall
perform the duties required of the Engineer throughout this Code, except where
specifically excepted. In the event that a firm is engaged, the term of office
shall be the term of the contract.
   B.   Duties. When authorized by the Village Board, the Village Engineer
shall have the following duties:
      1.   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for the preparation of
plans and specifications for Village public improvements and for such field
survey and construction inspection work as may be required during the course of
Village public improvement projects.
      2.   The Village Engineer shall advise the Village Board and Public Works
Manager in engineering and financial planning for public improvement programs.
      3.   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for the preparation and
maintenance of all official Village maps and engineering records.
1-18. HEALTH OFFICER. 1
   The Health Officer shall be appointed by the Board of Health as set forth in
s.
1-23. The Health Officer shall have the powers and perform the duties assigned
to the Health Officer by this Municipal Code, any intermunicipal agreement to
which the Village is a party, and State Statutes.
 
Notes
1 2 Amended 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
1-19. PLAN COMMISSION.
   A.   Appointment. The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, who
shall be appointed by the Village President as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 62.23
(1), and confirmed by the Village Board. The Village President shall designate
the Chair of the Plan Commission, with the confirmation of the Village Board.
The Commission shall always have at least three citizen members who are not
Village officials.
      1.   Alternate Members. In the event that the first alternate member
position is vacant, the second alternate member shall immediately fill that
vacancy, and shall serve the remainder of the term of the vacant seat. If there
are any appointed alternates beyond the second, each one shall likewise move up
one position in priority, serving the remainder of the term of the vacant seat.
   B.   Term of Office.
      1.   An equal number of the initial members of the Commission shall hold
office for terms of 1, 2 and 3 years as determined by the Village President by
certification to the Village Board. Terms shall be for staggered three-year
periods. Of those first appointed, two shall serve for one year, two for two
years, and three for three years. The term of office of each member shall
terminate on May 1 of the applicable year. All members of the Commission shall
be eligible for reappointment upon expiration of their respective terms. All
members shall continue to serve until their successors are duly appointed and
qualified.
      2.   Prior to April 1 of each year, the Village President shall appoint a
replacement for each commissioner whose term expires on the following May 1 and
submit the appointments to the Village Board for confirmation. The procedure
for appointments provided in this paragraph shall be subject to modification by
an ordinance enacted by the Village Board at any time, provided that no such
ordinance shall affect the term of any member then holding office.
   C.   Powers and Duties.
      1.   Commission Organization. The Plan Commission shall hold an
organizational meeting as soon as practicable after each annual appointment on
the call of the Chairperson and shall adopt within a reasonable time thereafter
rules of internal operating procedure in compliance with all applicable
statutes and provisions of Chapter 15, Planning and Zoning.
      2.   The Plan Commission shall have the powers and duties set forth in
Wis. Stat. s. 62.23 and such other powers and duties as set forth in this
Municipal Code and in state statutes.
   D.   Alternate Members. Alternate members to the Village of Rochester Plan
Commission may be appointed and may serve as follows. Alternate members shall
be Village residents, and may include public officers and public employees. One
alternate member shall be appointed annually by the Village President, subject
to the confirmation of the Village Board, for a term of two years, provided
that initially two alternate members shall be appointed for terms of one and
two years, respectively. At the time of their appointment, each alternate
member shall be designated as either first or second alternate, to establish
the priority of all alternate members, and this priority may be revised
annually by the Village President subject to the confirmation of the Village
Board. The first alternate member shall act with full power when one member is
absent, refuses, or is otherwise unavailable to act. The second alternate
member shall act with full power when two members (or one member and the first
alternate member) are absent, refuse, or are otherwise unavailable to act.
Additionally, the Village of Rochester Village President, subject to
confirmation of the Village Board, may appoint as many alternates as are
necessary to establish a quorum for particular matters.
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 2024-2, passed 1-22-2024)
1-20. BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A.   Members.
      1.   The Board of Appeals shall consist of five citizens of the Village,
not more than one of whom may be a member of the Village Board.
      2.   In addition to the regular members, there shall be two alternate
citizen members, designated as the first and second alternate at the time of
appointment, who shall act with full power only when a member of the Board is
absent or refuses to vote because of a conflict of interest as provided in Wis.
Stat. s. 62.23(7)(e).
   B.   Appointment and Term. Members and alternate members of the Board of
Appeals shall be appointed by the Village President for a term of three years,
subject to confirmation by the Village Board.
   C.   Powers and Duties. The Board of Appeals shall have the powers and
duties described in the Village of Rochester Municipal Code and the Wisconsin
Statutes.
1-21. BOARD OF REVIEW.
   A.   Members; Appointment.
      1.   The Board of Review shall consist of the Village President, the
Village Clerk and three Village residents, which may include public officers
and public employees. The Village President shall appoint the three additional
members to serve on the Board of Review, subject to confirmation by the Village
Board.
      2.   No Board of Review may be constituted unless it includes at least
one voting member who, within two years of the Board's first meeting, has
attended a training session as required by Wis. Stat. s. 70.46(4) and unless
that member is the Village President or the President’s designee. The Village
Clerk shall provide an affidavit to the Wisconsin Department of Revenue stating
that the requirement of that statute has been fulfilled.
   B.   Term. The members appointed hereunder shall serve as members of the
Board of Review for a term of one year.
   C.   Powers and Duties.
      1.   The proceedings of the Board of Review shall be governed by the
provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 70.47.
      2.   The Board of Review shall meet during the seven-day period beginning
with the second Monday of May. If the assessment roll is not complete, the
Board may adjourn as is necessary to complete the roll. Notice of the meeting
shall be posted on the meeting room door advising as to when the Board shall
reconvene.
1-22. LIBRARY BOARD.
   A.   Members; Appointment and Term. The Library Board shall consist of seven
members appointed for three year terms pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 43.54. The
members shall be appointed by the Village President, with the approval of the
Village Board. Up to five additional members may be appointed by Racine County
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 43.60.
   B.   Powers and Duties. The Library Board shall have the powers and duties
set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 43.58.
1-23. BOARD OF HEALTH.  3
   A.   The Village may fulfill its duties of enforcement of state laws and
policies and of this Code regarding public health by entering into an
intergovernmental agreement for the provision of services consistent with Wis.
Stat. s. 251.02(3r), and may appoint representatives to a Board of Health
established thereunder. In the event that the Village does not participate in a
multiple municipal local health department pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 251.02
(3r), the Village Board shall continue and establish a local health department
as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 251.02(3m), and shall act as the Board of Health
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 251.03(4m), shall elect a chairperson and a clerk
from among its members, and shall have all the duties and powers delegated the
Board of Health by this Code and state statutes. The Village Board may enter
into all contracts and make such expenditures as are necessary to fulfill its
duties hereunder.
   B.    Duties. The Board of Health that the Village is a member of, or which
is established hereunder, shall assume the general administration of health and
sanitation laws and regulations in the Village, supervise the work of the
Health Officer and attend to the administration and enforcement of the health
laws of the state and the rules and regulations prescribed by the State
Department of Health Services and the ordinances of the Village.
   C.   Powers. The Board of Health shall take such measures and make such
rules and regulations as are necessary and effectual for preserving and
promoting the public health in the Village.
   D.   The Board of Health shall appoint a local health officer who shall meet
the qualifications set forth in Wis. Stat. ss. 251.06.
 
Notes
3 3 Adopted 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
1-24. COMMITTEES.
   A.   Committees, Number of Members, Appointment and Terms.
There shall be five standing committees and one ad hoc committee to assist the
Village Board, which committees shall be authorized to meet at the Village Hall
upon due public notice. The number of members and terms of committee members
shall be as set forth below:
COMMITTEE NAME NUMBER OF MEMBERS* TERM**
COMMITTEE NAME       NUMBER OF MEMBERS*    TERM**
                     Board Citizen
Public Works         3+    (As Applicable) 1 yr
Finance              3+    (As Applicable) 1 yr.
Building             3+    0               1 yr.
Ordinance            3+    (As Applicable) 1yr.
Ad Hoc               3+    (As Applicable) ***
Emergency Management All   0               **
 
*   The number of members, both Board and Citizen, shall be assigned by the
Board based upon the purpose of the committee.
**   All Committee members who are also Board members shall be appointed at the
first general Village Board meeting in May of each successive year, or, in the
event of a resignation, as soon after the resignation as possible.
***    Until the committee has submitted its recommendation to the Board, or
until the Board dissolves the committee, whichever comes first.
   B.   Public Works. This Committee shall investigate, consider, report on,
and recommend action on matters pertaining to the following functions:
      1.   Installation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of culverts,
sidewalks, storm and sanitary sewers, roads and streets, and trimming of trees
in rights of way.
      2.   Investigation of all potential problems concerning roads, streets
and sewers located within the Village limits and report on or recommend to the
Village Board thereon, and further, to carry out directives of the Board
thereon.
      3.   A designated member of this committee will attend all meetings of
the Western Racine County Sewerage District and report to the Village Board
thereon. This member shall act as a representative of the Village at such
meetings.
      4.   Maintenance of public areas within the Village limits, such as
rights of way.
      5.   Maintenance of Village Parks.
      6.   Maintenance and improvement of the conditions of waterways flowing
through the Village.
      7.   Representation of the Village in matters concerning the quality of
the waterways located within the Village limits.
      8.   Planting of trees and plants located on public property within the
Village limits.
      9.   Act upon all other matters as directed by the Village Board.
   C.   Finance Committee. This Committee shall assist the Village Treasurer in
his or her responsibility for the management of Village Funds and assets,
including investment and disbursement in the best interest of the Village,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Review and recommendation to the Board of payments of invoices
presented to the Village.
      2.   Review and recommendation to the Board of investment of funds not
immediately needed in accordance with Wis. Stat. s. 66.0603(1m).
      3.   Formulation and recommendation of the Village Budget to the Board.
      4.   Semi-Annual review of performance as compared to budget forecast,
with report of findings to the Board.
   D.   Building Committee. This Committee will investigate, consider, report
on, or recommend action on matters pertaining to the construction, maintenance,
repair or replacement of all buildings in which the Village has a proprietary
interest. This will include but not be limited to the Library, Village Hall,
and Fire Department Buildings, and to carry out directives of the Board on such
recommendations. This committee shall be comprised of Village Board members.
   E.   Ordinance Committee. The duties of this committee shall be:
      1.   Formulation and recommendation to the Village Board for enactment,
modification or repeal of ordinances.
      2.   Interpretation of existing ordinances, with recommendations of legal
counsel, to the Board.
   F.   Ad Hoc Committee. The duties of this Committee shall be to investigate,
recommend and, upon the Village Board approval, act upon those matters assigned
to the Committee by the Village Board.
   G.   Emergency Management Committee. See Chapter 4 of this Municipal Code.
1-25. PUBLIC RECORDS.
   A.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated. Any term not defined herein shall be defined as set
forth in Wis. Stat. s. 19.32.
   "Authority" means any of the following Village entities having custody of a
Village record: an officer, elected official, agency, board, commission,
committee, council, department or public body corporate or politic created by
constitution, law, ordinance, rule or order; or a formally constituted sub-unit
of the foregoing.
   "Custodian" means that officer, department head, division head, or employee
of the Village designated under subsection C. or otherwise responsible by law
to keep and preserve any Village records or file, deposit or keep such records
in his or her office, or who is lawfully in possession or entitled to
possession of such public records and who is required by this section to
respond to requests for access to such records.
   "Record" means any material on which written, drawn, printed, spoken, visual
or electromagnetic information is recorded or preserved, regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which has been created or is being kept by an
authority. "Record" includes, but is not limited to, handwritten, typed or
printed pages, maps, charts, photographs, films, recordings, tapes (including
computer tapes), computer printouts and optical disks. "Record" does not
include drafts, notes, preliminary computations and like materials prepared for
the originator's personal use or prepared by the originator in the name of a
person for whom the originator is working; materials which are purely the
personal property of the custodian and have no relation to his or her office;
materials to which access is limited by copyright, patent or bequest; and
published materials in the possession of an authority other than a public
library which are available for sale, or which are available for inspection at
a public library.
   B.   Duty to Maintain Records.
      1.   Except as provided under subsection G., each officer and employee of
the Village shall safely keep and preserve all records received from his or her
predecessor or other persons and required by law to be filed, deposited or kept
in his or her office or which are in the lawful possession or control of the
officer or employee or his or her deputies, or to the possession or control of
which he or she or they may be lawfully entitled as such officers and
employees.
      2.   Upon the expiration of an officer's term of office or an employee's
term of employment, or whenever the office or position of employment becomes
vacant, each such officer or employee shall deliver to his or her successor all
records then in his or her custody and the successor shall receipt therefor to
the officer or employee, who shall file said receipt with the Village Clerk. If
a vacancy occurs before a successor is selected or qualified, such records
shall be delivered to and receipted for by the Clerk, on behalf of the
successor, to be delivered to such successor upon the latter's receipt.
   C.   Legal Custodian(s).
      1.   Elected officials are the legal custodians of their records and the
records of their offices.
      2.   The Village Clerk, or in his or her absence or disability, or in
case of vacancy, the deputy clerk, is hereby designated the legal custodian of
all Village records, including those of all committees, commissions, boards, or
other authorities created by ordinance or resolution of the Village Board,
except as otherwise set forth in this section.
      3.   The following persons are designated the legal custodians of the
Village records under their custody and control:
         a.   Village Assessor.
         b.   Village Zoning Administrator.
         c.   The highest ranking officer of a law enforcement agency with
which the Village of Rochester contracts for police protective services
pursuant to Chapter 2 of this Municipal Code.
      4.   Each legal custodian shall name a person to act as legal custodian
in his or her absence or in the absence of his or her designee.
      5.   The legal custodian shall have full legal power to render decisions
and to carry out the duties of an authority under Wis. Stat. ch. 19, subch. II,
and this section. The designation of a legal custodian does not affect the
powers and duties of an authority under this section.
   D.   Public Access to Records.
      1.   Except as provided in subsection G., any person has a right to
inspect a record and to make or receive a copy of any record as provided in
Wis. Stat. s. 19.35(1).
      2.   The public may obtain information and access to records in the
custody of the Village Clerk, make requests for records, or obtain copies of
records during all regular office hours at the Rochester Village Hall.
      3.   In the event that a record not under the custody and control of the
Village Clerk is requested, the Clerk shall receive the request and forward it
to the appropriate custodian.
      4.   The Village Clerk or the appropriate custodian will respond to
records requests as soon as practicable and without delay by either filling the
request or notifying the requester of the determination to deny the request in
whole or in part and the reasons therefor.
         a.   Each authority that maintains regular office hours at the
location where the records are kept shall permit access to the records at all
times during those office hours, unless specifically authorized by law.
         b.   Each authority that does not maintain office hours at the
location where records in the custody of the authority are kept shall permit
access to its records upon at least 48 hours written or oral notice of intent
to inspect or copy a record, or establish a period of at least two consecutive
hours per week during which access to the records is permitted, and in such
case may require 24 hours advance written or oral notice of intent to inspect
or copy a record.
      5.   A requester shall be permitted to use facilities comparable to those
available to Village employees to inspect, copy or abstract a record, provided,
however, that charges for the use of the facilities may apply as set forth in
subsection 7.
      6.   The legal custodian may require supervision during inspection or may
impose other reasonable restrictions on the manner of access to an original
record if the record is irreplaceable or easily damaged.
      7.   A requester shall be charged a fee to defray the cost of locating
and copying records in an amount set by the Village Board and set forth in the
fee schedule, as follows:
         a.   The cost of photocopying, calculated not to exceed the actual,
necessary and direct cost of reproduction.
         b.   If the form of a written record does not permit copying, the
actual and necessary cost of photographing and photographic processing shall be
charged.
         c.   Fees for copies of other records not in printed form on paper,
such as film, computer printouts and audio or videotapes, or oversized items,
shall be calculated not to exceed the actual, necessary and direct cost of
reproduction, and where the form of said record is not included in the fee
schedule, by the actual and necessary cost of reproduction.
         d.   If mailing or shipping is necessary, the actual, necessary and
direct cost thereof shall also be charged.
         e.   There shall be no charge for locating a record unless the actual
cost therefor exceeds $50.00, in which case the actual cost shall be determined
by the legal custodian and billed to the requester.
         f.   The legal custodian shall estimate the cost of all applicable
fees and may require a cash deposit adequate to assure payment, if such
estimate exceeds $5.00, subject to Wis. Stat. s. 19.35(3)(f).
         g.   Elected and appointed officials of the Village of Rochester shall
not be required to pay for public records they may reasonably require for the
proper performance of their official duties.
         h.   The legal custodian may provide copies of a record without charge
or at a reduced charge where he or she determines that waiver or reduction of
the fee is in the public interest.
         i.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 19.34, and the guidelines therein
listed, each authority shall adopt, prominently display and make available for
inspection and copying at its offices for the guidance of the public, a notice
containing a description of its organization and the established times and
places at which, the legal custodian from whom, and the methods whereby, the
public may obtain information and access to records in its custody, make
requests for records, or obtain copies of records, and the costs thereof. This
subsection does not apply to members of the Village Board.
   E.   Access Procedures.
      1.   A request to inspect or copy a record shall be made to the legal
custodian.
         a.   A request shall be deemed sufficient if it reasonably describes
the requested record or the information requested. However a request for a
record without a reasonable limitation as to subject matter or length of time
represented by the record does not constitute a sufficient request.
         b.   A request may be made orally, but a request must be in writing
before an action to enforce the request is commenced under Wis. Stat. s. 19.37.
Except as provided below, no request may be refused because the person making
the request is unwilling to be identified or to state the purpose of the
request. No request may be refused because the request is received by mail,
unless prepayment of a fee is required under subsection D.6.f. A requester may
be required to show acceptable identification whenever the requested record is
kept at a private residence or whenever security reasons or federal law or
regulations so require.
      2.   Each custodian, upon request for any record, shall, as soon as
practicable and without delay, either fill the request or notify the requester
of the authority's determination to deny the request in whole or in part and
the reasons therefore. If the legal custodian, after conferring with the
Village attorney, determines that a written request is too general as to be
unduly time consuming, the party making the request may first be required to
itemize his or her request in a manner which would permit reasonable
compliance.
      3.   A request for a record may be denied as provided in subsection G. If
a request is made orally, the request may be denied orally unless a demand for
a written statement of the reasons denying the request is made by the requester
within five business days of the oral denial. If a written request is denied in
whole or in part, the requester shall receive a written statement of the
reasons for denying the request. Every written denial of a request shall inform
the requester that if the request for the record was made in writing then the
determination is subject to review upon petition for a writ of mandamus under
Wis. Stat. s. 19.37(1), or upon application to the attorney general or a
district attorney.
   F.   Notice to Record Subject; Right of Action. The provisions of Wis. Stat.
s. 19.356, Notice to record subject; right of action, shall apply.
   G.   Limitations on Right to Access.
      1.   As provided by Wis. Stat. s. 19.36, the following records are exempt
from inspection under this section:
         a.   Records specifically exempted from disclosure by state or federal
law or authorized to be exempted from disclosure by state law, except as public
information contained therein may be separated as set forth in ss. 19.36(1) and
(6), and sub. G.4., below;
         b.   Any record relating to investigative information obtained for law
enforcement purposes if federal law or regulations require exemption from
disclosure or if exemption from disclosure is a condition to receipt of aids by
the state as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 19.36(2), and identities of law
enforcement informants as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 19.36(8);
         c.   Computer programs, although the material used as input for a
computer program or the material produced as a product of the computer program
is subject to inspection, as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 19.36(4);
         d.   A record or any portion of a record containing information
qualifying as a trade secret, pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 134.90.
         e.   Identities of applicants for public positions shall be limited as
provided by Wis. Stat. s. 19.36(7).
         f.   Access to employee personnel records, records of an individual
holding a public office, information related to certain employees, and
financial identifying information shall be limited as set forth in Wis. Stat.
ss. 19.36(10) through (13).
      2.   As provided by Wis. Stat. s. 43.30, public library circulation
records are exempt from inspection under this section.
      3.   In responding to a request for inspection or copying of a record
which is not specifically exempt from disclosure as set forth in this section,
or by other law, the legal custodian, after conferring with the Village
attorney, may deny the request, in whole or in part, only if he or she
determines that the harm to the public interest resulting from disclosure would
outweigh the public interest in full access to the requested record.
      4.   If a record contains information that may be made public and
information that may not be made public, the custodian of the record shall
provide the information that may be made public and delete the information that
may not be made public from the record before release. The custodian shall
confer with the Village attorney prior to releasing any such record and shall
follow the guidance of the Village attorney when separating out the exempt
material.
      5.   Whenever the Assessor, in the performance of the Assessor's duties,
requests or obtains income and expense information pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
70.47(7)(af), or any successor statute thereto, then, such income and expense
information that is provided to the Assessor shall be held by the Assessor on a
confidential basis, except, however, that the information may be revealed to
and used by person in the discharging of duties imposed by law, in the
discharge of duties imposed by office (including, but not limited to use by the
Assessor in performance of official duties of the Assessor's office and use by
the Board of Review in performance of its official duties) or pursuant to order
of a court. Income and expense information provided to the Assessor under Wis.
Stat. s. 70.47(7)(af), unless a court determines that it is inaccurate, is per
Wis. Stat. s. 70.47(7)(af), not subject to the right of inspection and copying
under Wis. Stat. s. 19.35(1), or this section.
   H.   Destruction of Records.
      1.   General Records Schedule Adopted. The Village hereby adopts the
Wisconsin Municipal Records Schedule ("Municipal Records Schedule"), approved
by the State of Wisconsin Public Records Board on August 27, 2018. A copy of
the Municipal Records Schedule will be kept on file in the Village Clerk's
office located at 300 West Spring Street and made available for public viewing
during Village Hall hours. The Municipal Records Schedule will apply to the
retention of any Village record that falls under the scope of the Municipal
Records Schedule.
      2.   Other Records. In the event it creates a record not contemplated by
the Municipal Records Schedule, the Village may, subject to the State of
Wisconsin Public Records Board's prior approval, either adopt an applicable
records retention schedule set forth by the State of Wisconsin Public Records
Board, if available, or create its own retention schedule pertaining to the
record.
      3.   Notification. When a record has met the terms of the retention
period, it may be destroyed by the legal custodian of the record, provided the
custodian has complied with the notification requirement set forth in Wis.
Stat. s. 19.21(4), to the Wisconsin State Historical Society.
      4.   Conflict. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in
the event of any conflict between the terms of this section and any applicable
state statute, the applicable state statute shall control.
   I.   Preservation Through Microfilm or Other Device.
   Any Village officer, or the director of any department or division of
Village government may, subject to the approval of the Village Board by
resolution, keep and preserve public records in his or her possession by means
of microfilm or another reproductive device, optical imaging or electronic
formatting. Such records shall meet the standards for reproduction set forth in
Wis. Stat. ss. 16.61(7) and 16.612, and shall be considered original records
for all purposes, as provided by Wis. Stat. s. 19.21. Such records shall be
preserved along with other files of the department or division and shall be
open to public inspection and copying according to the provisions of state law
and of this section.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 6-10-2024)
1-26. COSTS AND FEES.
   All persons, corporations, firms, limited liability companies, partnerships
or other entities applying for a license or permit or performing work which by
this Municipal Code requires Village or external review shall pay a fee upon
application for the license, permit, review of plans, variance, amendment or
other service to help defray the cost of administration, investigation or
processing. The applicable fee shall be in an amount as set by the Village
Board, which shall maintain a Fee Schedule adopted by Resolution and amended
from time to time by a simple majority vote of the Board. Where publication or
advertising is required, the cost thereof shall be in addition to the fees
noted in the Fee Schedule. If payment is not made in advance, interest at a
rate set by the Village Board shall be charged on invoices at least 30 days in
arrears, unless otherwise prevented by law, or another interest rate has been
set by law or ordinance. See also Chapter 17 of this Municipal Code.
1-27. GIFTS AND GRATUITIES.
   A.   Prohibition Against Receipt of Gifts. It is unlawful for any public
employee or public official to receive or offer to receive, either directly or
indirectly, any gift, gratuity, or anything of value that he or she is not
authorized to receive from any person, if such person:
      1.   Has or is seeking to obtain contractual or other business or
financial relationships with such public employee’s employer or the
governmental body of the public official; or
      2.   Conducts operations or activities which are regulated by such public
employee’s employer or the governmental body of a public official; or
      3.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by such public
employee’s employer or the governmental body of the public official.
   B.   Public Policy. The receipt of any gift, gratuity, or anything of value
as set forth in section A above is contrary to the public policy of the
Village.
   C.   Statutory Code of Ethics. The provisions of Wis. Stat. ch. 19, General
Duties of Public Officials, subch. III, Code of Ethics for Public Officials and
Employees, may be used in the interpretation of this Section.
1-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or any
regulation, rule or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 2 POLICE DEPARTMENT
2-1. VILLAGE MAY CONTRACT FOR POLICE SERVICES.
   A.   The Village of Rochester Board of Trustees, having no duty to do so
under state statutes but pursuant to its power under Wis. Stat. s. 61.34 to act
for the good order and for the health, safety, welfare and convenience of the
public, and Wis. Stat. s. 61.65, may contract with a county, town, city or
village law enforcement agency to provide police protective services on a part-
time or full-time basis within the Village of Rochester. If the Board
determines to enter such a contract for police services, it shall provide that
such services shall include, but not be limited to, the enforcement of Village
ordinances.
   B.   If the Board enters a contract for police services, citations written
under such contract for violations of Village traffic ordinances shall be made
on uniform traffic citation forms. Violations of other Village ordinances shall
be made by citation or summons and complaint drafted by the Village Attorney
and served by an officer. All violations will be prosecuted in Racine County
Circuit Court by the Village Attorney.
   C.   Wherever the term “sheriff” is used in this Municipal Code, it shall
mean the chief law enforcement officer of the agency with which the Village has
entered a contract for law enforcement service pursuant to this section
2-2. PEACE OFFICERS.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 61.31, the President and each Trustee shall be
officers of the peace, and may suppress in a summary manner any riotous or
disorderly conduct in the streets or public places of the Village, and may
command assistance of all persons present to render assistance.
2-3. ASSISTING OFFICERS.
   A.   At the request of any law enforcement or peace officer, any person in
the Village shall aid and assist such officer in the execution of his or her
duties. Whoever refuses or neglects to render such assistance shall be in
violation of this section and shall be subject to s.
2-50.
   B.   Every person who is ordered by a law enforcement or peace officer to
assist in maintaining order, enforcing laws and ordinances, removing or
guarding property or other necessary and proper law enforcement work or duties
shall be paid for such services by the Village at the minimum wage rate
prescribed by Federal or State law, whichever is applicable, per hour or
fraction thereof for all time actually devoted by such person to such duties.
2-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person failing to comply with this chapter shall be subject to a penalty
as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 3 FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICES AND SAFETY
3-1. VILLAGE MAY CONTRACT FOR FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICES.
   The Village of Rochester Board of Trustees, having no duty to do so under
state statutes but pursuant to its power under Wis. Stat. ss. 61.34 and 61.64,
to act for the good order and for the health, safety, welfare and convenience
of the public, may contract with a fire company or fire and rescue company
(hereinafter referred to as Fire Company) to provide fire protection services
and rescue services within the Village of Rochester.
3-2. INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Statutory Inspections. The Chief of the Fire Company under contract
with the Village shall provide for the performance of fire inspections for the
Village pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 101.14.
   B.   Changes of Use or Occupancy.
      1.   Whenever there is a change in occupancy of a building subject to
fire inspections pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 101.14, the property owner or his or
her duly authorized agent shall submit the changes in writing to the contracted
Fire Company within five working days. The information shall consist of the
following:
         a.   Name and address of occupancy.
         b.   Owner's name, address and phone number(s).
         c.   Agent's name, address and phone number(s).
         d.   Other information as required by the Fire Company.
      2.   Whenever a change in an alarm system or the service company for an
alarm system has occurred within an occupancy, the property owner or authorized
agent shall submit the changes in writing to the Fire Company within five
working days. The information shall consist of the following:
         a.   All information required in s. B.1.
         b.   Type(s) of fire protection systems.
         c.   Service company name, address and phone number(s).
      3.   No change may be made in the use or occupancy of any building or
structure, or any space within a building, structure, or space of a building or
structure either in a different division of the same occupancy group or in a
different occupancy group, unless the building or structure complies with this
chapter's requirements. This subsection does not apply to an approved temporary
use of less than 90 days.
      4.   An inspection by the Fire Company shall be required for any new or
change of occupancy.
   C.   Reinspections. In the event that a reinspection is required because of
violations found at a required inspection, the property owner shall be required
to pay a $50.00 reinspection fee for each reinspection. The Fire Company shall
bill the property owner directly for the reinspection fee.
3-3. FEE FOR RESCUE SERVICES.
   If the Board determines to enter a contract for rescue services, the Fire
Company shall be responsible for setting reasonable fees for such rescue
services, and will provide its fee schedule to the Village annually. The Fire
Company will bill the patients directly, and will not bill the Village for such
calls.
3-4. POLICE POWER OF FIRE CHIEF, RESCUE SQUADS.
   A.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 213.095, the Fire Chief or other person in
charge of a fire scene or rescue call shall have the authority to:
      1.   Suppress any disorder and order all individuals or companies to
leave the neighborhood of any fire or first aid scene.
      2.   Command from the inhabitants of the Village all necessary assistance
for the suppression of fires and the preservation of property exposed to fire.
      3.   Enter any property or premises to do whatever may reasonably be
necessary in the performance of the officer's duties while engaging in the work
of extinguishing any fire or performing any duties incidental thereto.
      4.   Enter any property or premises to do whatever may reasonably be
necessary in the performance of the officer’s duties while engaged in the work
of aiding persons or minimizing the loss to property at a first aid scene.
   B.   At the request of the person in charge of a fire scene or rescue call,
any person in the Village shall aid and assist such officer and cooperate with
such officer in the execution of his or her duties as set forth above. Whoever
refuses or neglects to render such assistance shall be in violation of this
section.
3-5. INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE FIGHTING OR RESCUE ACTIVITIES.
   A.   The provisions of Wis. Stat. ss. 941.12(2) and (3) are hereby adopted
as though fully set forth herein. No person may interfere or tamper with, or
remove, without authorization, any fire extinguisher, fire hose or firefighting
equipment. No person may interfere with accessibility to a fire hydrant without
first obtaining permission. This provision shall not be applicable to
interference with Fire Personnel while extinguishing a fire, or with the proper
functioning of a fire alarm system, which are felonies pursuant to Wis. Stat.
s. 941.12(1).
   B.   No person shall drive a vehicle over an unprotected fire hose when the
hose is laid down in any street or private driveway to be used at any training
exercise, scene of an emergency, or alarm of emergency without the consent of
the fire of the fire official in command in violation of Wis. Stat. s. 346.91.
   C.   No person shall interfere with the efforts of Fire or Rescue Personnel
while performing their duties.
3-6. FALSE ALARMS
   A.   Intentional False Alarms. Wis. Stat. s. 941.13 is adopted as though
fully set forth herein. No person may intentionally give a false alarm to any
public officer or employee, whether by means of a fire alarm system or
otherwise, and such person shall be subject to citation and penalty as set
forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
   B.   Penalties for All False Alarms. The Fire Company may charge a fee
directly to any property owner for more than two false alarms in any 12-month
period, whether intentional, accidental, or made with good intention, as
follows: The property owner shall be billed $50 for the third false alarm and
$100 for each false alarm received thereafter within the 12-month period. In
the event that any such bill is not paid within 30 days of receipt, the
property owner shall be subject to a penalty for the third false alarm, and an
increased penalty for each false alarm received thereafter, as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
   C.   In addition to the penalties provided in ss. A. and B, the Fire Company
may require that the fire alarm be serviced, upgraded, or replaced to bring the
alarm system into compliance with current code, solely at the owner's cost, in
order to prevent future false alarms.
3-7. ADOPTION OF STATE CODES.
   A.   The following Wisconsin Administrative Codes, as the same currently
exists or as hereafter may be amended, inclusive of Appendices to the listed
Codes, and exclusive of any penalty imposed thereby, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein:
   SPS 303      Administrative Procedure
   SPS 305      Licenses, Certifications and Registrations
   SPS 307      Explosives and Fireworks
   SPS 308      Mines, Pits and Quarries
   SPS 310      Flammable, Combustible and Hazardous Liquids
   SPS 314      Fire Prevention
   SPS 316      Electrical
   SPS 318      Elevators, Escalators and Lift Devices
   SPS 323      Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning
   SPS 326      Manufactured Home Communities
   SPS 328      Smoke Detectors and Carbon Monoxide Detectors
   SPS 340      Gas Systems
   SPS 341      Boilers and Pressure Vessels
   SPS 343      Anhydrous Ammonia
   SPS 345      Mechanical Refrigeration
   SPS 348      Petroleum Products
   SPS 361-366      Commercial Building Code
   SPS 371      Solar Energy Systems
   SPS 375-379      Building Constructed Prior to 1914
   B.   Compliance. Any act required to be performed or prohibited by any
chapter of the Wisconsin Administrative Code incorporated herein by reference
is required or prohibited by this section. Any violation of the incorporated
provisions constitutes a violation of this chapter.
   C.   Code Updates. Any future updates to the Wisconsin Administrative Codes
are also adopted prospectively by reference.
   D.   In cases of conflict between Local and State of Wisconsin Codes, the
most restrictive provisions shall govern.
3-8. ADOPTION OF NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION CODES AND PUBLICATIONS.
   The latest National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Codes and any
amendments thereto are adopted by reference, enforced and incorporated into
this chapter as if fully set forth herein. The following codes are routinely
referenced:
NFPA 1   Uniform Fire Code, as amended by Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 314
NFPA 10   Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers
NFPA 11   Standard for Low-, Medium- and, High-Expansion Foam
NFPA 12   Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems
NFPA 13   Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems
NFPA 13D   Standard for Sprinkler Systems in One and Two-Family Dwellings and
Manufactured Homes
NFPA 13R   Standard for Sprinkler Systems in Residential Occupancies up to and
Including Four Stories in Height
NFPA 14   Standard for the Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems
NFPA 15   Standard for Water Spray Fixed Systems for Fire Protection
NFPA 16   Standard for the Installation of Foam-Water Sprinkler and Foam-Water
Spray Systems
NFPA 17   Standard for Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems
NFPA 17A   Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems
NFPA 20   Standard for the Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection
NFPA 22   Standard for Water Tanks for Private Fire Protection
NFPA 24   Standard for the Installation of Private Fire Service Mains and their
Appurtenances
NFPA 25   Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Water-Based
Fire Protection Systems
NFPA 30   Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code
NFPA 30A   Code for Motor Fuel Dispensing Facilities and Repair Garages
NFPA 30B   Code for the Manufacture and Storage of Aerosol Products
NFPA 33   Standard for Spray Application Using Flammable or Combustible
Materials
NFPA 34   Standard for Dipping and Coating Processes Using Flammable or
Combustible Liquids
NFPA 35   Standard for the Manufacture of Organic Coatings
NFPA 36   Standard for Solvent Extraction Plants
NFPA 37   Standard for the Installation and Use of Stationary Combustion
Engines and Gas Turbines
NFPA 40   Standard for the Storage and Handling of Cellulose Nitrate Film
NFPA 42   Code for the Storage of Pyroxylin Plastic
NFPA 45   Standard on Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals
NFPA 51   Standard for the Design and Installation of Oxygen-Fuel Gas Systems
for Welding, Cutting, and Allied Processes
NFPA 51A   Standard for Acetylene Cylinder Charging Plants
NFPA 51B   Standard for Fire Prevention During Welding, Cutting, and Other Hot
Work
NFPA 54   National Fuel Gas Code
NFPA 55   Compressed Gases and Cryogenic Fluids Code
NFPA 58   Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code
NFPA 59   Utility LP-Gas Plant Code
NFPA 59A   Standard for the Production, Storage, and Handling of Liquefied
Natural Gas (LNG)
NFPA 61   Standard for the Prevention of Fires and Dust Explosions in
Agricultural and Food Processing Facilities
NFPA 68   Standard on Explosion Protection by Deflagration Venting
NFPA 69   Standard on Explosion Prevention Systems
NFPA 70   National Electrical Code®
NFPA 72   National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code
NFPA 75   Standard for the Protection of Information Technology Equipment
NFPA 76   Standard for the Fire Protection of Telecommunications Facilities
NFPA 80   Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives
NFPA 82   Standard on Incinerators and Waste and Linen Handling Systems and
Equipment
NFPA 85   Boiler and Combustion Systems Hazards Code
NFPA 86   Standard for Ovens and Furnaces
NFPA 88A   Standard for Parking Structures
NFPA 88B   Standard for Repair Garages
NFPA 91   Standard for Exhaust Systems for Air Conveying of Vapors, Gases,
Mists, and Noncombustible Particulate Solids
NFPA 92A   Standard for Smoke-Control Systems Using Barriers and Pressure
Differences
NFPA 92B   Standard for Smoke Management Systems in Malls, Atria, and Large
Spaces
NFPA 96   Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial
Cooking Operations
NFPA 99B   Standard for Hypobaric Facilities
NFPA 99C   Medical Gas and Vacuum Systems Installation Handbook
NFPA 101   Life Safety Code®
NFPA 101B   Code for Means of Egress for Buildings and Structures
NFPA 102   Standard for Grandstands, Folding and Telescopic Seating, Tents, and
Membrane Structures
NFPA 105   Standard for Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Opening Protectives
NFPA 110   Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems
NFPA 111   Standard on Stored Electrical Energy Emergency and Standby Power
Systems
NFPA 115   Standard for Laser Fire Protection
NFPA 160    Standard for the Use of Flame Effects Before an Audience
NFPA 170   Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols
NFPA 204   Standard for Smoke and Heat Venting
NFPA 214   Standard on Water-Cooling Towers
NFPA 221   Standard for High Challenge Fire Walls, Fire Walls, and Fire Barrier
Walls
NFPA 230   Standard for Fire Protection of Storage
NFPA 232   Standard for the Protection of Records
NFPA 241   Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration, and Demolition
Operations
NFPA 291   Recommended Practice for Fire Flow Testing and Marking of Hydrants
NFPA 303   Fire Protection Standards for Marinas and Boatyards
NFPA 307   Standards for the Construction and Fire Protection of Marine
Terminals, Piers and Wharves
NFPA 318   Standard for the Protection of Semiconductor Fabrication Facilities
NFPA 400   Hazardous Materials Code
NFPA 418   Standard for Heliports
NFPA 430   Code for the storage of Liquid and Solid Oxidizers
NFPA 432   Code for the Storage of Organic Peroxide Formulations
NFPA 434   Code for the Storage of Pesticides
NFPA 484   Standard for Combustible Metals
NFPA 490   Code for the Storage of Ammonium Nitrate
NFPA 495   Explosive Materials Code
NFPA 499   Recommended Practice for the Classification of Combustible Dusts and
of Hazardous Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical Process Areas
NFPA 560   Standard for the Storage, Handling, and Use of Ethylene Oxide for
Sterilization and Fumigation
NFPA 654   Standard for the Prevention of Fire and Dust Explosions from the
Manufacturing, Processing, and Handling of Combustible Particulate Solids
NFPA 655   Standard for Prevention of Sulfur Fires and Explosions
NFPA 664   Standard for the Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Wood
Processing and Woodworking Facilities
NFPA 704   Standard System for the Identification of the Hazards of Materials
for Emergency Response
NFPA 720   Standard for the Installation of Carbon Monoxide (CO) Detection and
Warning Equipment
NFPA 750   Standard on Water Mist Fire Protection Systems
NFPA 780   Standard for the Installation of Lightning Protection Systems
NFPA 801   Standard for Fire Protection for Facilities Handling Radioactive
Materials
NFPA 804   Standard for Fire Protection for Advanced Light Water Reactor
Electric Generating Plants
NFPA 850   Recommended Practice for Fire Protection for Electric Generating
Plants and High Voltage Direct Current Converter Stations
NFPA 853   Standard for the Installation of Stationary Fuel Cell Power Systems
NFPA 1123   Code for Fireworks Display
NFPA 1124   Code for the Manufacturing, Transportation, Storage and Retail Sale
of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles
NFPA 1125   Code for the Manufacture of Model Rocket and High Power Rocket
Motors
NFPA 1126   Standard for the Use of Pyrotechnics before a Proximate Audience
NFPA 2001   Standard on Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems
NFPA 2010   Standard for Fixed Aerosol Fire Extinguishing Systems
3-9. FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS.
   A.   Access in Construction Area.
      1.   A road shall be provided at the commencement of construction, major
alteration or demolition of any building having suitable strength to support
the heavy fire fighting apparatus operated by the contracted Fire Company. Such
road shall have a minimum clear width of 12 feet and clear height of 15 feet
above grade and shall be subject to the approval of the Fire Chief and Building
Inspector.
      2.   During construction operations, free access to permanent, temporary
or portable first aid and fire equipment shall be maintained at all times.
Arrangements shall be made so that fire fighters and rescue personnel will have
immediate access to the premises when called.
   B.   Driveways; Property Owner Liable; Markers.
      1.   All permanent driveways shall conform to the requirements of the
Planning and Zoning Code, but for all types of uses shall be maintained clear
of obstructions, plantings and overhanging tree branches for a width of at
least 12 feet and a height of at least 15 feet above the grade of the driveway.
      2.   The property owner is liable for the repair or replacement of any
fire apparatus that is damaged or destroyed while accessing a property in
response to a call or alarm.
      3.   Markers. Every driveway that is greater than 1,000 feet long shall
be marked at intervals of 1,000 feet beginning at the residence or other
buildings and extending to the roadway with a marker approved by the Fire
Company. No marker is required at the intersection of the driveway with the
roadway, but the owner shall notify the Fire Company that the driveway exceeds
1,000 feet, and the Fire Company shall request the Racine County Communications
Department (Dispatch Center) to flag the property so that the Fire Company is
notified of the length of the driveway in the event of an emergency.
   C.   Access to Fire Hydrants. Fire access from the street to fire hydrants
and outside connections for standpipes, sprinklers or other fire extinguishing
equipment, whether permanent or temporary, shall be provided and maintained at
all times. Protective pedestrian walkways shall not be so constructed as to
impede ready access to hydrants. No material or construction shall be placed
within ten feet of such hydrants or connections, nor between them and the
center line of the street.
3-10. RAPID ENTRY KEY BOXES.
   A.   Definition. "Rapid entry key boxes" are hereby defined as access boxes,
rapid entry lock box devices, or material lock boxes, with a high security lock
and designed to be either surface or recess mounted on a building to secure
keys to such building, such as those provided by The Knox Box Company currently
in use by the contracted Fire Company.
   B.   Rapid entry key boxes required. The Village of Rochester elects to
require the use of rapid entry key boxes as set forth in this section.
      1.   Where required. Rapid entry key boxes shall be required on all
multifamily dwellings of four families or more that have a common entrance or
share a common area accessible by all occupants. Rapid entry key boxes shall be
required on all assisted senior housing and community-based residential
facilities, industrial and commercial facilities as designated by the Fire
Chief of the contracted Fire Company, and any location where entry to the
property is secured in whole or part by a fence, gate, wall, or connected
buildings, or as otherwise directed by the Fire Chief. Entry key override
switches shall be required on any exit door at any location which uses a card
reader entry system and/or magnetic door lock security system.
      2.   Location. The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall approve the
location prior to installation of any rapid entry key box. Rapid entry key
boxes shall be located on the front of a building near the main entrance at
grade level, unless otherwise directed by the Chief.
      3.   Contents. The owner, agent or on-site manager shall provide the
appropriate keys to the building to be placed in the rapid entry key box. New
keys shall be provided when any locks are changed. Examples of keys to be
provided are:
         a.   A master key or keys to locked points of egress, whether interior
or exterior.
         b.   Keys to locked mechanical rooms.
         c.   Keys to locked elevator rooms.
         d.   Keys to elevator controls.
         e.   Keys to fire alarm panels or equipment.
      4.   Compliance. This section applies to all buildings and businesses set
forth in Subsection B.1 that are new construction, currently under
construction, or, because of a change of use, an addition, or remodeling must
apply for a certificate of occupancy. Compliance with this section is required
prior to the grant of an occupancy permit.
      5.   Costs and ordering. Property owners shall be responsible for all
costs of purchase and installation of any rapid entry key box, key override
switch or other material required by this section. The contracted Fire Company
shall supply forms for ordering any rapid entry key box, key override switch or
material required by this section.
      6.   Maintenance. The owner of any building within the scope of this
section shall maintain the rapid entry key box in good working order and be
responsible to assure that keys maintained within the rapid entry key box are
current keys to the existing locks in the building. When a change of locks
within a building is necessary, the owner shall advise the Fire Chief thereof
and place new keys in the rapid entry key box.
      7.   Unauthorized Key Removal Prohibited. No person, except authorized
fire department or law enforcement personnel, shall remove any key from a rapid
entry key box without the authorization of the building owner.
3-11. OUTDOOR AND REFUSE BURNING
   A.   Purpose. This section is intended to promote the public health, safety
and welfare, and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety
and welfare of the citizens of the Village of Rochester due to the air
pollution and fire hazards of open burning, outdoor burning and refuse burning.
   B.   Applicability. This section applies to all outdoor burning and refuse
burning within the Village of Rochester.
      1.   This section does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
      2.   This section does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace,
fireplace or other heating device within a building used for human or animal
habitation unless the material being burned includes refuse as defined in
subsection D of this section.
      3.   This section does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
   C.   Severability. Should any portion of this section be declared
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this section shall not be affected.
   D.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth.
   "Campfire" means a small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   "Clean Wood" means natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or
coated with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with
preservatives and does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other
composite wood products.
   “Confidential Papers” means printed material containing personal
identification or financial information that the owner wishes to destroy.
   "Fire Chief" means the Chief of the Fire Company contracted for fire and
rescue service by the Village pursuant to section
3-1 of this Municipal Code, or other person authorized by that Fire Chief.
   "Open Burning" means kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney.
   "Outdoor Burning" means open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired
furnace.
   "Any Outdoor Fired Furnace" means a wood-fired or other material-fired
furnace, stove or boiler that is not located within a building intended for
habitation by humans or domestic animals.
   "Refuse" means any waste material except clean wood.
   E.   General prohibition on outdoor burning and refuse burning. Open
burning, outdoor burning and refuse burning are prohibited in the Village of
Rochester unless the burning is specifically permitted by this section.
   F.   Materials that may not be burned. Unless a specific written approval
has been obtained from the Department of Natural Resources, the following
materials may not be burned in an open fire, incinerator, burn barrel, furnace,
stove or any other indoor or outdoor incineration or heating device:
      1.   Rubbish or garbage including but not limited to food wastes, food
wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint or painted materials, furniture,
composite shingles, construction or demolition debris or other household or
business wastes.
      2.   Waste oil or other oily wastes except used oil burned in a heating
device for energy recovery subject to the restrictions in Wis. Admin. Code ch.
NR 590.
      3.   Asphalt and products containing asphalt.
      4.   Treated or painted wood including but not limited to plywood,
composite wood products or other wood products that are painted, varnished or
treated with preservatives.
      5.   Any plastic material including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers.
      6.   Rubber including tires and synthetic rubber-like products.
      7.   Newspaper, corrugated cardboard, container board, office paper and
other materials that must be recycled in accordance with the recycling
ordinance except as provided in subsection K. of this section.
   G.   Open burning of leaves, brush, clean wood and other vegetative debris.
Open burning of leaves, weeds, brush, stumps, clean wood other vegetative
debris is allowed only in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   All allowed open burning shall be conducted in a safe nuisance free
manner, when wind and weather conditions are such as to minimize adverse
effects and not create a health hazard or a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroads or airfields. Open burning shall be conducted in conformance with all
local and state fire protection regulations.
      2.   Except for barbecue, gas and charcoal grills, no open burning shall
be undertaken during periods when either the Fire Chief or the Wisconsin
Department of Natural Resources has issued a burning ban applicable to the
area.
      3.   Open burning shall be conducted only on the property on which the
materials were generated or at a facility approved by and in accordance with
provisions established by the Department of Natural Resources and the Fire
Chief.
      4.   Unless explicitly allowed elsewhere in this section, a commercial
enterprise other than an agricultural or silvicultural operation may open burn
only at a facility approved by and in accordance with provisions established by
the Department of Natural Resources and the Fire Chief.
      5.   Open burning of weeds or brush on agricultural lands including fires
for cropland management, insect control and rodent control is allowed if dense
smoke is not created and if conducted in accordance with other applicable
provisions of this section, provided however that such burning may begin at 8:
00 a.m. The Racine County Sheriff’s Department shall be notified in advance of
the agricultural burning. The earlier start time allowed in this subsection
does not apply to refuse burning, burning in burn barrels, or any other type of
burning – it applies only to burning of vegetation in agricultural fields.
      6.   Fires set for forest, prairie or wildlife habitat management are
allowed with the approval of the Department of Natural Resources.
      7.   Outdoor campfires and small bonfires for cooking, ceremonies or
recreation are allowed provided that the fire is confined by a control device
or structure such as a barrel, fire ring, or fire pit. Bonfires are allowed
only if approved by and in accordance with provisions established by the Fire
Chief.
      8.   In emergency situations such as natural disasters burning that would
otherwise be prohibited is allowed if specifically approved by the Department
of Natural Resources.
      9.   Open burning under this section shall only be conducted at a
location no less than 20 feet from a property line or structure.
      10.   Except for campfires and permitted bonfires, open burning shall
only be conducted between 8:00 a.m. 1 and 7:00 p.m. No person shall kindle or
start an open fire or a fire in a container as described herein between the
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., and such fire must be extinguished by 8:00
p.m. Campfires and permitted bonfires that are strictly for recreational
purposes may be kindled or started between 7:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. and must be
extinguished by 1:00 a.m.
      11.   Open burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a
competent person of at least 18 years of age until the fire is extinguished and
is cold. The person shall have readily available for use such fire
extinguishing equipment as may be necessary for the total control of the fire.
      12.   No materials may be burned within five feet of any street, curb,
gutter or sidewalk or on the ice of a lake, pond, stream or waterbody.
      13.   Except for barbecue, gas and charcoal grills, no burning shall be
undertaken within 20 feet from any combustible material, combustible wall or
partition, exterior window opening, exit access or exit unless authorized by
the Fire Chief.
      14.   No open burning may be conducted on days when the Department of
Natural Resources has declared an Air Quality Watch or Air Quality Advisory for
ozone or fine particle pollution applicable to the Village of Rochester.
   H.   Burn barrels. A burn barrel may be used in the Village of Rochester in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   The burn barrel shall not be used to burn any of the prohibited
materials listed in subsection F of this section and may only be used in
accordance with the applicable provisions of subsection G of this section.
      2.   The burn barrel shall be located at least 50 feet from the nearest
building that is not on the same property as the burn barrel.
      3.   The burn barrel shall have vent holes above the ash line for
combustion air and shall be covered with a heavy wire screen.
      4.   The burn barrel shall not serve a commercial enterprise.
      5.   No fire in a burn barrel may be started before 8:00 a.m. and all
fires in burn barrels must be completely extinguished by 5:00 p.m. 2
   I.   Outdoor Fired Furnaces. An outdoor fired furnace may be installed and
used in the Village of Rochester in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   The outdoor furnace shall be installed and used only in an area
zoned for agricultural use.
      2.   The outdoor furnace shall not be used to burn any of the prohibited
materials listed in subsection F. of this section.
      3.   The outdoor furnace shall be located at least 150 feet from the
nearest building which is not on the same property as the outdoor fired
furnace.
      4.   The outdoor fired furnace shall have a chimney that extends at least
ten feet above the ground surface. The Fire Chief may approve a lesser height
on a case-by-case basis if necessary to comply with manufacturer's
recommendations and if the smoke from the lower chimney height does not create
a nuisance for neighbors.
      5.   The owner of the outdoor wood-fired furnace shall obtain a building
or other appropriate permits from the Village Building inspector.
   J.   Fire Department Practice Burns. Notwithstanding subsections E. and F.
of this section, the contracted Fire Company may burn a standing building if
necessary for firefighting practice and if the practice burn complies with the
requirements of the Department of Natural Resources.
   K.   Exemption for Burning Certain Papers.
      1.   Notwithstanding subsection F.7. of this section, paper and cardboard
products may be used as a starter fuel for a fire that is allowed under this
section.
      2.   Small quantities of confidential papers from a residence may be
burned if necessary to prevent the theft of financial records, identification
or other confidential information.
      3.   Confidential papers from a commercial enterprise shall be shredded
or destroyed in a manner other than burning.
   L.   Burning Moratorium. When weather conditions warrant, the Fire Chief or
the Department of Natural Resources may declare a burning moratorium on all
open burning.
   M.   Liability. A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be
responsible for all fire suppression costs and any other liability resulting
from damage caused by the fire.
   N.   Right of Entry and Inspection. The Fire Chief or any authorized
officer, agent, employee or representative of the Village of Rochester who
presents credentials may inspect any property for the purpose of ascertaining
compliance with the provisions of this section. If the owner or occupant of the
premises denies access to the property for this purpose, a special inspection
warrant may be obtained in accordance with Wis. Stat. s. 66.0119.
   O.   Penalty. The penalty for violation of any portion of this subsection
shall be a forfeiture of not less than $100 or more than $500 plus the cost of
prosecution. Penalties are doubled for second and subsequent offenses.
 
Notes
1 1 Ordinance #2016-1, Adopted 2-8-16
2 2 Ordinance #2016-6, Adopted 6-27-16
3-12. FIRE HAZARD, NOTICE.
   Any person allowing any accumulation of rubbish, trash, brush or other
combustibles to exist on premises owned, occupied or under the control of said
person which is deemed a fire hazard by the Chief of the Fire Company
contracted by the Village of Rochester shall, upon receipt of a written notice
executed by the Chief of said Fire Company, remove or cause to be removed the
said rubbish, trash, brush or other combustible material within five days after
receipt of said notice. Failure to remove said combustible materials within the
time specified in the written notice shall be a violation of this Chapter and
each and every day after expiration of the aforesaid time limitation shall
constitute a separate violation.
3-50. ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Enforcement. The Fire Chief, Village Law Enforcement Officer, Public
Works Manager and any other representative of the Village of Rochester are
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Violations and Penalties. Except as otherwise set forth herein, any
person failing to comply with this chapter shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 4 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
4-1. DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   To prepare the Village to cope with emergencies resulting from enemy action
and natural or manmade disaster, it is declared to be necessary to establish an
organization of emergency management for the Village by conferring upon the
President of the Village and others, specified duties and powers, consistent
with Wis. Stat. chapter 323.
4-2. DEFINITIONS.
   “Emergency Management” means all measures undertaken by or undertaken by or
on behalf of the Village:
   A.   To prepare for and minimize the effect of a disaster or the imminent
threat of a disaster.
   B.   Make repairs to or restore infrastructure or critical systems that are
destroyed or damaged by a disaster.
   “Disaster” means a severe or prolonged, natural or human caused, occurrence
that threatens or negatively impacts life, health, property, infrastructure,
the environment, the security of the Village or critical systems, including
computer, telecommunications, or agricultural systems.
   “Hazardous Substance” has the meaning set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 299.01(6).
   “Incident Command System” means a functional management system established
to control, direct, and manage the roles, responsibilities, and operations of
all the agencies involved in a multi-agency or multi- jurisdictional emergency
response.
4-3. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.
   A.   How Constituted. The Village Board shall be the Emergency Management
Committee, whose President shall be the President of the Village Board.
   B.   Duties. The Emergency Management Committee shall be an advisory and
planning group and shall advise the Emergency Management Coordinator on all
emergency matters. It shall annually prepare and adopt a budget for emergency
management.
   C.   Succession. In the event of an emergency those members of the Village
Board who are available shall have authority to conduct the activities of the
Village with no requirement of a quorum. In the event the President is
unavailable, the Trustee holding the longest continuous seniority as trustee at
the time of the emergency and who is available shall be the President of the
Emergency Management Committee.
4-4. COORDINATOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, DEPUTIES, POWERS/DUTIES.
   A.   Coordinator. There is created the office of Coordinator of Emergency
Management.
   B.   Appointment. The Coordinator and any deputies shall be appointed by the
Village Board President and confirmed by the Village Board.
   C.   Term. The term of office of the Coordinator shall be until a successor
is appointed and qualified.
   D.   Powers and Duties. The Coordinator, subject to the control and
direction of the Village Board, shall:
      1.   Develop and promulgate emergency plans for the Village consistent
with state and county plans.
      2.   Be in compliance with all federal and state training requirements
pertaining to this position.
      3.   Direct the emergency management program for the Village as required
by the Village Board.
      4.   Direct the Village emergency training programs and exercises;
      5.   Provide assistance to Village departments during such emergencies
requiring a major response or additional resources to support their efforts.
      6.   During a state of emergency declared by the Governor, the Emergency
Management Coordinator, on behalf of the Village, may contract with any person
to provide equipment and services on a cost basis to be used to respond to a
disaster or the imminent threat of a disaster.
      7.   Be the National Incident Management (NIMS), point of contact for the
Village and track all NIMS and ICS training to assure compliance with federal
and state guidelines.
      8.   Aid, assist, and guide all Village officials and departments in the
completion of forms relating to emergencies including, but not limited to, ICS
forms, emergency orders and declarations of disaster.
      9.   Advise the Racine County Emergency Management Coordinator on all
local programs and submit any required reports.
   E.   Deputy Emergency Management Coordinators shall function at the
direction of the Village Board and the Coordinator of Emergency Management and
shall in the Coordinator’s absence act on the Coordinator’s behalf in all
emergency matters.
4-5. UTILIZATION OF EXISTING SERVICES AND FACILITIES.
   A.   Policy. In preparing and executing the emergency management program,
the services, equipment, supplies and facilities of the existing departments
and agencies of the Village shall be utilized to the maximum extent
practicable; and the heads and personnel of all such departments and agencies
are directed to cooperate and extend such services and facilities as are
required of them.
   B.   Responsibility. In order to assure that in an emergency all the
facilities of the existing Village government are expanded to the fullest to
meet such emergency, department and agency heads assigned to specific
responsibilities under the Village emergency operations plan will fulfill
emergency and non-emergency duties as prescribed in the plan.
4-6. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE VILLAGE.
   A.   Declaration of Emergency. The Village President and Board of Trustees
may declare an emergency existing within the Village whenever conditions arise
by reason of a riot or civil commotion, a disaster, or imminent threat of a
disaster that impairs transportation, food or fuel supplies, medical care,
fire, health or police protection, or other critical systems of the Village. In
the absence of the Village President the Trustee holding the longest continuous
seniority as trustee at the time of the emergency and who is available may
declare an emergency based on the above criteria. The period of the emergency
shall be limited by this chapter to the time during which the emergency
conditions exist or are likely to exist.
      1.   In the absence of the Village President or any Trustees and based on
the above criteria an issue of expedience exists, any two of the following
Village officials may declare an emergency: the Village Clerk, the Public Works
Manager, the head of the contracted law enforcement agency, the Fire Chief of
the contracted Fire Company, the Emergency Management Coordinator and the
Deputy Emergency Management Coordinator.
      2.   Ratification. With the exception of a declaration by the Village
Board, any other declarations shall be subject to ratification, alteration,
modification, or repeal by the Village Board as soon as it can meet. Any
subsequent action taken shall not affect the validity of the declaration.
   B.   Powers during an Emergency. The emergency power conferred upon the
Village Board by this chapter and Wis. Stat. s. 323.11 includes the general
authority to order whatever is necessary and expedient for the health, safety,
protection and welfare of persons and property within the Village in the
emergency and includes the power to bar, restrict, or remove all unnecessary
traffic, both vehicular and pedestrian, from the roadway and limit or restrict
the operation of watercraft upon any waterway within the Village. The period of
the proclamation is limited to the time during which emergency conditions exist
or are likely to exist.
      1.   Proclamation. If, because of the emergency conditions, the Village
Board is unable to meet properly, the Village President or the Trustee holding
the longest continuous seniority as trustee at the time of the emergency and
who is available shall exercise by proclamation all the powers hereby conferred
on the Board.
      2.   In the absence of the Village President or any Trustees and based on
the above criteria and an issue of expedience exits, any two of the following
Village officials may declare an emergency: the Village Clerk, the Public Works
Manager, the head of the contracted law enforcement agency, the Fire Chief of
the contracted Fire Company, the Emergency Management Coordinator and the
Deputy Emergency Management Coordinator.
      3.   Ratification. With the exception of a proclamation by the Village
Board any other emergency proclamations shall be subject to ratification,
alteration, modification, or repeal by the Village Board as soon as it can
meet, but subsequent action taken shall not affect the validity of the
proclamation.
4-7. EMERGENCY USE OF VEHICLES.
   A.   In responding to an official request for help during any declared state
of emergency, any person may operate a boat or any motor vehicle, including a
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle that is not registered in this state.
   B.   Emergency management personnel, in accordance with Wis. Stat. s. 340.01
(3)(e), are authorized to use any vehicle of the Village and/or their private
vehicles as an emergency vehicle in the event of a bona-fide emergency.
4-8. RESPONSIBILITY FOR WORKERS COMPENSATION.
   A.   A member of the Village’s emergency management program is considered an
employee of the Village when providing his or her labor during a disaster, an
imminent threat of a disaster or a related training exercise or equipment
maintenance.
   B.   A volunteer who registers in writing with the Village Emergency
Management Committee to provide his or her own labor without compensation,
other than reimbursement for travel, lodging, or meals during a disaster, an
imminent threat of a disaster or a related training exercise is considered an
employee of the Village for workers compensation under Wis. Stat. ch. 102 for
purposes of any claim relating to the labor provided.
4-9. TEMPORARY LOCATION OF VILLAGE GOVERNMENT.
   A.   Whenever during a state of emergency it becomes imprudent, inexpedient,
or impossible to conduct the affairs of the Village at the Village Hall, the
Village Board of Trustees may meet at any place within or outside of the
territorial limits of the Village of Rochester by call of the Village President
or his/her successor, and shall proceed to establish and designate by
ordinance, resolution, or other manner, alternate or substitute places as
temporary locations of the government where all, or any part of, the public
business may be transacted and conducted during the emergency situation.
   B.   Exercise of Governmental Authority. While the public business is being
conducted at a temporary location, the Village Board and other officers of the
Village government shall possess and exercise all the executive, legislative,
administrative and judicial powers and functions conferred on the body and
officers under state law. Those powers and functions, except judicial, may be
exercised in the light of the exigencies of the emergency situation without
regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities
prescribed by law. All acts of the Village Board and Village officers shall be
as valid and binding as if performed within the territorial limits of the
Village of Rochester.
4-10. NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM – INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM.
   The Village of Rochester has resolved to adopt the National Incident
Management System (NIMS), and its component Incident Command System (ICS), as
the standard for all incident management in the Village and shall endeavor to
remain compliant with all standards and requests of the state and federal
officials.
4-11. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   A.   Prohibited Discharge. No person may discharge or release a hazardous
substance in violation of state or federal law in the Village of Rochester.
   B.   Emergency Response. A Declaration of Emergency is not required for the
immediate emergency response to a hazardous substance discharge or potential
discharge under this section, provided that, if appropriate, a Declaration of
Emergency shall be made as soon as possible.
      1.   A person who possesses or controls a hazardous substance that is
released, or who causes the release of a hazardous substance, shall take the
actions necessary to protect public health and safety and prevent damage to
property.
      2.   The Village’s emergency response to a discharge or potential
discharge of a hazardous substance shall be made pursuant to the provisions of
Wis. Stat. chapter 323, subchapter VII and the applicable state, county and
Village emergency plans. The Fire Chief, the head of the contracted law
enforcement agency, and/or the Emergency Management Coordinator may make orders
in accordance with said provisions.
      3.   If no emergency procedure for the response to a reportable hazardous
substance discharge, or a potential discharge, is included in the emergency
plans, the Fire Chief , the head of the contracted law enforcement agency, and/
or the Emergency Management Coordinator shall have the authority to develop an
emergency procedure tailored to the specific type of discharge and issue orders
in accordance with that procedure.
      4.   In the event of a hazardous substance discharge that is not required
to be reported under state or federal law, the Fire Chief shall have the
authority to develop a plan and issue orders for the remediation of the
discharge.
   C.   Recovery of Costs. A person who possessed or controlled a hazardous
substance involved in a release or potential release, and/or the person who
caused a hazardous substance release or potential release, shall reimburse the
Village for actual, reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in responding to
the release or potential release.
   D.   Site access. Access to any site, public or private, where a hazardous
substance discharge is indicated or suspected shall be provided to the
contracted Fire Company, the Emergency Management Coordinator, law enforcement
and any other emergency personnel required for the purpose of evaluating the
threat to the public and monitoring containment, cleanup, and restoration
activities.
4-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES; CIVIL LIABILITY
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or who refuses or
intentionally fails to comply with the directives of emergency management
authorities promulgated under this Chapter during a state of emergency, during
any training program or exercise, or as otherwise set forth in this Chapter
shall be subject to a penalty as provided by
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
   B.   Civil liability. Any person in violation of this Chapter shall be
liable to the Village of Rochester for any expenses incurred by the Village or
for any loss or damage sustained by the Village by reason of any violation of
this Chapter.
CHAPTER 5 TRAFFIC CODE
5-1. STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the statutory
provisions in Wis. Stat. chs. 340 to 349 and Wis. Stat. ss. 167.31 and 941.01,
describing and defining regulations with respect to vehicles and traffic, and
Wis. Admin. Code ch. Trans, describing and defining regulations with respect to
standards for motor vehicle equipment, for which the penalty for a violation
thereof is a forfeiture, are adopted and by reference made a part of this
chapter as though fully set forth herein. Any act required to be performed or
prohibited by any part of such chapters or sections incorporated herein by
reference is required or prohibited by this chapter. Any future amendments,
revisions or modifications of the chapters or sections incorporated herein are
intended to be made part of this chapter in order to secure uniform statewide
regulation of traffic on the highways, street and alleys of the State and to
secure uniform regulation of motor vehicle equipment which is used on the
highways, streets and alleys of the State and Village. The statutes and
regulations adopted herein shall be cited by this chapter number, followed by
the applicable statute or regulation number. This chapter shall be enforced by
the contracted law enforcement agency of the Village or any law enforcement
officer authorized by law. Where the word “sheriff” is used in this Chapter, it
shall mean the head of the Village’s contracted law enforcement agency and his
or her authorized law enforcement officers and deputies.
5-2. SPEED LIMITS.
   A.   State Statutes Adopted. The provisions of Wis. Stat. ss. 346.57, 346.58
and 346.59, relating to speed restrictions of vehicles are hereby adopted as
though fully set forth herein, except as specified in subsection B.
   B.   Modified Speed Limits. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 349.11, the Village
Board may modify the statutory speed limits in accordance with the requirements
of a particular area, and such modified speed limit shall be effective upon the
posting of appropriate signs giving notice of such limit.
5-3. DISORDERLY CONDUCT WITH A MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   A.   No person shall operate a vehicle within the Village upon premises held
out to the public for use their motor vehicles whether such premises are
publicly or privately owned, and whether or not a fee is charged for the use
thereof, in a manner which demonstrates carelessness or indifference to the
person or property of the operator or of others, or in a manner which is
boisterous, raucous, unreasonably loud or otherwise disorderly.
   B.   Penalty. Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50.00 for a first offense, and not
more than $100.00 for second and subsequent offenses within 12 months.
5-4. NO PARKING RESTRICTION.
   No person shall at any time park or leave a vehicles machinery, equipment or
appurtenance to any of the foregoing in the following streets or part thereof,
to-wit:
   A.   Fire Lanes.
      1.   Fox Street from the East line of Front Street to the Fox River.
      2.   Spring Street from the West line of Water Street to the Fox River.
      3.   Washington Street within 100 feet of the Musquequack River.
   B.   Other.
      1.   North Rochester Street, on the west side, from the North line of
Spring Street to the Northern Village limits.
      2.   Main Street, on either side, from the West line of Water Street to a
point 75 feet from the East line of Front Street.
      3.   [Reserved for future use.]
      4.   [Reserved for future use.]
      5.   West Fox Street, on the South side, from a point fifteen feet West
of the West line of North Front Street to the West line of North Front Street.
      6.   [Reserved for future use.]
      7.   Musquequack Street, on the East side, from its intersection with the
South line of Mink Ranch Road to a point 120 feet South of the South line of
Mink Ranch Road.
      8.   Musquequack Street, on the West side, starting 110 feet South of the
North line of Mink Ranch Road to its intersection with the North line of Mink
Ranch Road.
      9.   Mink Ranch Road, on the South side, from its intersection with the
East line of Musquequack Street to a point 198 feet East of the East line of
Musquequack Street.
      10.   Mink Ranch Road, on the North side, from its intersection with the
East line of Musquequack Street to a point 100 feet East of the East line of
Musquequack Street.
      11.   Evergreen Drive, on the North Side, starting on the common boundary
between the Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin, and the Village of
Waterford, Racine County, Wisconsin and ending at a point 712.3 feet along the
right-of-way line Southeasterly thereof.
      12.   Evergreen Drive, on the South Side, from a point 605 feet Southwest
of the Village=s common boundary with the Village of Waterford along the right
of way line to a point 456 feet Southwest of the boundary with the Village of
Waterford.
      13.   Evergreen Drive, on the South Side, from a point 312 feet Southwest
of the Village=s common boundary with the Village of Waterford along the right
of way line to a point 171 feet Southwest of the boundary with the Village of
Waterford.
      14.   West Spring Street, on the South Side, from the East line of North
State Street to West line of North Front Street.
      15.   North State Street, on the East Side, from its intersection with
the South line of West Spring Street to a point located 85 feet south of the
aforementioned intersection.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 12-9-2019)
5-5. THIRTY MINUTE PARKING (LOADING ZONE).
   Parking shall be limited to 30 minutes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. on the following streets, for the purpose of loading and unloading
vehicles. No parking shall be allowed in these areas at any other time:
   A.   The North side of Spring Street from the East line of North Rochester
Street to the West line of Washington Street; and
   B.   The West side of South Front Street from the South line of State Street
to the Village limits.
5-6. NIGHT PARKING RESTRICTION.
   A.   All parking is prohibited, except by permit, on all State and County
Highways and Village Streets within the Village limits, as follows: no person,
excepting physicians on emergency calls or other emergency vehicles, shall park
on said streets and highways between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of
any day.
   B.   The Village Clerk may issue overnight parking permits, for a maximum of
two vehicles (as described below) per residence. These permits shall be for the
parking of a vehicle on the street in front of the permitted residence only,
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., and shall be valid for three
months from the date of issuance. The fee for an overnight parking permit shall
be in an amount determined by the Village Board and set forth on the Fee
Schedule. No such permit may be issued for any of the restricted parking areas
specified in s.
5-4 of this Chapter. The permit shall be prominently displayed in the
windshield of the vehicle. The Village Board reserves the right to review and/
or revoke any permit.
      1.   No overnight parking permits will be issued for Main Street between
Front Street and State Street (both sides), Ag School Road, Beck Drive,
Camelback Mountain Road, English Settlement Avenue, Evergreen Drive, Fairview
Street, Fox Grove Drive, Mather Drive, Milwaukee Avenue, Oak Street, Oak Knoll
Road, Ridge Line Road, N. River Road, Rowntree Road, Schneider Lane, Seidel
Drive, Vista View Drive, Washington Avenue, Way-Mar Lane; or for the following
subdivisions; Buckley, Camelback Farms, Country Aires, Coyote Territory,
Fairview Heights, Hidden Acres, Honey Creek, Longview Heights, Rock Ridge,
Scotsdale Estates, Stoneridge, Mink Ranch, Fox Knoll Estates, and Weber
Estates.
      2.   Night parking permits shall be issued for the following types of
vehicles only:
         a.   Passenger Cars
         b.   Light Pick-up Trucks
         c.   Light Vans
      3.   Temporary or emergency on street parking will be permissible in the
Village Limits for up to three days. Vehicle owners must provide proper
notification to the Racine County Sheriff’s Department office.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 6-12-2023)
5-7. ANGLE PARKING RESTRICTION.
   Angle parking only is permitted on Main Street from Front Street to State
Street; and on South State Street from Fox Street to Main Street on the East
side of the street only.
5-8. PARKING AND MODIFIED SPEED LIMIT SIGNS.
   The Public Works Manager is hereby authorized and directed to procure,
erect, and maintain appropriate standard signs conforming to the rules of the
Wisconsin Department of Transportation giving notice of the parking
restrictions and modified speed limit provisions of this Chapter. No parking
restriction or modified speed limit provision of this Chapter shall be enforced
unless and until such signs are erected and in place and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
5-9. SNOW EMERGENCY.
   The Village President or Public Works Manager shall be authorized to declare
a snow emergency at such times as conditions require, and during such periods
of Snow Emergency, parking on one or both sides of Main Street between Front
Street and State Street shall be prohibited. The parking restrictions will be
announced at the time the Snow Emergency is declared. Enforcement of the
parking restrictions herein contained shall not be implemented until notice of
the Snow Emergency and parking restrictions has been duly posted and noticed.
5-10. WINTER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle on Evergreen Drive or Fox Grove Drive
between November 1 and April 1.
5-11. REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   In the event a vehicle remains illegally parked for more than a 24-hour
period without being moved, or in an emergency, or when impeding traffic or
posing a danger, or to facilitate snow removal, the Village may cause to be
removed any vehicle parked in violation of the restrictions contained herein.
The cost of such removal and vehicle storage shall be charged to the owner of
the vehicle in addition to any forfeiture imposed as a penalty. Vehicles not
reclaimed within seven days shall be deemed abandoned and the provisions of
section
5-12 shall apply.
5-12. ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A.   Prohibition. No person shall leave unattended any motor vehicle,
trailer, semitrailer or mobile home on any public highway or public or private
property for such time and under such circumstances as to cause the vehicle to
reasonably appear to have been abandoned. Any such vehicle in the same place
for 48 hours or more, or parked on a public roadway in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard, or parked in a posted no-parking zone shall be deemed
abandoned and a public nuisance. A motor vehicle shall not be considered
abandoned when it is out of ordinary public view or when designated as not
abandoned by the sheriff or his or her duly authorized representative. See also
s.
8-4 of this Municipal Code.
   B.   Removal of Abandoned Vehicles. Any law enforcement officer who
discovers any motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or mobile home which has been
abandoned on any public highway or public property shall cause the vehicle to
be removed or towed to a suitable place of impoundment. Upon removal, the law
enforcement officer shall notify the sheriff of the abandonment and the
location of the vehicle.
   C.   Impoundment; Disposal of Junked Vehicles. Any vehicle in violation of
subsection A. shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of under
subsection E., except that if it is deemed by the sheriff that the cost of
towing and storage charges for the impoundment would exceed the value of the
vehicle, the vehicle may be junked or sold prior to expiration of the
impoundment period upon determination by the sheriff or chief of police that
the vehicle is not stolen or otherwise wanted for evidence or other reason. All
substantially complete vehicles in excess of 19 model years of age shall be
disposed of in accordance with subsection E.
   D.   Responsibility for Costs. The sheriff is authorized to charge a
reasonable fee for storage of the vehicle and may also recover the actual cost
of towing from the owner or lienholders of record. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
342.40(3)(b), this section does not apply to stolen vehicles.
   E.   Sale of Abandoned Vehicles.
      1.   Any vehicle which is deemed abandoned by the sheriff or a duly
authorized Village representative and not disposed of under subsection C. shall
be retained in storage for a minimum period of ten days after certified mail
notice has been sent to the owner and lienholders of record to permit
reclamation of the vehicle after payment of accrued charges. Such notice shall
set forth the year, make, model and serial number of the abandoned vehicles,
the place where the vehicle is being held, and shall inform the owner and
lienholders of record of their right to reclaim the vehicle. The notice shall
state that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their rights to
reclaim the vehicle under this section shall be deemed a waiver of all right,
title and interest in the vehicle and a consent to the sale of the vehicle.
      2.   A public notice of the sale shall be posted at the office of the
sheriff or in the courthouse. The posted notice shall be in the same form as
the certified notice sent to owners and lienholders of record under subsection
1.
      3.   Each vehicle not reclaimed by the owner or lienholders may be sold.
The Village may dispose of the vehicle by sealed bid or auction sale. Any
interested person may offer bids on each abandoned vehicle to be sold. At such
sale the highest bid for any vehicle shall be accepted unless the bid is deemed
inadequate by the sheriff or a duly authorized Village representative, in which
event all bids may be rejected. If all bids are rejected or no bid is received,
the Village may re-advertise the sale, adjourn the sale to a definite date,
sell the vehicle at a private sale or junk the vehicle.
      4.   The purchaser of a vehicle under this section shall have ten
calendar days to remove the vehicle from the storage area, but shall pay the
storage fee established by the sheriff for each day the vehicle remains in
storage after the second business day following the sale. The Village shall
supply the purchaser with a completed form supplied by the state department of
transportation enabling the purchaser to obtain a regular certificate of title
for the vehicle. If the purchaser fails to remove the vehicle within ten
calendar days after the sale, the purchaser shall forfeit all interest in the
vehicle and it shall be deemed abandoned and may be resold.
      5.   Within five days after the sale or disposal of a vehicle as provided
in this section, the Village shall notify the state department of
transportation of the sale or disposition of the vehicle.
   F.   Release of Personal Property. Personal property contained in all
vehicles impounded under this section shall be inventoried. All such property
which is determined not to be stolen, evidence, or contraband may be released
to the owner upon request and upon proof of identification and ownership. No
payment shall be required to obtain release of these items. Personal property
shall be released during regular Village Hall office hours. Personal property
not claimed by the owner within five days of the sale or disposal of the
vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with the procedures established by
state law or this Code for abandoned personal property.
5-13. SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Class "B" Highways Designated. All streets and alleys within the
Village and all heavy traffic routes herein designated, except State highways,
and except Racine County trunk highways maintained by the County and designated
as Class “A" by the Racine County Board, are hereby designated as Class “B”
highways and shall be subject to the weight limitations imposed by Wis. Stat.
s. 348.16.
   B.   Restrictions on Use of Streets by Heavy Traffic. No vehicle or
combination of vehicles not operating completely on pneumatic tires or which
has a combined vehicle-load weight exceeding 10,000 lbs. shall be operated or
moved on any street or alley not part of the heavy traffic route designated in
sub. E., except to obtain orders for, move or deliver supplies or commodities
to or from a place of business or residence facing thereon, provided the weight
of the vehicle and load on such other street, when permitted, shall not exceed
the limitations of Wis. Stat. ss. 348.15 or 348.16(3) pertaining to Class “A”
highways and deliveries on Class “B” highways.
   C.   Stopping and Parking Restrictions.
      1.   Vehicles exceeding 10,000 lbs. permitted to operate and move on
streets which are not heavy traffic routes as herein defined shall in no case
stop or park upon any such street not a part of the designated heavy traffic
routes for a period of time in excess of 30 minutes between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m.
No stopping or parking such vehicles on or off streets not designated as heavy
traffic routes shall be permitted at any other time.
      2.   A maximum of one semi-tractor, excluding semi-trailer, or motor
vehicle designed to be operated by an individual holding a commercial driver’s
license, may be parked at the residence of the operator in a residentially
zoned district. Motors shall not idle for more than 15 minutes within a one
hour time period.
   D.   Seasonal and Special Weight Restrictions. The Village Board may
authorize the Public Works Manager to post seasonal or special weight
restrictions on Village streets as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 348.17.
   E.   Heavy Traffic Route.
      1.   There shall be recognized in the Village a heavy traffic route for
the operation of all heavy traffic in the Village of Rochester. Heavy traffic
is defined as any vehicle, excluding a motor bus, which exceeds, in its gross
weight, 10,000 pounds. The heavy traffic route shall consist of the following
streets and highways within the Village:
         a.   Main Street (County Highway D)
         b.   Front Street (County Highway W)
         c.   West Street (County Highway FF)
         d.   South Rochester Street (County Highway J)
         e.   Milwaukee Avenue (State Highway 36)
         f.   Beck Drive (State Highway 20)
         g.   Plank Road (County Highway A)
         h.   County DD (County Highway DD)
      2.   No heavy traffic shall operate on any street, highway or alleyway in
the Village not a part of such heavy traffic route, except such operation shall
be permitted for the following purposes:
         a.   For the obtaining of orders for supplies or the moving or
delivering of supplies or commodities to or from any place of business or
residence which has an entrance on such street or highway.
         b.   For the passage of emergency vehicles.
         c.   For the passage of vehicles operated for purposes of performing
maintenance to Village streets or installations, snow removal, street cleaning,
refuse removal or curb pickup and for the passage of vehicles involved in
maintenance or repair of public utility installations within the Village.
      3.   Notice of the existence of the heavy traffic route shall be posted
at all entrances to the corporate limits of the Village. This section is
adopted in conformance with Wis. Stat. s. 349.17.
   F.   Penalties. In every instance where a violation of this section occurs,
the penalty to be imposed shall be consistent with the current State of
Wisconsin Department of Transportation "per pound" overload violation schedule,
which is established by the Wisconsin Department of Transportation and which is
amended from time to time, and which is adopted herein in its present format
and as from time to time amended.
5-14. COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle equipped with compression brakes to
down shift and release the clutch to utilize the vehicle's engine to slow in
order to meet proper speed restrictions within the Village, except in case of
extreme emergency.
5-15. UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   Every passenger motor vehicle, including snowmobiles, shall be equipped with
a lock suitable to lock either the starting lever, throttle, steering
apparatus, gear shift lever or ignition system, and no person may permit a
motor vehicle in the person's custody from standing or remaining unattended on
any street, road, or alley or in any other public place, except an attended
parking area, unless either the starting lever, throttle, steering apparatus,
gear shift or ignition of the vehicle is locked and the key for that lock is
removed from the vehicle. This section shall not apply to motor vehicles
operated by common carriers of passengers under Wis. Stat. ch. 194.
5-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this Chapter or any
regulation, rule or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Where a specific penalty is set forth in
this chapter for a violation, that penalty shall apply.
CHAPTER 6 PUBLIC WORKS
6-1. PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE.
   The Public Works Committee will be comprised of members as specified in s.
1-24 of this Municipal Code.
6-2. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   Every sidewalk hereafter constructed in the Village shall be:
   A.   not less than four feet wide in residentially zoned areas and not less
than five feet wide in non-residential areas;
   B.   four inches thick, except where driveways cross the walk where it shall
be six inches thick;
   C.   built of Portland Cement concrete complying with WisDOT Standard
Specification s. 602 (minimum six bag mix air entrained);
   D.   to the grade and line established by the Village;
   E.   provided with transverse expansion joints every 50 feet at right angles
to direction and grade with expansion fillers one-half inch thick;
   F.   provided with tooled or sawn contraction joints each five feet;
   G.   constructed on a minimum two-inch thick compacted gravel base;
   H.   having fill to its grade adjacent except on sides abutting directly on
the traveled portion of the street or on a building;
   I.   located within the public right-of-way not more than one foot from the
side of the dedicated boundary of the street; and
   J.   provided with a cross-slope to drain not exceeding two percent (1/
4 inch per foot) pitched toward the ditch or roadway.
6-3. SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   A.   For the purposes of this section "sidewalks" includes approaches to
crosswalks at street intersections.
   B.   Every owner of land in the Village shall, at the owner’s cost and
expense:
      1.   Keep all sidewalks adjacent to the owner’s land in such repair as to
be safe for public travel; and
      2.   Keep all sidewalks adjacent to the owner’s land free and clear of
snow, ice, substances and obstructions which cause the same to be unsafe for
public travel.
      3.   When ice has so formed upon any sidewalk that it cannot be removed,
the sidewalk shall be sprinkled with sand, salt, or other like material so as
to prevent the sidewalk surface from being dangerous.
   C.   Subject to s. B.3., every owner or occupant of any lot or lots within
the corporate limits of the Village of Rochester, in front or near the line of
which there is a sidewalk commonly used by the public, shall clear said
sidewalk of all snow and/or ice within 24 hours after the cessation of each and
every snow and/or ice storm; and if such owner or occupant shall fail to remove
the snow and/or ice from any such sidewalk within the time aforesaid, the
President of the Village, any member of the Village Board, or the Public Works
Manager may cause such sidewalk to be cleared of snow and/or ice forthwith, and
the reasonable charges for such services shall be paid out of the village
treasury, and the party in violation for not removing such snow and/or ice,
shall pay a minimum charge per hour or any portion thereof, in an amount set by
the Village Board and placed in the Fee Schedule, for each such incident of
snow and/or ice removal, and also be subject to penalties as set forth in
Chapter 50 hereof. If the charge for snow and/or ice removal is not paid, it
shall become a special tax against the property pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
66.0907(5).
6-4. NOTICE OF AND DUTY TO REPAIR, REMOVE AND REPLACE, OR CONSTRUCT A SIDEWALK.
   A.   Sidewalk Construction. The Village Board may by ordinance or resolution
determine where sidewalks shall be constructed, and may order by ordinance or
resolution that sidewalks be laid.
   B.   Sidewalk Repair or Replacement. The Village Board or the Public Works
Committee may order any sidewalk which is unsafe, defective, or insufficient to
be repaired or removed and replaced with a sidewalk in accordance with the
standard fixed by this chapter.
   C.   Notice and Order. A copy of the ordinance, resolution or order to lay,
remove and replace, or repair a sidewalk shall be served on the owner, or agent
of the owner, of the lot fronting the area on which the work is ordered (the
“Order”). The Public Works Committee or Public Works Manager may serve the
Order as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0907(3)(c), either by personal service,
certified or registered mail, or publication as a Class 1 Notice together with
mailing by First Class Mail. The Order shall allow 20 days from the date of
service to lay, remove, replace or repair a sidewalk, and shall include the
specifications to be followed.
   D.   Appeal. Any person served with an Order pursuant to subsection C. shall
have ten days from the date of service to file an appeal with the Village Clerk
and request a hearing before the Village Board. The hearing shall be held at
the next Village Board meeting. A written decision by the Village Board shall
be issued within ten days of the hearing, and that decision shall affirm the
Order, amend the Order, or withdraw the Order. A property owner adversely
affected by the Board’s decision may seek judicial review by commencing an
action in Circuit Court within 30 days after the decision is issued. While the
Order is being appealed, the Order shall not be enforced against that property.
   E.   Default of Owner. In case of failure to lay, remove, replace or repair
such sidewalk within the time required by the Order, or failure to appeal the
Order, the Village may cause the work to be done at the expense of the owner.
All work for the construction of sidewalks shall be let by contract to the
lowest responsible bidder in conformance with Wis. Stat. s. 66.0907(3)(d),
except as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 62.15(1).
   F.   Minor Repairs. If the cost of repairs of any sidewalk in front of any
lot or parcel does not exceed $100.00, the Public Works Committee or Public
Works Manager, if so required by the Village Board, may immediately repair the
sidewalk, without Notice and Order, and charge the cost of the repair to the
owner of the lot or parcel of land, as provided herein.
   G.   Expense. The Public Works Committee shall keep an accurate account of
the expenses of laying, removing and repairing sidewalks pursuant to this
section, and shall report the expenses to the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall
enter the amount charged to each lot in the tax roll as a special tax, which
shall be a lien against the property and collected like other taxes on real
estate, pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0907(3)(f).
   H.   The Village Board may, in a case by case analysis, determine that it is
in the best interest of the Village and its residents to provide for payment of
sidewalk repairs in an installment method. Upon such a determination, the Board
shall establish an annual installment payment method of up to ten such annual
installments, shall approve the same by resolution, and shall advise the
treasurer of such resolution, who shall establish an expense statement, all
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0907(3)(f).
   I.   As an alternative to the above procedure, the Public Works Committee,
with the approval of the Village Board, may, at its discretion, determine that
the cost of construction, reconstruction or repair of any sidewalk be made in
full or in part at Village expense. In every case, however, where the damage to
or destruction of the sidewalk is the fault of the property owner or tenant,
the Public Works Committee shall proceed pursuant to subsections A through G
above.
   J.   Nothing in this section shall prevent an abutting property owner from
repairing his or her sidewalk at his or her expense, so long as the repair is
made to Village specifications.
6-5. CURB MAINTENANCE.
   When it is determined necessary to construct curbs within the Village of
Rochester by the Public Works Committee, the cost therefore shall be borne by
the abutting property owner.
6-6. OCCUPANCY OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Purpose and Findings.
         a.   Purpose.
            (1)   In the exercise of governmental functions the Village has
priority over all other uses of the public rights-of-way. The Village desires
to anticipate and minimize the number of obstructions and excavations taking
place therein and to regulate the placement of facilities in the rights-of-way
to ensure that the rights-of-way remain available for public services and safe
for public use. The taxpayers of the Village bear the financial burden for the
upkeep of the rights-of-way and a primary cause for the early and excessive
deterioration of its rights-of-way is the frequent excavation by persons who
locate facilities therein.
            (2)   The purpose of this Section is to provide the Village a legal
framework within which to regulate and manage the public rights-of-way, and to
provide for recovery of the costs incurred in doing so. This Section provides
for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Village as they use
the rights-of-way of the Village, as well as to ensure the structural integrity
of the public rights-of-way.
         b.   Findings.
            (1)   The Village finds increased use of the public rights-of-way
and increased costs to the taxpayers of the Village and that these costs are
likely to continue into the foreseeable future.
            (2)   The Village finds that occupancy and excavation of its
rights-of-way causes costs to be borne by the Village and its taxpayers,
including but not limited to:
               (a)   Administrative costs associated with public right-of-way
projects, such as permitting, inspection and supervision, supplies and
materials.
               (b)   Management costs associated with ongoing management
activities necessitated by public right-of-way users.
               (c)   Repair or restoration costs to the roadway associated with
the actual excavation into the public right-of-way.
               (d)   Depreciation caused to the roadway in terms of decreased
useful life, due to excavations into the public rights-of-way.
      2.   In response to the foregoing facts, pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss.
61.34, 61.36, 196.58, and any other statute granting the Village the power to
manage and control its rights-of-way and the utilities operating in the
Village, the Village hereby enacts this Section of the Municipal Code, relating
to administration of and permits to excavate, obstruct and/or occupy the public
rights-of-way. This section imposes reasonable regulations on the placement and
maintenance of equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed
therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles
of state and federal agencies.
   B.   Definitions. The following definitions apply in this Section.
References hereafter to “sections” are unless otherwise specified references to
subsections in this Section. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not
capitalized.
   “Applicant” means any person requesting permission to excavate, obstruct
and/or occupy a right-of-way.
   “Village” means the Village of Rochester, Wisconsin, a Wisconsin municipal
corporation.
   “Emergency” means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to
life or health, or of a significant loss of property; or requires immediate
repair or replacement in order to restore service to a customer.
   “Engineer” means the Village Engineer or his/her designee.
   “Excavate” means to dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   “Facilities” means all equipment owned, operated, leased or subleased in
connection with the operation of a service or utility service, and shall
include but is not limited to poles, wires, pipes, cables, cabinets, boxes,
underground conduits, ducts, manholes, vaults, fiber optic cables, lines, and
other structures and appurtenances.
   “In,” when used in conjunction with “right-of-way,” means over, above,
within, on or under a right-of-way.
   “Local representative” means a local person or persons, or designee of such
person or persons, authorized by an applicant or permittee to accept service
and to make decisions for that applicant or permittee regarding all matters
within the scope of this Chapter.
   “Obstruct” means to place any object in a right-of-way so as to hinder free
and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   “Permittee” means any Person to whom a permit to occupy, excavate or
obstruct a right-of-way has been granted by the Village under
Chapter 6 of this Code.
   “Person” means corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership or other entity and
individuals and their lessors, transferees, assignees and receivers.
   “Public Utility” has the meaning provided in Wis. Stat. s. 196.01(5).
   “Restore” or “Restoration” means the process by which an excavated right-of-
way and surrounding area, including pavement and foundation is reconstructed,
per the Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction and Public Works
Manager specifications.
   “Right-of-Way” means the surface and space above and below an improved or
unimproved public roadway, highway, street, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in
which the Village has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for
travel purposes.
   C.   Administration. The Public Works Manager and the Village Clerk, or
their designees, are responsible for the administration of the rights-of-way,
and the permits and ordinances related thereto.
      1.   Requirements for Right-of-Way Occupancy.
         a.   Each person who has, or seeks to have, facilities located in any
right-of-way shall meet the requirements set forth herein.
         b.   No person may construct, install, maintain, repair, remove,
relocate or perform any other work on, or use any equipment or any part thereof
in any right-of-way unless that person meets the requirements set forth herein.
         c.   Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a Village ordinance requiring persons to plant or maintain the
parkway in the area of the right-of-way between their property and the street
curb or pavement or other similar activities. Persons performing such
activities shall not be required to obtain any permits under this Chapter.
      2.   Reporting Obligations. It is in the best interests of all affected
parties to attempt to coordinate construction in the public right-of-way
whenever it is reasonably possible. Therefore, periodic reporting by persons
intending to work in the right-of-way of known construction plans will be
useful to achieve this objective.
         a.   Every person intending to work in the right-of way shall, no
later than January 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance
plan with the Public Works Manager. The Public Works Manager shall make
available at the time of such filing, and on January 15 of each year the
Village’s construction and major maintenance plan. The person’s plan and the
Village’s plan shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Public Works
Manager and shall contain the information determined by the Public Works
Manager to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations of rights-of-way. The plan shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following information:
            (1)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects planned to be commenced during the next calendar year; and
            (2)   The tentative locations and estimated beginning and ending
dates for all projects contemplated for the two years following the next
calendar year.
         b.   By February 15 of each year, the Public Works Manager will have
available for inspection in his or her office a composite list of all projects
of which the Public Works Manager has been informed in the annual plans. All
persons are responsible for keeping themselves informed of the current status
of this list.
         c.   Thereafter, by February 1, each person may change any project in
its list and must notify the Public Works Manager of all such changes in said
list. The Public Works Manager will make all such changes available for
inspection in his or her office. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person may at
any time join in a project of another person listed by the other person or
undertake any maintenance or construction project not listed in person’s plan.
   D.   Permit to Excavate in Right-of-Way Required.
      1.   Excavation Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter or other chapters of the Village of Rochester Municipal Code, no person
shall excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained an excavation
permit from the Public Works Manager. A copy of any permit issued under this
Chapter shall be made available at all times by the Permittee at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Village upon request.
      2.   Excavation Permit Application. Application for a permit shall be
made to the Public Works Manager. Permit applications shall contain, and will
be considered complete only upon compliance with the requirements of the
following provisions:
         a.   Applicant Information. The information provided to the Public
Works Manager at the time of application shall include, but not be limited to:
            (1)   Each applicant’s name, Diggers Hotline registration
certificate number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers. If the applicant intends to hire a contractor, the name
and contact information for the contractor shall be provided, but the applicant
shall be liable for the requirements herein.
            (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local
representative or designee shall be available at all times. Current information
regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency shall be
provided at the time of application.
            (3)   A certificate of insurance on a form prescribed by the Public
Works Manager, naming the Village of Rochester as an additional insured, or a
cash or performance bond, in an amount determined by the Village Engineer, if
the Public Works Manager has reasonable grounds to question the financial
responsibility or compliance ability of the applicant.
            (4)   Execution of an indemnification agreement in a form
prescribed by the Public Works Manager.
            (5)   If the applicant regularly performs work in the Village
rights-of-way, the applicant may provide the information required in
subsections (1) through (4) herein annually, provided that the applicant shall
be liable to keep said information up-to-date and shall notify the Public Works
Manager within 10 calendar days following the date on which the applicant has
knowledge of any change. If applicable, the applicant’s insurer shall be
required to notify the Village 30 days prior to a cancellation or reduction of
coverage or limits.
         b.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all existing and proposed facilities that
are part of applicant’s proposed project, whether above- or below-ground.
         c.   Payment of all money due to the Village for:
            (1)    Applicable permit fees and costs as set forth below;
            (2)   Subject to section
6-6.D.2.d., unpaid fees or costs due for prior excavations; or
            (3)   Subject to section
6-6.D.2.d, any loss, damage, or expense suffered by the Village because of
applicant’s prior excavations of the rights-of-way or any emergency actions
taken by the Village.
         d.   The Public Works Manager shall not deny an applicant an
excavation permit because of a dispute between the Village and the applicant,
related to sections 6-6.D.2.c(1) or (3) if:
            (1)   The dispute has been adjudicated in favor of the applicant;
            (2)   The dispute is the subject of any appeal filed by the
applicant and no decision in the matter has as yet been rendered.
         e.   The Public Works Manager may deny an applicant a permit pursuant
to the provisions of this Section. See specifically subsection s.
6-6.I.
      3.   Excavation Permit Fee. The Excavation Permit Fee shall be
established by the Village Board in an amount sufficient to recover the costs
incurred by the Village. This fee shall recover administrative and inspection
costs. Payment of said fees shall be collected prior to issuance of the permit.
However, the Village Clerk may, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, establish a fee collection process from governmental agencies and
private utilities in order to expedite the permitting system and recognize that
certain excavations are deemed emergencies.
      4.   Waiving of Fees. Fees shall not be waived unless the work involved
is a direct result of the Public Works Manager’s demand that a plant owned by a
utility be removed or relocated or unless waived by the Finance Committee on
appeal.
      5.   For those permit applications which provide for a substantial
undertaking of excavation within the public right-of-way attended by disruption
of the general public and traffic, the Public Works Manager is authorized to
assess the actual cost of a Village employee’s time engaged in the review and
inspection of the anticipated work multiplied by a factor determined by the
respective department to represent the Village’s cost for statutory expense,
benefits, insurance, sick leave, holidays, vacation and similar benefits,
overhead and supervision, said factor not to exceed 2.0, plus the cost of
mileage reimbursed to Village employees which is attributed to the work, plus
all consultant fees associated with the work at the invoiced amount plus ten
percent for administration, except as may be limited by Wis. Stat. s. 66.0628.
      6.   Village Exemption. The Village and its contractors shall not pay
permit fees for excavations due to general government functions.
      7.   Permit fees paid for a permit that the Public Works Manager has
revoked are not refundable.
   E.   Right-of-Way Work; Locating Wires; Restoration.
      1.   Working in the Right-of-Way.
         a.   Frozen ground. No openings shall be permitted when the ground is
frozen in any Village street, sidewalk or parking area between November 15 and
April 1 except where necessary or in an emergency as determined by the Public
Works Manager.
         b.   Removal of paving. In opening any street or other public way, all
paving or ballasting materials shall be saw cut and removed with the least
possible loss of or injury to surfacing materials and, together with the
excavated material from trenches, shall be placed so as to cause the least
practicable inconvenience to the public and permit free flow of water along
gutters. All pavement shall be straightedge or saw cut in a straight line, on
all sides of the opening to a minimum depth of two inches.
         c.   State and county trunk highways. Notwithstanding any other
provision to the contrary, state and county trunk highway crossings to install
services, laterals, etc., shall be effected through auguring, jacking or
tunneling as opposed to making an opening in the highway itself. The applicant
shall also obtain the necessary permits from the respective highway
commissioners.
         d.   Protection of the public. Every permittee shall enclose with
sufficient barriers each opening which he or she may make in the rights-of-way
of the Village. All machinery and equipment shall be locked or otherwise
effectively safeguarded from unauthorized use when not being used by the
permittee, and/or his or her agents or employees. Amber lights shall be placed
at each end of the opening and in other locations necessary to give adequate
warning to the traveling public. Except by special permission from the Public
Works Manager, no trench shall be excavated more than 250 feet in advance of
pipe laying nor left unfilled for more than 500 feet where pipe has been laid.
All necessary precautions shall be taken to guard the public effectually from
accidents or damage to persons or property through the period of the work.
         e.   Restoring street surface. In making any opening, the paving
materials, sand, gravel and earth or other material moved or penetrated and all
surface monuments or hubs shall be removed and replaced as nearly as possible
to their original condition or position and the same relation to the remainder
as before. Any excavated material which, in the opinion of the Public Works
Manager, is not suitable for refilling shall be replaced with approved backfill
material. When the sides of the trench will not stand perpendicular, sheathing
and braces shall be used to prevent caving. All trench backfilling under
pavement, driveways, shoulders and sidewalk shall be of thoroughly compacted
granular backfill. All rubbish shall be immediately removed. In refilling the
opening, the granular material shall be puddled or laid in layers not more than
six inches deep and in each layer rammed, tamped or flushed to prevent caving.
No timber, bracing, lagging, sheathing or other lumber shall be left in any
trench. All street openings shall have at least eight inches of compacted
crushed road gravel placed on the top of the opening and shall have the
original surface restored to the same type and thickness.
         f.   Backfilling trenches. All trenches shall be backfilled within 24
hours after being opened, unless otherwise permitted by the Public Works
Manager, and the surface shall be restored within 72 hours after being opened.
The Public Works Manager reserves the option to complete restoration of any
excavation if the above-mentioned time limits are exceeded, assessing any cost
thereof pursuant to section
6-6.E.5.
         g.   Parkways. Parkways shall be restored with sod or seed.
      2.   Locating Wire Required. Any person installing a nonconductive main
or lateral shall also install a locating wire for marking the location of the
main or lateral, as follows:
         a.   If the main to which the main or lateral is being connected
contains a locating wire, the person shall connect one end of the locating wire
for the main or lateral to the existing wire located on the stub or the main.
         b.   If the main to which the main or lateral is being connected does
not contain a locating wire, the person shall attach the locating wire for the
main or lateral to its junction with the stub or main.
         c.   The person shall continue the installation of the locating wire
for the full length of the main installed, and from the lateral to point where
the lateral enters the structure. The person shall continue to run the locating
wire vertically up the outside of the structure, from the location where the
lateral entered the structure, and shall encase the uppermost four feet (or
more) of the vertical portion of the locating wire in a one-inch Schedule 80
PVC conduit, with cap, which shall be accessible and uniform. The conduit shall
extend at least four inches above the final grade, and shall hold at least one
foot of excess wire. There shall be no plantings at the site that would damage
the conduit or locating wire, or prevent the detection of the location of the
locating wire.
      3.   The Permittee shall be required to restore the public right-of-way
in accordance with the Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction
and Public Works Manager specifications, subject to inspection and acceptance
by the Village Engineer. In addition to restoring its own work, the Permittee
must restore the general area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including
the paving and its foundations, to the Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction and the specifications of the Public Works Manager. The Village
Engineer shall inspect the area of the work and accept the work when the
Engineer determines that proper restoration has been made, per the Standard
Specifications for Public Works Construction and the specifications of the
Public Works Manager. The Permittee shall not be required to restore the right-
of-way or the general area surrounding the work to a condition which improves
the pre-excavation condition.
      4.   Guarantees. The Permittee shall guarantee its work and shall
maintain it for 12 months following its completion. During this period it
shall, upon notification from the Public Works Manager, correct all work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the Public Works Manager or the
Village Engineer. Said work shall be completed within ten calendar days of the
receipt of the notice from the Public Works Manager, not including days during
which work cannot be done because of circumstances constituting force majeure.
      5.   Failure to Restore. If the Permittee fails to restore the right-of-
way in the manner and to the condition required by the Village Engineer or the
Public Works Manager, or fails to satisfactorily and timely complete all work
required by the Public Works Manager, the Village at its option may do such
work. In that event the Permittee shall pay to the Village, within 30 days of
billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way.
      F.   Inspection; As-built Drawings.
         1.   Notice of Completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
begun and completed, the permittee shall notify the Public Works Manager. Upon
completion, the permittee shall submit as-built drawings to the Village if
required by the Village.
         2.   Site Inspection. The permittee shall make the work site available
to the Village Engineer and the Public Works Manager and to all others as
authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution
of and upon completion of the work.
         3.   Authority of Public Works Manager. At the time of inspection the
Village may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a threat to
the life, health, safety or well-being of the public. The Village may issue an
order to the applicant or permittee for any work that does not conform to the
applicable Village standards, conditions or codes. The order shall state that
failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit.
Within ten days after issuance of the order, the applicant or permittee shall
present proof to the Public Works Manager that the violation has been
corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the required time, the
Public Works Manager may revoke the permit pursuant to section
6-6.I.
      G.   Ongoing Management Fees. The cost of trimming trees or maintaining
landscaping around facilities is an ongoing cost to the Village. The specific
cost will be determined and a fee to offset those costs may be assessed in the
future.
      H.   Compliance with Other Laws. Obtaining a permit to excavate and/or
occupy the right-of-way does not relieve the permittee of its duty to obtain
all other necessary permits, licenses, and authority and to pay all fees
required by any other Village, County, State, or Federal rules, laws or
regulations. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of local, state and
federal laws. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work. If an applicant is required to obtain a franchise or enter into
an agreement pursuant to any other section of this Code, it shall do so prior
to making application hereunder.
      I.   Revocations, Suspensions, Refusals to Issue or Extend Permits.
         1.   The Public Works Manager may refuse to issue a permit or may
revoke, suspend or refuse to extend an existing permit if it finds any of the
following grounds:
            a.   The applicant has not submitted the required application
materials;
            b.   Issuance of a permit for the requested date would interfere
with an exhibition, celebration, festival or other event;
            c.   Misrepresentation of any fact by the applicant or permittee;
            d.   Failure of the applicant or permittee to maintain required
bonds and/or insurance;
            e.   Failure of the applicant or permittee to complete work in a
timely manner;
            f.   The proposed activity is contrary to the public health, safety
or welfare;
            g.   The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is
sought is available;
            h.   The competing demands for the particular space in the right-
of-way.
            i.   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way or in
other rights-of-way for the facilities of the permittee or applicant;
            j.   The applicability of ordinances or other regulations of the
right-of-way that affect location of facilities in the right-of-way;
         2.   Discretionary Issuance. The Public Works Manager may issue a
permit where issuance is necessary:
            a.   to prevent substantial economic hardship to a customer of the
permittee or applicant; or
            b.   to allow such customer to materially improve its utility
service; or
            c.   to allow the permittee or applicant to comply with state or
federal law or Village ordinance or an order of a court or administrative
agency.
         3.   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Public Works
Manager revoking, suspending, refusing to issue or refusing to extend a permit
may file a request for review with the Village Board. A request for review
shall be filed within ten days of the decision being appealed. Following a
hearing, the Village Board may affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the
Public Works Manager.
   J.   Work Done Without a Permit.
      1.   Emergency Situations.
         a.   Each person shall immediately notify the Village by verbal notice
on an emergency phone number provided by the Village of any event regarding its
facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The person may proceed to take
whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business
days after the occurrence of the emergency the person shall apply for the
necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and otherwise fully comply
with the requirements of this Chapter.
         b.   If the Village becomes aware of any emergency regarding a
person’s facilities, the Public Works Manager may attempt to contact the local
representative of each person affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency. The Village may take whatever action it deems necessary to protect
the public safety as a result of the emergency, the cost of which shall be
borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
      2.   Non-Emergency Situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, excavates a right-of-way
must subsequently obtain a permit, and shall in addition to any penalties
prescribed by ordinance, pay double the normal fee for said permit, pay double
all the other fees required by this Chapter or other Chapters of the Village of
Rochester Municipal Code, deposit with the Public Works Manager the fees
necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-way and comply with all of the
requirements of this Chapter.
   K.   Location of Facilities.
      1.   Placement.
         a.   Unless in conflict with state or federal law, except when
existing aboveground facilities are used, the installation of new facilities
and replacement of old facilities shall be done underground or contained within
buildings or other structures in conformity with applicable codes.
         b.   All above-ground structures, cabinets or boxes shall be precisely
indicated on the plans submitted pursuant to subsection
6-6.D.2.b., including the size and appearance thereof. The Public Works Manager
may require alternative placement of said structures, cabinets or boxes as part
of the permitting process if he or she determines that the planned placement
interferes with public safety, health or welfare. The Public Works Manager may
also reasonably require screening of said structures, cabinets or boxes if he
or she determines that the public welfare is harmed by the potential diminution
of property values in the area because of the appearance of said structures,
cabinets or boxes. No above ground facility, structure, cabinet or box may
interfere with the use of the adjacent property.
         c.   All underground facilities shall be precisely indicated on the
plans submitted pursuant to subsection 6- 6.D.2.b. The Public Works Manager may
require alternative placement of said facilities as part of the permitting
process if he or she determines that said facilities interfere with the public
safety, health or welfare. No underground facility may interfere with the use
of the adjacent property.
      2.   Limitation of Space. The Public Works Manager may prohibit or limit
the placement of new or additional facilities within the right-of-way if there
is insufficient space to accommodate all of the requests of persons to occupy
and use the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the Public Works Manager
shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential
users of the right-of-way, but may prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities when required to protect the public, health, safety or
welfare. Basic required municipal uses such as sewer and storm sewer mains and
laterals shall be given priority in furtherance of such protection of the
public health, safety and welfare.
      3.   Attachment to Bridges. Whenever an applicant or permittee under this
section requests permission to attach pipes, conduits, cables or wires to any
Village bridge structure, upon the granting of such permission, the applicant
shall pay the actual cost to the Village of the administrative and engineering
expense in the analysis and inspection of such installation. The owner of such
pipes, conduits, cables or wires shall be entitled to no compensation for
removal or relocation of the same in the case of repair, removal, or
replacement of said bridge structure by the Village.
   L.   Relocation of Facilities.
      1.   Permanent Relocation.
         a.   A person must, promptly and at its own expense, permanently
remove and relocate its facilities in the right- of-way whenever the Village,
acting in its governmental capacity for the health, safety or public welfare,
requests such removal and relocation. If requested, the person shall restore
the right-of-way.
         b.   Notwithstanding subsection a., a person shall not be required to
remove or relocate its facilities from any right-of-way which has been vacated
in favor of a non-governmental entity unless and until the person gives written
consent to the vacation, or the person fails to use the easements and rights
for a period of four years from the date of the vacation, or the reasonable
costs of the relocation are first paid to the person therefore, pursuant to
Wis. Stat. s. 66.1005(2).
         c.   A person must, promptly and at its own expense, permanently
relocate its facilities in the public right-of- way if the placement or
location of the facilities interferes with an adjacent property’s connection to
a required utility. A required utility is municipal sewer service and/or a
municipal storm water service. The Village mandates connection to said required
utilities for the health, safety and welfare of the public, and such connection
shall not be considered to be substantially for the benefit of any person other
than the Village.
         d.   A person must, promptly and its own expense, permanently relocate
its facilities in the public right-of-way if the right-of-way is being widened
or altered for the public health, safety or welfare and the location of the
facilities interferes with such widening or alteration.
      2.   Temporary Relocation.
         a.   A person must, promptly and at its own expense, temporarily
protect, change or relocate its facilities in the right-of-way whenever the
Village, acting in its governmental capacity for the health, safety or public
welfare, requests such protection, change or relocation. If requested, the
person shall restore the right-of-way.
         b.   A person must, promptly and at its own expense, temporarily
protect, change or relocate its facilities in the public right-of-way if the
placement or location of the facilities interferes with an adjacent property’s
connection to a required utility. A required utility is municipal sewer service
and/or municipal storm water service. The Village mandates connection to said
required utilities for the health, safety and welfare of the public, and such
connection shall not be considered to be substantially for the benefit of any
person other than the Village.
   M.   Interference with Other Facilities during Municipal Construction.
      1.   When the Village performs work in the right-of-way and finds it
necessary to maintain, support, shore, or move a person’s facilities, the
Village shall notify the local representative. The person or its representative
shall meet with the Village’s representative within 24 hours and coordinate the
protection, maintenance, supporting and/or shoring of the person’s facilities.
The person shall accomplish the needed work within 72 hours, unless the Village
agrees to a longer period.
      2.   In the event that the person does not proceed to maintain, support,
shore or move its facilities, the Village may arrange to do the work and bill
the person, said bill to be paid within 30 days.
   N.   Abandoned Facilities.
      1.   Discontinued Operations. A person who has determined to discontinue
its operations in the Village must either:
         a.   Provide information satisfactory to the Public Works Manager that
the person’s obligations for its facilities under this Chapter have been
lawfully assumed by another person; or
         b.   Submit to the Public Works Manager a proposal and instruments for
dedication of its facilities to the Village. If a person proceeds under this
clause, the Village may, but shall not be required to:
            (1)   Accept the dedication for all or a portion of the facilities;
or
            (2)   Require the person, at its own expense, to remove the
facilities in the right-of-way at ground or above ground level; or
            (3)   Require the person to post a bond or provide payment
sufficient to reimburse the Village for reasonably anticipated costs to be
incurred in removing the facilities.
         c.   Notwithstanding the above, any person who has unusable and
abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove them from that right-of-
way within two years, unless the Village Board waives this requirement.
      2.   Abandoned Facilities. Facilities of a person who fails to comply
with subsection 1., and which, for two years, remains unused shall be deemed to
be abandoned. Abandoned facilities are deemed to be a nuisance. In addition, to
any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity the Village may, but shall
not be required to:
         a.   abate the nuisance and charge the cost of the abatement to the
person; or
         b.   take possession of the facilities; or
         c.   require removal of the facilities by the person, or the person’s
successor in interest.
      3.   Public Utilities. This subsection N shall not apply to a public
utility, as defined by Wis. Stat. s. 196.01(5), that is required to follow the
provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 196.81.
   O.   Reservation of Regulatory and Police Powers. The Village, by the
granting of a permit to excavate, obstruct and/or occupy the right-of-way under
this Chapter does not surrender or in any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen
the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or maybe hereafter granted to
the Village under the Constitution and statutes of the State of Wisconsin to
regulate the use of the right-of-way by the permittee; and the permittee by its
acceptance of a permit to excavate, obstruct and/or occupy the right-of-way
under this Chapter agrees that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory powers,
or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time
vested in or reserved to the Village, shall be in full force and effect and
subject to the regulatory and police powers of the Village to adopt and enforce
general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is
deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general law, and ordinances
enacted by the Village pursuant to such powers.
   P.   Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this Section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion
shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
   Q.   Penalty.
   Any person who violates this Section or fails to comply with the provisions
of this Section shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $120 nor more
than $600. Each day such violation or failure to comply continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
6-7. DRIVEWAY PERMITS, PROTECTION OF STREETS DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   Driveway Permits.
      1.   For the purpose of this section:
      “Driveway” means a private road, drive or roadway giving access from a
public street or highway to abutting grounds.
      “Highway” includes all public streets and roadways.
      “Highway under the jurisdiction of the Village” means a highway that is
not a state or county highway upon which the finish course of asphalt or
concrete has been placed.”
      2.    1 Application and Permit. No person may construct or install a
driveway in the Village without first filing an application with the Village
Clerk and receiving a permit therefore. The application must include driveway
plans showing the materials to be used, the location of the driveway on the lot
and a typical profile. Each application must receive the approval of the Public
Works Manager before the permit is issued.
         a.   For all driveways abutting public highways under the jurisdiction
of the Village, the Public Works Manager shall refer the application and plans
to the Zoning Administrator for review for conformance with the Planning and
Zoning Chapter. Upon the Zoning Administrator’s approval, the Public Works
Manager will review the proposed location and construction of the driveway and
may direct and order grading, ditching, soil stabilization measures and/or the
installation and construction of any culvert necessary for proper drainage as a
condition to issuing said permit. Any driveway constructed or installed without
said permit being first obtained, or contrary to the orders and directions of
the Public Works Manager or the terms of the permit, constitutes a violation of
this Chapter.
         b.   For all driveways abutting private roads or streets, the Public
Works Manager shall refer the application and plans to the Zoning Administrator
for review for conformance with the Planning and Zoning Chapter, and the Zoning
Administrator shall verify that the applicant has the approval of the party
with authority over the private street or road. Upon the Zoning Administrator’s
approval, the Public Works Manager will review the proposed location and
construction of the driveway and may direct and order grading, ditching, soil
stabilization measures and/or the installation and construction of any culvert
necessary for proper drainage as a condition to issuing said permit. Any
driveway constructed or installed without said permit being first obtained, or
contrary to the orders and directions of the Public Works Manager or the terms
of the permit, constitutes a violation of this Chapter. Unless construction
standards are provided under this Code or by development agreement or zoning
approval, the party with the authority over the private road or street is
required to set the construction standards and requirements for bonds, and
shall perform all inspections of the driveway construction.
         c   For all driveways abutting highways under the jurisdiction of
Racine County or the State of Wisconsin, the applicant shall apply for and
receive an access permit from the County or State prior to applying for a
Village driveway permit, and shall provide proof thereof with the driveway
permit application. The Public Works Manager shall refer the application and
driveway plans to the Zoning Administrator for review for conformance with the
Planning and Zoning Chapter. Upon the Zoning Administrator’s approval, the
Public Works Manager will review the conditions of the access permit issued by
the County or State, and may make appropriate orders regarding site drainage
prior to issuing the permit. Any driveway constructed or installed without said
permit being first obtained, or contrary to the orders and directions of the
Public Works Manager or the terms of the permit, constitutes a violation of
this Chapter.
      3.   All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced or extended
after the effective date of this Chapter are required to contain Apron End
Walls to provide adequate safety and drainage to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Manager.
      4.   All alteration of the plans approved in a driveway permit shall
require amendment of the permit.
   B.   Fees; Bonds
      1.   Permit Fees. The non-refundable fee for a driveway permit shall be
set by the Village Board and included in the Fee Schedule. The Board may set
varying permit fees for driveways abutting Village highways, private roads or
streets, and for those abutting state or county highways.
      2.   Bond 2 . A pavement bond of $5,000 is required for all driveways
that are used by heavy machinery and/or vehicles during construction on a
property where the driveway enters or exits a highway under the jurisdiction of
the Village.
         a.    The bond may be in the form of a cash deposit or surety bond
naming the Village of Rochester as the obligee, and must be deposited by the
property owner with the Village Clerk prior to the issuance of a driveway
permit.
         b.    The pavement bond shall be in addition to all other fees and
costs for required permits and approvals, and shall serve to ensure that the
public highways adjacent to the owner’s land are not damaged during the course
of construction.
         c.    The pavement bond shall remain on file with the Village until
one year after the occupancy permit is issued for the construction, provided
that the final grading and seeding on the lot is finished. If the final grading
and seeding on the lot is not finished one year after the occupancy permit is
issued, the bond shall remain in place until the final grading and seeding is
finished. A cash deposit shall be held in a Village account for the same period
of time and all interest shall accrue to the Village as reimbursement for
administrative costs related to the deposit. When released, the bond or cash
deposit will be delivered to the then-owner of the property at the time of the
release.
         d.    A pavement bond is not required for driveways directly accessing
agricultural land, provided, however, that the landowner shall maintain gravel
aprons for these driveways to the Public Works Manager’s specifications.
   C.   Driveway Aprons.
      1.   Prior to beginning any excavation or construction on a lot abutting
a highway under the Village’s jurisdiction, where no paved driveway apron
exists, the owner of the lot shall install a driveway apron. All construction
traffic for the lot shall be required to use said driveway apron for access to
the lot.
      2.   Specifications.
         a.   Permanent Driveway Apron. Except where a wider driveway is
required by the Village as set forth in
Chapter 35, Planning and Zoning, the permanent driveway apron for the property
shall be a minimum of 25 feet wide, shall consist of at least a four-inch depth
of asphaltic concrete when compacted, and shall extend from the edge of the
right-of-way to the edge of the pavement.
      b.   Driveway Apron during Construction. The property owner shall install
a temporary driveway apron during the period of construction which extends at
least a minimum of five feet from the edge of the highway pavement, consists of
at least a four-inch depth of asphaltic concrete when compacted, and which
shall be a minimum of 25 feet wide.
            (1)   A temporary driveway apron constructed of cement concrete may
be used during the length of construction, but must be removed and replaced
with asphaltic concrete prior to release of the pavement bond.
            (2)   If hot mix asphaltic concrete is not available during cold
weather construction, cold mix asphalt compacted to a four-inch thickness, or
temporary heavy metal plating at least one inch thick, covering the required
five-by-twenty-five-foot apron, may be used, provided that the permanent apron
must meet the requirements set forth in the introductory paragraph of
subsection 2.a.
      3.   In the event that a permanent driveway apron is damaged during
construction, the Public Works Manager may order its repair or replacement
prior to release of the pavement bond. In the event that a temporary driveway
apron is used during construction, it shall be replaced with a permanent apron
meeting the requirements of subsection 2.a. prior to release of the pavement
bond.
   D.   Inspections and Follow-up.
      1.   For driveways abutting State or County Highways, the Public Works
Manager will inspect the driveway upon notification by the owner that the
construction is complete. If the apron and/or the highway appear to have been
damaged during the course of construction, the Public Works Manager will notify
the appropriate state or county authority. If it appears that the driveway was
not constructed in substantial conformance with the approved plans, he will
notify the Zoning Administrator for enforcement of the provisions under the
Zoning Administrator’s jurisdiction.
      2.   For driveways abutting Village highways 3 , the Public Works Manager
will make two inspections of the driveway, apron and the public highway, the
first as soon as reasonably possible after notification by the owner that
construction is complete, and the second one year after the notification. If
the final grading and seeding is not complete one year after notification, the
Public Works Manager will perform a third inspection upon notification from the
property owner that the final grading and seeding is complete.
         a.    If the apron and/or the highway have been damaged during the
course of construction or grading, the Public Works Manager will order the
appropriate repair or replacement. If it appears that the driveway was not
constructed in substantial conformance with the approved plans, he will notify
the Zoning Administrator for enforcement of the provisions under the Zoning
Administrator’s jurisdiction.
         b.    In the event that the apron has been damaged, the owner shall
make the repairs to Village specifications as directed by the Public Works
Manager, and in the event that the owner fails to make such repairs within the
time required, the pavement bond shall be used by the Village to make the
repairs. In the event that the highway is damaged, the Village shall make the
repairs reasonably necessary, solely at the owner’s cost, and the pavement bond
shall be used by the Village to make the repairs.
         c.    One year after the initial notification by the owner, or after
the final grading and seeding is complete, whichever is later, if the entirety
of the pavement bond is not used for the repairs, the difference shall be
refunded or released to the then-current owner of the property. In the event
that the apron or highways have not been damaged, or the repairs are made by
the owner, the bond shall be refunded or released to the then-current owner.
         d.    In the event that repairs are performed by the Village and cost
more than the amount of the bond, the owner shall be billed for the balance,
and if the bill is not paid within 30 days, the bill shall become a lien on the
property and shall be collected as a special charge pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
66.0627.
         e.    If necessary, the Village Engineer will be consulted regarding
apron and/or highway damage, and the cost of the Engineer’s services shall be
the responsibility of the landowner. The bond may be used to reimburse the
Village for the Engineer’s services; or the owner may be billed for the
services and if the bill is not paid within 30 days, the bill shall become a
lien on the property and shall be collected as a special charge pursuant to
Wis. Stat. s. 66.0627.
   E.   Enforcement Authority.
      1.   The Building Inspector, the Public Works Manager, the Village
Engineer and the Zoning Administrator are authorized to issue Stop Work Orders
in the event of violation of this section. Notice is given by both posting upon
the land where the violation occurs one or more copies of a notice and order
stating the violation, and by mailing a copy of the notice and order by
certified mail to the person whose activity is in violation of this section.
The notice and order shall specify that the activity must cease immediately and
be brought into compliance. If any further construction occurs without proper
compliance, the property owner may be subject to a forfeiture of up to $500 for
each day of violation, subject to such additional penalties and remedies as are
described in Section
6-50 of this Chapter.
   2.   The Building Inspector, Public Works Manager, Village Engineer and
Zoning Administrator are authorized to refer any violation of this section or
of any stop work order issued pursuant to this section to the village attorney
or district attorney for commencement of further legal proceedings.
   3.   The issuance of a stop work order under this section may be appealed to
the Village Board within 30 days of the issuance of the order.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 5-2-2022)
 
Notes
1 1 Amended by Ordinance 2016-8, Adopted 12-12-16
2 2 Ordinance 2016-6, Adopted 6-27-16
3 3 Ordinance 2016-6, Adopted 6.27.16
6-50. PENALTIES.
   In addition to any specific penalty set forth in this Chapter, any person
who violates any provision of this Chapter, or who fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with any provision of this Chapter, or who knowingly makes any
material false statement or knowing omission in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be subject to any and all of the
following penalties:
   A.   Upon conviction, pay a forfeiture as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Each day a violation exists or continues is
considered a separate offense under this Chapter.
   B.   The Village Board may seek injunctive relief from a court of record to
enjoin further violations.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this section, the cost of
abatement of any violation of this section may be collected as set forth herein
from the owner of the real estate or the person who violated this Chapter.
CHAPTER 7 PUBLIC PEACE, HEALTH AND WELFARE
7-1. HUMAN HEALTH HAZARDS.
   The Village Board of the Village of Rochester has, by adoption of this
section, confirmed the specific statutory authority, powers, and duties noted
in this section and has established by this section, regulations, controls and
enforcement against uses, activities, businesses and operations by persons that
may cause a human health hazard.
   A.   Definitions. As used in this Section, the following terms have the
meanings set forth:
   “Human Health Hazard” means a substance, activity or condition that is known
to have the potential to cause acute or chronic illness or death if exposure to
the substance, activity or condition is not abated.
   “Vector” means a carrier, including an arthropod or an insect, that
transfers an infective agent from one host to another.
   “Dwelling” means any structure, all or part of which is designed or used for
human habitation.
   “Owner” means a person who has legal title to a building or a person who has
charge, care of or control of a dwelling or unit of a dwelling as an agent,
executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of a person.
   B.   Restrictions. No person shall cause, allow or permit any person to
create any human health hazard on premises owned, leased or controlled by that
person in the Village of Rochester. Human Health Hazard control or health
protections for the community include the following, but should not be
construed to exclude other public nuisances affecting public health in the
Village of Rochester:
      1.   Control of rats, stray animals, noise, rabies and other diseases.
      2.   Control of wild life, including the keeping of wild animals, disease
transmission and eradication.
      3.   Pest control, including community sanitation, rodent and vector
control and safe pesticide use.
   C.   Public Places. The owner and occupant and everyone in charge of a
public building, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.01(12), shall keep the
building clean and sanitary.
   D.   Beaches. The health department shall close or restrict swimming,
diving, and recreational bathing if a human health hazard exists in any area
used for those purposes on a body of water and on associated land and shall
require the posting of the area.
   E.   Buildings. The health department may declare a dilapidated building
area where old or dilapidated buildings, structures and equipment are allowed
to stand while they are dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or uninhabitable, to be
a human health hazard.
   F.   Abatement on private premises/property. If the health officer finds a
human health hazard, the officer shall order the abatement or removal of the
human health hazard within a reasonable time period. The health officer shall
notify the owner by registered mail with return receipt requested, of the
presence of the human health hazard and order its removal within 30 days or
less of the receipt of the notice. If it is not removed by that date, the
health officer shall immediately enter the property and remove the hazard or
may contract to have the work performed. The hazard shall be removed in a
manner which is approved by the health officer.
   G.   Cost of Abatement. The cost of the abatement of a human health hazard
may be recovered from the person permitting the violation. It may also be paid
by the Village Treasurer and filed with the Village Clerk, who shall collect
the cost as a special tax pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 254.59.
7-2. VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   A.   Definition. The term “property”, wherever used in this Section, unless
otherwise stated, shall include the real estate, grounds, buildings, waters and
any other property which may be under the control or jurisdiction of the
Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin.
   B.   Adoption of Rules and Regulations. The Village Board may hereafter
adopt by resolution all necessary rules and regulations not in conflict with
the laws of the State or the resolutions or ordinances of the Village for the
government, management and control and improvement of all public property under
the jurisdiction of the Village of Rochester and to secure the quiet, orderly
and peaceable use and enjoyment of the people.
   C.   Prohibited Actions. The following actions are prohibited on or in
Village property without the approval of the Village Board or a person
authorized by the Village Board:
      1.   No person shall remove, destroy, break, injure, mutilate, or deface
in any way any structure, monument, statue, vase, fountain, wall, fence,
railing, vehicle, bench, tree, shrub, fern, plant, or flower.
      2.   No person shall drive, ride, or push any motorcycle, motor vehicle,
all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, truck, wagon, horse, or any vehicle or animal
in or on any part of the property.
      3.   No person shall place, build, or create any fire on Village
property.
      4.   No person shall bring or permit a dog, cat, or other animal on any
Village property at any time (except a service animal).
      5.   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any
loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others.
      6.   No person shall have in his possession uncased firearms, bows, or
crossbows.
      7.   No person is permitted to remain in or on any Village property
between 10:00 p.m. and sunrise.
      8.   No person shall place any straw, dirt, chips, paper, shavings,
shells, ashes, or other rubbish, even though not offensive to health, in or
upon Village property.
7-3. [Reserved]
7-4. PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. See
Chapter 4 of this Municipal Code.
7-5. SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   A.   The Village of Rochester adopts Wis. Stat. s. 101.123 as though fully
set forth herein, in order to protect the health and comfort of the public,
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 101.123(4m). The prohibition against smoking in
enclosed places set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 101.123, effective on July 5, 2010,
includes, but is not limited to, smoking in enclosed public places, places of
employment, day care centers, educational facilities, theaters, restaurants,
taverns, private clubs, retail establishments, common areas of certain
multiple-unit residential properties, lodging establishments, and Village
buildings. The statute also imposes responsibilities of persons in charge of
the listed sites, requiring that persons in charge may not allow smoking, and
providing that the persons in charge must make reasonable efforts to prohibit
persons from smoking in those sites by posting signs, refusing to serve persons
who are smoking in restaurants, taverns and private clubs, asking persons to
refrain from smoking or leave the premises, and notifying law enforcement of
violations if persons refuse to leave the premises.
   B.   Penalties.
      1.   The penalty for smoking in a prohibited place is as set forth in
Wis. Stat. s. 101.123(2), adopted herein.
      2.   The penalty for a violation by a person in charge for failure to
perform a required responsibility of a person in charge is as set forth in Wis.
Stat. ss. 101.123(2m)(b) to (d), adopted herein.
7-6. RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OR GIFT OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   A.   The Village of Rochester adopts Wis. Stat. s. 134.66 as though fully
set forth herein, in strict conformity with the statute. Wis. Stat. s. 134.66
includes restrictions on the sale, or provision for nominal or no
consideration, of cigarettes or tobacco products to persons under the age of 18
years of age; the provision of cigarettes or tobacco products for nominal or no
consideration in certain places; the sale of cigarettes or tobacco products
from vending machines; required signage; and defenses that may be presented.
   B.   The penalty for a violation of Wis. Stat. s. 134.66, is as set forth
therein and set forth on the Village Deposit Schedule. The maximum forfeiture
and cigarette license suspension set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 134.66(4), as
adopted herein, shall be imposed for second and subsequent offenses within one
year.
   C.    See also s.
9-4 of this Municipal Code.
7-7. PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY PERSON UNDER
18 PROHIBITED.
   A.   The Village of Rochester adopts Wis. Stat. s. 254.92, as though fully
set forth herein, in strict conformity with the statute. Wis. Stat. s. 254.92
includes restrictions that provide that no person under the age of 18 years of
age may falsely represent his or her age for the purpose of receiving any
cigarette or tobacco product; no person under the age of 18 years of age may
purchase, attempt to purchase or possess any cigarette or tobacco product
except in certain limited circumstances; no person may purchase cigarettes or
tobacco products on behalf of, or to provide to, any person who is under 18
years of age; and that a law enforcement officer shall seize any cigarette or
tobacco product that has been sold to and is in the possession of a person
under 18 years of age.
   B.   Penalties.
      1.   Any person who is convicted of violating the provisions of Wis.
Stat. s. 254.92(2m) (purchase on behalf of, or to provide to, a person under 18
years of age), as adopted herein, shall be subject to the penalties provided
therein and set forth in the Village’s deposit schedule.
      2.   Any person who is convicted of violating any of the remainder of the
provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 254.92, as adopted herein, shall be subject to
forfeitures as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
7-8. INJURY TO PROPERTY BY DOGS OR CATS.
   A.   Damage to Property. No person shall permit any dog or cat owned or kept
by such person, nor shall any person permit any dog or cat under such person’s
management and control, to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or private lands or
premises without the permission of the property owner, or break, bruise, tear
up, crush or injure, any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree, or garden in any
manner, or to defecate thereon.
   B.   Animal Waste. No person shall permit any dog or cat owned or kept by
such person, nor shall any person permit any dog or cat under such person’s
management and control to be on any public or private property, not owned or
possessed by any such person, unless he or she has a device to scoop up
excrement and an appropriate depository to put such excrement in. This shall
not apply to visually handicapped persons.
   C.   Penalties. In addition to the penalties set forth in s.
7-50 below, also see s.
9-1.B. of this Municipal Code.
7-9. STREET OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall place in or upon any public street of the Village of
Rochester, within the platted limits of such street, any rubbish, debris or
noxious or offensive matter, nor shall any such person place, erect or maintain
within the platted limits of any such public street any obstruction whatsoever.
7-10. SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the collection,
dumping, and disposal of solid waste, sludge and recyclable materials by any
person within the Village of Rochester. Because of the possible danger to the
health, safety and welfare of the public, and the incumbent need to recycle
reusable materials, such collection, dumping or disposal shall only be
permitted under the terms and conditions set forth herein. In addition, this
section in intended to promote recycling, composting, and resource recovery
through the administration of an effective recycling program, as provided in
Wis. Stat. s. 287.11 and Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 544.
   B.   Statutory Authority. This section is adopted as authorized under Wis.
Stat. ss. 61.34 and 287.09(3)(b).
   C.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this section shall be held to be the minimum requirements and shall not be
deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by the Wisconsin
Statutes. Where any terms or requirements of this section may be inconsistent
or conflicting, the more restrictive requirements or interpretation shall
apply. Where a provision of this section is required by Wisconsin Statutes, or
by a standard in Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 544, and where the section provision
is unclear, the provision shall be interpreted in light of the Wisconsin
Statutes and the Chapter NR 544 standards in effect on the date of the adoption
of this ordinance, or in effect on the date of the most recent text amendment
to this ordinance.
   D.   Definitions. For the purpose of this Section:
   “Bi-metal container” means a container for beverages that is made primarily
of a combination of steel and aluminum.
   “Collector” means the persons or entity specifically authorized by the
Village Board to collect waste and recyclable materials and to dispose of the
same.
   “Container board” means corrugated paperboard used in the manufacture of
shipping containers and related products.
   “Dumping or disposal” includes, but is not limited to, unloading, throwing
away, discarding, emptying, abandoning, discharging, or burying solid waste,
recyclables, or sludge into or under any property or lands, whether publicly or
privately owned within the Village of Rochester.
   “Foam polystyrene packaging” means packaging made primarily from foam
polystyrene that satisfies one of the following criteria:
      1.   Is designed for serving food or beverages.
      2.   Consists of loose particles intended to fill space and cushion the
packaged article in a shipping container.
      3.   Consists of rigid materials shaped to hold and cushion the packaged
article in a shipping container.
   “HDPE” means high density polythylene, labeled by the SPI code # 2.
   “Heavy object” means household furniture or other large item.
   “LDPE” means low density polythylene, labeled by the SPI code # 4.
   “Magazines” means magazines and other materials printed on similar paper.
   “Major appliance” means a residential or commercial air conditioner, clothes
dryer, clothes washer, dishwasher, freezer, microwave oven, oven, refrigerator,
furnace, boiler, dehumidifier, water heater or stove.
   “Multiple-family dwelling” means a property containing five or more
residential units, including those which are occupied seasonally.
   “Newspaper” means a newspaper and other materials printed on newsprint.
   “Non-collectible items” are any items in this section that are listed as
non-collectible and include, but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Concrete and construction materials.
      2.   Stumps, earth and rock.
      3.   Stones or concrete blocks.
      4.   Fuel tanks of any type.
      5.   Thirty gallon and fifty-five gallon drums.
      6.   Tires, unless specifically included in contract with the Village
collector.
      7.   Yard waste.
   “Non-residential facilities and properties” means commercial, retail,
industrial, institutional and government facilities and properties. This term
does not include multiple family dwellings. A non-residential facility or
property is a business producing more than four thirty-gallon bags of solid
waste per week.
   “Office paper” means high grade printing and writing papers from offices in
nonresidential facilities and properties. Printed white ledger and computer
printout are examples of office paper generally accepted as high grade. This
term does not include industrial process waste.
   “Other resins or multiple resins” means plastic resins labeled by the SPI
code # 7.
   “Person” includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
local government unit as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0131(1)(a), state agency
or authority, or federal agency.
   “PETE” means polythylene terephthalate, labeled by the SPI code # 1.
   “Plastic container” means an individual, separate, rigid plastic bottle,
can, jar or carton, except for a blister pack, that is originally used to
contain a product that is the subject of a retail sale.
   “Postconsumer waste” means solid waste other than solid waste generated in
the production of goods, hazardous waste, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 291.01
(7), waste from construction and demolition of structures, scrap automobiles,
or high-volume industrial waste, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 289.01(17).
   “PP” means polypropylene, labeled by the SPI code # 5.
   “PS” means polystyrene, labeled by the SPI code # 6.
   “PVC” means polyvinyl chloride, labeled by the SPI code # 3.
   “Recyclable materials” includes lead acid batteries; major appliances; waste
oil; yard waste; aluminum containers; corrugated paper or other container
board; foam polystyrene packaging; glass containers; magazines; newspaper;
office paper; rigid plastic containers, including those made of PETE, HDPE,
PVC, LDPE, PP, PS and other resins or multiple resins; steel containers; waste
tires; and bi-metal containers.
   “Residential units” are defined to include single family and two to four
family homes, duplexes and apartments.
   “Sludge” is sewage treatment residue in any form whatsoever, whether solid,
semi-solid or liquid which has been processed or treated in any way, form or
manner.
   “Small business” means a business producing a maximum of four thirty-gallon
bags of solid waste a week. Small businesses are considered as residential
units eligible for collection under this section, unless the owner or operator
thereof contracts for collection as required for non- residential facilities
and properties.
   “Solid waste” has the meaning specified in Wis. Stat. s. 289.01(33).
   “Solid waste facility” has the meaning specified in Wis. Stat. s. 289.01
(35).
   “Solid waste treatment” means any method, technique or process which is
designed to change the physical, chemical or biological character or
composition of solid waste.
   “Treatment” includes incineration.
   “Waste tire” means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   “Yard waste” means leaves, grass clippings, yard and garden debris and
brush, including clean woody vegetative material no greater than six inches in
diameter. This term does not include stumps, roots or shrubs with intact root
balls.
   E.   Conformance with Regulations Required. No person may dump or dispose of
any solid waste, recyclable or other item set forth in this section in the
Village except as set forth herein. No person may spread sludge without a
permit from the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
   F.   Mandatory Collection.
      1.   The Village Board requires that all residential units in the Village
of Rochester shall receive weekly waste and recyclable materials collection by
the collector the Village Board selects. Non-residential facilities and
properties, multiple family dwellings, and persons doing remodeling and new
construction projects shall contract for collection or otherwise arrange for
disposal in accordance with this section and state law at their own expense.
The Village may, but is not required to, provide collection for condominiums
consisting of five or more dwelling units.
      2.   Small businesses may be considered residential units. A business
that meets the definition of a “small business” set forth in this Section may
be considered a residential unit for purposes of solid waste and recyclable
materials collection.
      3.   All non-residential facilities and properties that use their own
private contractor, not contracted by the Village of Rochester, must provide
for solid waste and recyclable collection as set forth in this Section and in
conformance with State law at their own expense.
   G.   Garbage Containers.
      1.   Garbage Containers. Every garbage container used in the Village
shall be metal or metal- lined or of plastic and water-tight with a fly-tight
and water-tight metal or plastic cover. Such containers shall be kept securely
covered except when depositing materials therein or removing the contents
therefrom. Garbage cans must be vermin proof and kept in sanitary condition.
      2.   No person shall place on any street or sidewalk any receptacle for
the deposit of solid waste, ashes, swill, garbage or refuse when such placement
will be injurious to public health, will create a public nuisance or will
obstruct any sidewalk or street so as to interfere with the use of the same by
the public.
      3.   Requirements for Collection of Solid Waste by Village Collector.
Solid waste and heavy objects shall be placed at the curb for collection in the
manner described in this section.
         a.   All containers, inclusive of contents, shall not exceed 70
pounds. Garbage containers shall not have a capacity of greater than 40 gallons
regardless of weight or contents. All containers shall be equipped with handles
and tight covers.
         b.   Clear plastic biodegradable bags are allowed if tied securely and
not so loaded as to break or spill if lifted.
         c.   Lumber shall be less than four feet in length, tied in bundles
and shall not exceed 70 pounds per bundle.
   H.   Recyclable Materials.
      1.   Separation of Recyclable Materials.
         a.   Occupants of single family and two to four unit residences,
multiple-family dwellings and non-residential facilities and properties shall
separate the following materials from postconsumer waste:
            (1)   Lead acid batteries
            (2)   Major appliances
            (3)   Waste oil
            (4)   Yard waste
            (5)   Aluminum containers
            (6)   Bi-metal containers
            (7)   Corrugated paper or other container board
            (8)   Foam polystyrene packaging
            (9)   Glass containers
            (10)   Magazines
            (11)   Newspaper
            (12)   Office paper
            (13)   Rigid plastic containers made of PETE, HDPE, PVC, LDPE, PP,
PS, and other resins or multiple resins
            (14)   Steel containers
            (15)   Waste tires
         b.   Separation Requirements Exempted. The separation requirements of
s. H.1.a. do not apply to the following:
            (1)   Occupants of single family and two to four unit residences,
multiple-family dwellings and non-residential facilities and properties that
send their postconsumer waste to a processing facility licensed by the
Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources that recovers the materials specified
in s. H.1.a. from solid waste in as pure a form as is technically feasible.
            (2)   Solid waste which is burned as a supplement fuel at a
facility if less than 30% of the heat input to the facility is derived from the
solid waste burned as supplement fuel.
            (3)   A recyclable material specified in s. H.1.a.(5) through (15)
for which a variance has been granted by the Department of Natural Resources
under the Wisconsin Statutes or the Wisconsin Administrative Code.
      2.   Preparation and Care of Separated Recyclable Materials. To the
greatest extent practicable, the recyclable materials separated in accordance
with this Section shall be clean and kept free of contaminants such as food or
product residue, oil or grease, or other non-recyclable materials, including
but not limited to household hazardous waste, medical waste, and agricultural
chemical containers. Containers and instructions for preparing recyclable
materials shall be provided to residents. Recyclable materials shall be stored
in a manner which protects them from wind, rain, and other inclement weather
conditions. Recyclable materials shall be prepared for collection and placed in
Village approved containers for collection in the manner described below:
         a.   Aluminum, bi-metal and steel containers shall be rinsed and
placed in the recycling container.
         b.   Glass containers shall be unbroken, rinsed, and placed in the
recycling container.
         c.   Office paper, newspaper, magazines, corrugated paper and other
container board shall be placed in the recycling container in accordance with
the collector’s instructions.
         d.   Rigid plastic containers shall be rinsed and placed inside the
recycling container.
         e.   Waste auto tires shall be placed at the curbside on the regular
recycling day. Waste truck and tractor tires shall be cut in four equal pieces
and placed at the curbside on the regular recycling day. No more than one tire
per household per week shall be placed for recycling.
         f.   Foam polystyrene packaging shall be placed pursuant to the
collector’s instructions.
      3.   Management of Lead Acid Batteries, Major Appliances, Waste Oil, Yard
Waste and Heavy Objects. Occupants of properties for which recycling is
collected by the Village collector shall manage lead acid batteries, major
appliances, waste oil, yard waste and heavy objects as follows:
         a.   Lead acid auto batteries will be collected and disposed of by the
Village collector and shall be placed at the curbside on the regular collection
day pursuant to the instructions of the Village collector.
         b.   Major Appliances including those with containing refrigerants,
such as refrigerators and air conditioners, but not including commercial
refrigeration units, shall be placed at the curbside on the regular collection
day pursuant to the instructions of the Village collector.
         c.   Waste oil, antifreeze and oil filters will be collected and
disposed of by the Village collector and shall be placed at the curbside on the
regular collection day if the Village’s contract with the collector includes
provisions for the collection of waste oil. These items shall be placed
pursuant to the instructions of the Village collector.
            (1)   In the event that the Village’s collector does not collect
waste oil, residents and occupants must take waste oil to an approved waste oil
depot, such as the Racine County Garage oil depot on County Highway FF, west of
the Village.
            (2)   Individual waste oil depots are not allowed in the Village.
         d.   Yard Waste will not be collected. Residents and occupants shall
either:
            (1)   Pay a private contractor for removal; or
            (2)   Compost the yard debris in their personal compost pile, to be
located in back of property, not to be near the street, and not to be a
nuisance to neighboring properties.
      4.   Heavy Objects. Residents or entities wishing to have heavy objects
and household furniture pickup should put them at curbside on the designated
collection day pursuant to the instructions of the Village collector.
      5.   Disposition of Non-collectible Items. Non-collectible items will not
be picked up in either the regular solid waste collection program, the
recyclable materials program, or the heavy object collection program. Non-
collectible items include, but are not limited to, loose construction or
remodeling materials, household hazardous waste, and commercial refrigeration
units. Persons or entities may contact the collector for advice on how to
dispose of non- collectible items.
   I.   Responsibilities of Owners or Designated Agents of Multiple-Family
Dwellings.
      1.   Owners or designated agents of multiple-family dwellings shall do
all of the following to recycle the materials specified in ss. H.1.a.(5)
through (15):
         a.   Provide adequate, separate containers for the recyclable
materials.
         b.   Notify tenants in writing at the time of renting or leasing the
dwelling and at least semi- annually thereafter about the established recycling
program.
         c.   Provide for the collection of the materials separated from the
solid waste by the tenants and the delivery of the materials to a recycling
facility.
         d.   Notify tenants of reasons to reduce and recycle solid waste,
which materials are collected, how to prepare the materials in order to meet
the processing requirements, collection methods or sites, locations and hours
of operation, and a contact person or company, including a name, address and
telephone number.
      2.   The requirements specified in s. I.1. do not apply to the owners or
designated agents of multiple-family dwellings if the postconsumer waste
generated within the dwelling is treated at a processing facility licensed by
the Department of Natural Resources that recovers for recycling the materials
specified in ss. H.1.a(5) through (15) from solid waste in as pure a form as is
technically feasible.
   J.   Responsibilities of Owners or Designated Agents of Non-Residential
Facilities and Properties.
      1.   Owners or designated agents of non-residential facilities and
properties shall do all of the following to recycle the materials specified in
ss. H.1.a(5) through (15):
         a.   Provide adequate, separate containers for the recyclable
materials. The owners of these establishments shall be required to sort through
items that the general public places into containers intended for garbage, but
which should be in recyclable containers.
         b.   Notify in writing, at least semi-annually, all users, tenants and
occupants of the properties about the established recycling program.
         c.   Provide for the collection of the materials separated from the
solid waste by the users, tenants and occupants and the delivery of the
materials to a recycling facility.
         d.   Notify users, tenants and occupants of reasons to reduce and
recycle, which materials are collected, how to prepare materials in order to
meet the processing requirements, collection methods or sites, locations and
hours of operation, and a contact person or company, including a name, address
and telephone number.
      2.   The requirements specified in s. J.1. do not apply to the owners or
designated agents of non-residential facilities and properties if the
postconsumer waste generated within the facility or property is treated at a
processing facility licensed by the Department of Natural Resources that
recovers for recycling the materials specified in ss. H.1.a(5) through (15)
from solid waste in as pure a form as is technically feasible.
   K.   Prohibitions on Disposal of Recyclable Materials Separated for
Recycling.
   No person may dispose of in a solid waste disposal facility or burn in a
solid waste treatment facility any of the materials specified in ss. H.1.a(5)
through (15) which have been separated for recycling, except waste tires may be
burned with energy recovery in a solid waste treatment facility.
   L.   Pick up of Materials.
      1.   All containers shall be placed at the curb edge by 6:00 a.m. on
scheduled collection day. No containers shall be placed at curb edge prior to
24 hours before collection day, and shall be removed within 24 hours of
collection.
      2.   Containers shall be placed as close to the edge of the street as
possible.
      3.   Containers shall be placed away from mail boxes to allow for mail
delivery.
      4.   The owner or occupant at each residence is responsible for all
refuse and recycling until it is picked up by the collector.
   M.   Collection by Unauthorized Persons. From the time of placement of
recyclable materials at the collection point for collection by the Village of
Rochester or its authorized agent(s) in accordance with the terms herein,
recyclable materials shall be the property of the Village of Rochester or its
authorized agent(s). It shall be a violation of this section for any person not
authorized by the Village of Rochester to collect or pick up or cause to be
collected or picked up any such recyclable materials. Any and each such
collection in violation hereof from any recyclable material, at the curb for
collection, shall constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as
hereinafter provided.
   N.   Any person who places solid waste, yard waste, recyclables, heavy
objects, or non- collectible items on the property of another or on public
property anywhere within the Village of Rochester limits shall be subject to
the penalty as set forth in this section.
   O.   Recordkeeping of Recycling and Refuse Collection. The Village, in
accordance with the Wisconsin Administrative Code, shall require the contracted
refuse/ recyclable collectors to provide such statements pertaining to tonnage
collected as are required by law. Further, such statements as are required by
law shall be provided by the Village Clerk to the Wisconsin Department of
Natural Resources or other body.
   P.   Enforcement.
      1.   For the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of
this section, any authorized officer, employee or representative of the Village
of Rochester may inspect recyclable materials separated for recycling,
postconsumer waste intended for disposal, recycling collection sites and
facilities, collection vehicles, collection areas of multiple-family dwellings
and non-residential facilities and properties, and any records relating to
recycling activities, which shall be kept confidential when necessary to
protect proprietary information. No person may refuse access to any authorized
officer, employee or authorized representative of the Village of Rochester who
requests access for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate
credentials. No person may obstruct, hamper, or interfere with such an
inspection.
      2.   Refusal of Service. The collector shall refuse to furnish collection
service to any person not complying with, or refusing to comply with this
section for the collection of solid waste and the separation of recyclable
materials. Incorrectly prepared materials shall be left at the curb. Continued
non-compliance may result in penalties as set forth in this section.
      3.   Any person who violates a provision of this section may be issued a
citation by the Village of Rochester to collect forfeitures. Each day a
violation continues is a new offense. The issuance of a citation shall not
preclude proceeding under any other ordinance or law relating to the same or
any other matter. Proceeding under any other ordinance or law relating to the
same or any other matter shall not preclude the issuance of a citation under
this section.
      4.   Penalties for violating this Section are as set forth in s.
7-50 provided that the maximum penalty for a third or subsequent violation of
s.
7-10.K. is $2000, and the maximum penalty for any other violation of this
Section is $1,000.
7-11. LITTERING.
   A.   No person shall cause to be deposited, or shall permit the accumulation
of, bottles or glass, cans, nails, wire, tin, iron scrap, paper, stones, dirt
spillage, grass, wood chips or wood, tree branches, leaves or any other rubbish
or waste material in, along, or upon any street, alley way, bridge, sidewalk,
river, river bank, within any park, or upon any public grounds or thoroughfare,
or upon the property of another within the Village.
   B.   No person shall place in or upon the Fox River within the corporate
limits of the Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin, any refuse,
rubbish or debris.
   C.   Each violation of this ordinance shall subject the violator to
liability for penalties as set forth in s.
7-50 hereof. 1
 
Notes
1 1 Adopted 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
7-12. NOXIOUS WEEDS, NATURAL LAWNS AND GRASS CUTTING  2 .
   A. Noxious Weeds.
      1.   The Village Clerk shall annually, on or before May 15, publish as
set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0407 a notice that every person is required by
law to destroy all noxious weeds on lands in the Village which he/she owns,
occupies or controls. A joint notice with other towns or municipalities may be
utilized.
      2.   If the owner or occupant neglects to destroy any weeds as required
by such notice, then the Weed Commissioner of the Village shall give five days'
written notice, by mail with delivery confirmation, to the owner or occupant of
any lands upon which the weeds are growing to the effect that said Weed
Commissioner, after the expiration of the five-day period, may proceed to
destroy or cause to be destroyed all such weeds growing upon said lands and
that the cost thereof will be assessed as a special charge upon the lands upon
which such weeds are located under the provisions of Wis. Stat. ss. 66.0517 or
66.0627. If the owner or occupant does not comply with the five-day notice,
then the Weed Commissioner may destroy such weeds or cause them to be destroyed
as set forth in subsections C.7.a. and b.
      3.   As provided for in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0407, the Village requires that
all noxious weeds be destroyed prior to the time in which such plants would
mature to the bloom or flower state. The growth of noxious weeds in excess of
twelve inches in height from the ground surface shall be prohibited within the
Village corporate limits. Noxious weeds shall include any weed, noxious grass
or similar plant growth that, if allowed to pollinate, would cause or produce
hay fever in human beings or would cause a skin rash through contact with the
skin.
      4.   Definitions.
         a.   Noxious weeds are defined to include, but shall not be limited to
the following:
Cirsium arvense (Canada thistle)
Ambrosia artemisiifolia (common ragweed)
Ambrosia trifida (great ragweed)
Euphorbia esula (leafy spurge)
Convolvulus arvensis (creeping jenny) (field bind weed)
Tragopogon dubius (goat’s beard)
Rhus radicans (poison ivy)
Cirsium vulgaris (bull thistle)
Pastinaca sativa (wild parsnip)
Arctium minus (burdock)
Xanthium strumarium (cocklebur)
Amatanthus retroflexus (pigweed)
Chenopodium album (common lambsquarter)
Rumex crispus (curled dock)
Cannabis sativa (hemp)
Plantago lanceolate (English Plantain)
         b.   Noxious grasses are defined to include, but shall not be limited
to, the following:
Agrostis alba (red top)
Sorghum halepense (Johnson)
Setaria (foxtail)
Toxicodendron diversilobum (poison oak)
         c.   Noxious weeds also include the following plants and other rank
growth of vegetation:
Ragweed or Thistles
Smartweed
Any weed, noxious grass or similar plant growth that, if allowed to pollinate,
would cause or produce hay fever in human beings or would cause a skin rash
through contact with the skin.
   B. Natural Lawns.
      1.   Definitions.
      “Lawn” means an area of short, mown grass in a yard or on other property.
      “Natural Lawn” includes common species of grass and wildflowers native to
North America that are designed and purposely cultivated to exceed eight inches
in height from the ground. Specifically excluded in natural lawns are the
noxious grasses and weeds identified in subsection A.4. of this Section.
      “Natural Lawn Management Plan” means a written plan relating to the
management and maintenance of a lawn upon which the planted grass will exceed
eight inches in length, a statement of intent and purpose for the lawn, a
detailed description of the vegetation types, plants and plant succession
involved, and the specific management and maintenance techniques to be
employed.
      “Neighboring Property Owners” means all those property owners who are
located within 300 feet of the proposed natural lawn site.
      “Property Owner” includes the legal titleholder and/or the beneficial
owner of any such lot according to most current tax records.
      2.   Natural lawns restricted. Natural lawns on lots of less than two
acres are prohibited, and all lawns on those lots must be kept cut as set forth
in sections A and C. On lots two acres or more in size, the growth of a natural
lawn in excess of eight inches in height from the ground surface is prohibited
within the Village corporate limits unless a natural lawn management plan is
approved and a permit is issued by the Village as set forth in this section.
Natural lawns shall not contain litter or debris and shall not harbor
undesirable wildlife.
      3.   Natural lawn management plan.
         a.   Property owners of lots that are two acres or more who wish to
plant and cultivate a natural lawn must submit their written plan and related
information on the form provided by the Village. Natural lawn management plans
shall only indicate the planting and cultivating of natural lawns on property
legally owned by the property owner. Applicants are strictly prohibited from
developing a natural lawn on any Village-owned property, including street
rights-of-way. This shall include, at a minimum, property located between the
sidewalk and the street, or a strip not less than 10 feet adjacent to the
street where there is no sidewalk, whether the area is under public or private
ownership. In addition, natural lawns shall not be permitted within 10 feet of
the abutting property owner's property, unless waived in writing by the
abutting property owner on the side so affected. Such waiver is to be affixed
to the natural lawn management plan.
         b.   Any subsequent property owner who abuts an approved natural lawn
may revoke the waiver, thereby requiring the owner of the natural lawn to
remove the natural lawn that is located in the ten-foot section abutting the
neighboring property owner. Such revocation shall be put in writing and
presented to the Village Clerk by the subsequent abutting property owner. Upon
receiving the written request to revoke the original waiver, the Village shall
contact the owner of the approved natural lawn and direct the owner to remove
the natural lawn located in the ten-foot section abutting the neighboring
property owner. The Village Board shall revise the approved natural lawn
management plan accordingly. The owner of the approved natural lawn shall be
required to remove the ten-foot section abutting the neighboring property owner
within 20 days of receipt of the written notification from the Village,
provided that the notification is received sometime beginning May 1 and ending
November 1. Property owners who receive notification from the Village between
November 1 and April 30 shall be required to remove the ten-foot section
abutting the neighboring property owner no later than May 20 following receipt
of the notification.
         c.    Application process.
            (1)   Property owners interested in applying for permission to
establish a natural lawn must obtain and complete an application form available
from the Village Clerk. The completed application shall include a natural lawn
management plan. Upon submitting a completed application, a nonrefundable
filing fee set by the Village Board and set forth in the fee schedule will be
assessed by the Village. Along with the application, the applicant shall submit
letters from at least 51% of the owners of property situated wholly or in part
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the property for which the application is
made indicating no objection to the applicant’s natural lawn.
            (2)   If the property owner's application is in full compliance
with the natural lawn management plan requirements and the requirements of
subsection (1), the Village Clerk shall issue permission to install a natural
lawn. The Clerk shall deny applications that do not meet the requirements. The
initial permit is valid for two years, and must be reapplied for every two
years until 75 percent of the intended grasses or plants are established and
growing or the Weed Commissioner determines that the natural lawn is well
established. Once this standard is met, the permit shall be considered
perpetual, unless the permit is revoked pursuant to subsection B.5. of this
Section.
            (3)   Application for appeal. The property owner may appeal the
Village Clerk's decision to deny the natural lawn permit request to the Village
Board at an open meeting. All applications for appeal shall be submitted within
15 calendar days of the notice of denial of the natural lawn permit. The
decision rendered by the Village Board shall be final and binding.
      4.   Safety precautions for natural grass areas.
         a.   When, in the opinion of the Fire Chief or Fire Inspector of the
Fire Department serving the Village of Rochester, the presence of a natural
lawn may constitute a fire or safety hazard due to weather and/or other
conditions, the Fire Chief or Fire Inspector may order the cutting of natural
lawns to a safe condition. As a condition of receiving approval of the natural
lawn permit, the property owner shall be required to cut the natural lawn
within three days upon receiving written direction from the Fire Chief or Fire
Inspector.
         b.   Natural lawns shall not be removed through the process of
burning, unless stated and approved as one of the management and maintenance
techniques in the natural lawn management plan. The Fire Chief or Fire
Inspector shall review all requests to burn natural lawns and shall determine
if circumstances are correct and all applicable requirements have been
fulfilled to ensure public safety. Burning of natural lawns shall be strictly
prohibited unless a written permit to burn is issued by the Fire Inspector. The
Fire Inspector shall establish a written list of requirements for considering
each request to burn natural lawns, thereby ensuring the public safety. In
addition, the property owner requesting permission to burn the natural lawn
shall produce evidence of property damage and liability insurance identifying
the Village as an additional insured. The minimum amount of acceptable
insurance shall be $300,000.
      5.   Revocation of an approved natural lawn permit. The Village Clerk,
upon the recommendation of the Weed Commissioner, shall have authority to
revoke an approved natural lawn permit if the owner fails to maintain the
natural lawn or comply with the provisions set forth in this section. Notice of
intent to revoke an approved natural lawn permit shall be appealable to the
Village Board. All applications for appeal shall be submitted within 15
calendar days of receipt of the written notice of intent to revoke the approved
natural lawn permit. Failure to file an application for appeal within 15
calendar days shall result in the revocation of the natural lawn permit. All
written applications for appeal filed within the required 15 calendar days
shall be reviewed by the Village Board in an open meeting. The decision
rendered by the Village Board shall be final and binding.
      6.   Public nuisance defined; abatement after notice.
         a.   The growth of a natural lawn, as defined in this section, shall
be considered a public nuisance unless a natural lawn management plan has been
filed and approved and a permit is issued by the Village, as set forth in this
section. Violators shall be served with a notice of public nuisance by mail,
with delivery confirmation, to the last known mailing address of the property
owner.
         b.   If the person so served with a notice of public nuisance
violation does not abate the nuisance within 10 days, the enforcement officer
may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the
abatement, and such expense shall be charged to and paid by such property
owner. Notice of the bill for abatement of the public nuisance shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises and shall be payable within 10 calendar days from
receipt thereof. Within 60 days after such costs and expenses are incurred and
remain unpaid, the Village Clerk shall enter those charges onto the tax roll as
a special charge pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0627.
         c.   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such claim or to mail
such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to place the Village expense on the tax roll for unpaid bills
for abating the public nuisance, as provided for in this section.
   C.   Grass Cutting.
      1.   Purpose. This section is adopted due to the unique nature of the
problems associated with lawns, grasses and weeds being allowed to grow to
excessive length in the Village of Rochester.
      2.   Public nuisance declared. The Village Board finds that lawns and
non-noxious grasses and weeds on lots or parcels of land that are five acres or
less within the Village of Rochester that exceed eight inches in length
adversely affect the public health and safety of the public in that they tend
to emit pollen and other discomforting bits of plants, constitute a fire hazard
and a safety hazard in that debris can be hidden in the grass, interfere with
the public convenience and adversely affect property values of other land
within the Village. For that reason, any lawn, grass or weed on a lot or parcel
of land that is five acre or less, that exceeds eight inches in length, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, except for property located in a
designated floodplain area and/or wetland area, or where the lawn, grass or
weed is part of a natural lawn approved pursuant to subsection B, above.
      3.   Nuisances prohibited. No person shall permit any public nuisance as
defined in subsection C.2 above to remain on any premises owned or controlled
by the person within the Village.
      4.   Inspection. The Weed Commissioner or his/her designee shall inspect
or cause to be inspected all premises and places within the Village to
determine whether any public nuisance as defined in subsection C.2. exists.
      5.   Abatement of nuisance. If the Weed Commissioner determines with
reasonable certainty that any public nuisance as defined in subsection C.2.
exists, he/she shall immediately cause written notice to be served in person or
mailed to the property owner by mail, with delivery confirmation, to notify the
owner that the nuisance must be abated within five days, and if not done, that
the Village proposes to have the lot, grass or lawn cut after five days so as
to conform to this section and subsection A.
      6.   Due process hearing. If the property owner believes that the grasses
or weeds are not a nuisance, the owner may request a hearing before the Village
Board. The request for said hearing must be made in writing to the Village
Clerk's office within the five days set forth in the Weed Commissioner's
notice. When a hearing is requested by the owner of the property, the hearing
by the Village Board shall be held at the next possible regular Village Board
meeting, The property in question will not be mowed by the Village until such
time as the hearing is held by the Board. At the hearing, the owner may appear
in person or by his/her attorney, may present witnesses in his/her own behalf,
and may cross-examine witnesses presented by the Village, as well as subpoena
witnesses for his/her own case. At the close of the hearing, the Village Board
shall make its determination in writing, specifying its findings, facts and
conclusions. If the Village Board determines that a public nuisance does exist,
the Board shall order the Weed Commissioner to mow the property in question,
unless the property has been mowed by the owner, within 48 hours of the Village
Board's decision. If the owner does not abate the nuisance within the described
48 hours, the Weed Commissioner shall cause the same nuisance to be abated and
the costs assessed as a special charge against the property.
      7.   Village's abatement of the nuisance. In any case where the owner,
occupant or person in charge of the property fails to cut his/her lawn, grass
or weeds in conformance with the notice, as set forth above, then and in that
event the Village may cut said lawn, grass or weeds as follows:
         a.   The written notice required in Subsection 6 shall inform said
person that in the event of his/her failure to abate the nuisance within the
prescribed time, the Village shall abate the same and the cost thereof shall be
assessed to the property owner as a special charge.
         b.   The Village shall cut or cause to be cut all grass and weeds from
the subject's property and shall charge the expenses of so doing at a rate as
established by resolution by the Village Board. The charges shall be set forth
in a statement to the Village Clerk who, in turn, shall mail the same to the
owner, occupant or person in charge of the subject premises. If said statement
is not paid in full within 30 days thereafter, the Village Clerk shall enter
the charges in the tax roll as a special charge against said lot or parcel of
land, and the same shall be collected as set forth in Wis. Stat. ss. 66.0517 or
66.0627.
   D.   Penalties and Fees.
      1.   In addition to the provisions of each subsection any person who
fails to comply with a Village order within the required time period shall be
subject to the general penalties found in s.
50-20 of this Code.
      2.   In addition to any penalties provided in this Section, the Village
may issue stop-work orders upon owners of lots where work is unfinished under
an existing permit for any violation of section B.
      3.   Additional notices of violations are not required for any property
that has received one notice in the same calendar year.
      4.   The fee for the mowing or destruction of weeds, cutting or removal
of a natural lawn, or the cutting of grass by order of the Village Weed
Commissioner shall be established by the Village Board and set forth in the Fee
Schedule.
      5.   The fee for a natural lawn permit fee shall be established by the
Village Board and set forth in the fee schedule.
 
Notes
2 2 Adopted 05-16-2016, Ordinance #2016-5
7-13. PUBLIC PARK REGULATIONS.
   A.   Dogs Not Allowed in Public Parks. No person shall permit any dog owned
or kept by such person, nor shall any person permit any dog under such person=s
management and control, to enter upon the grounds of any public park within the
Village of Rochester.
   B.   Closing Times for Public Parks.
      1.   Rochester Commons Park in the Village of Rochester shall be closed
to public use from dusk to dawn. No person shall use the park, its facilities,
nor its off-street parking areas or walkways for any purposes during such
closed hours except to access the public library. “Dusk” shall mean that period
of time 30 minutes before sunset. “Dawn” shall mean that period of time 30
minutes before sunrise.
      2.   Individuals or sanctioned groups may apply for a permit exempting
them from the above prohibition as stated in subsection 1. hereof for scheduled
events which are reasonably expected to commence prior to the closing times
stated and terminate after the closing times stated, provided such permit is
obtained not less than thirty days prior to the scheduled event and that the
permit application indicates the time at which the event shall terminate and
the time at which the used area shall be cleared. The prohibition as contained
in subsection 1. hereof shall be effective from that stated closing time in any
event where a permit is obtained. Such permit application shall be made to the
Village Clerk and the permit shall be granted by the Village Board, in its
discretion.
      3.   The closing hours stated herein shall not be applicable to Pioneer
Park in the Village of Rochester. (Note: Case-Eagle Park is owned by Racine
County and is subject to Racine County closing hour regulations.)
   C.   Operating Vehicles in Public Parks.
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon the grounds of any
public park within the Village of Rochester unless such vehicle is operated
upon the established parking area for such park. Any “off-road” operation of a
motor vehicle in a public park is a violation of this section.
      2.   Any person guilty of a violation of this subsection is subject to
the penalties set forth in s.
7-50, and shall also be liable for restitution for the repair of damage caused
by such violation.
7-14. FOX RIVER VESSEL REGULATIONS.
   A.   No boat, launch, vessel or other watercraft propelled in whole or in
part by steam, gas, gasoline, petroleum, naptha fluid, electricity, or by other
engine power shall be operated on Fox River within the corporate limits of the
Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin:
      1.   At a rate of speed in excess of five miles per hour;
      2.   In a careless, negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger the
life, property or persons of others; or
      3.   Between one hour after sunset and one hour before sunrise without a
light or lights clearly visible from all directions.
   B.   Every boat propelled by gasoline or other similar motive power when
operated on Fox River within the corporate limits of the Village of Rochester
shall be equipped and operated with a muffler, at all time in good working
order sufficient to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and with such muffler
closed and without the cut-out open, except when engaged in a race conducted or
sanctioned by a Wisconsin boat club under a permit from Racine County or the
Village of Rochester.
7-15. TRUANCY.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, the statutory
provisions in Wis. Stat. chs. 118 and 938 relating to compulsory school
attendance, truancy, habitual truancy, the penalties for contributing to
truancy and school district truancy plans, are adopted and by reference made a
part of this section as though fully set forth herein. Any future amendments,
revisions or modifications of the chapters incorporated herein are intended to
be made a part of this section. This section is enacted pursuant to Wis. Stat.
s. 118.163.
   A.   Definitions.
   “Dropout” means a person who has ceased to attend school, continues to
reside in the school district, does not attend a public school, a private
school, or an alternative program leading to high school graduation or a high
school equivalency diploma as provided in Wis. Stat. ss. 118.15(1)(b) to (d) on
a full-time basis, has not graduated from high school, and does not have an
acceptable excuse under Wis. Stat. s. 118.15.
   “Habitual truant” means a person who is absent from school without an
acceptable excuse under Wis. Stat. ss. 118.15 and 118.16(4) (the school’s
written attendance policy) for part or all of five or more days on which school
is held during a school semester.
   “Truancy” means any absence of part or all of one or more days from school
during which the school attendance officer, principal or teacher has not been
notified of the legal cause of such absence by the parent or guardian of the
absent pupil, subject to the limits of Wis. Stat. s. 118.15(3)(c), and also
means intermittent attendance carried on for the purpose of defeating the
intent of Wis. Stat. s. 118.15.
   “Truant” means a person who is absent from school without an acceptable
excuse under Wis. Stat. ss. 118.15 and 118.16(4) (the school’s written
attendance policy) for part or all of any day on which school is held during a
school semester.
   B.   Truancy Prohibited. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 118.15, all persons
between the ages of six and eighteen shall attend school. No person under the
age of eighteen shall be a truant, habitual truant or a dropout.
   C.   Disposition. Any person cited for being truant, habitual truant or
dropout shall appear before the Court with the person’s parent or guardian.
Upon a finding that a person has violated this section, the Court shall enter a
dispositional order that may include any one or more of the following, as
appropriate:
      1.   Truant.
         a.   An order that the person attend school.
         b.   Forfeitures:
            (1)   For a first violation, a forfeiture of not more than $50.00
plus costs.
            (2)   For a second or subsequent violation within twelve months of
a previous violation, not more than $100.00 plus costs. Forfeitures are subject
to Wis. Stat. s. 938.37, and may not exceed a cumulative amount of $500.00 for
all violations committed during a school semester. All or part of the
forfeiture plus costs may be assessed against the person, the parents or
guardians of the person, or both.
      2.   Habitual Truant.
         a.   An order that the person attend school.
         b   A forfeiture of not more than $500.00 plus costs, subject to Wis.
Stat. s. 938.37. All or part of the forfeiture plus costs may be assessed
against the person, the parents or guardians of the person, or both.
         c.   Suspension of the person=s operating privilege for not less than
30 days nor more than one year. The Court shall immediately take possession of
the suspended license and forward it to the Department of Transportation, along
with notice of the reason for and duration of the suspension.
         d.   An order that the person remain at home except during religious
worship or school programs. Such order may allow the person to leave his or her
home if accompanied by a parent or guardian.
         e.   An order that the person attend an educational program as
provided in Wis. Stat. s. 118.163(2)(d).
         f.   An order that the Department of Workforce Development revoke the
person’s work permit, as provided in Wis. Stat. s.118.163(2)(e).
         g.   Any other reasonable conditions consistent with this section,
including a curfew, restrictions on associating with other children or adults,
and on going to or remaining on specified premises.
         h.   An order that the person’s parent, guardian or legal custodian
participate in counseling (at the parent’s, guardian’s or legal custodian’s own
expense) or attend school with the person, or both.
      3.   Dropout. The Court may suspend the operating privilege of a person
who is at least sixteen but is less than eighteen years of age and is a
dropout. The Court may suspend the person’s operating privilege until the
person reaches the age of eighteen. The Court shall immediately take possession
of the suspended license and forward it to the Department of Transportation,
along with notice of the reason for and duration of the suspension.
   D.   Investigation of Truants and Dropouts.
      1.   A law enforcement agency may certify to the school district in
writing that a student is under investigation for truancy and may obtain the
student’s attendance record pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 118.125(2)(cg). The
school district clerk who discloses the attendance record to the law
enforcement agency shall notify the student’s parent or guardian of that
disclosure as soon as practicable after the disclosure.
      2.   The Court may order a school district to provide a list of persons
known to be dropouts to the Court. The Court may request that the Department of
Transportation assist it to determine which dropouts have operating privileges.
   E.   Jurisdiction.
      1.   A person who is under eighteen years of age on the date of
disposition is subject to Wis. Stat. s. 938.342.
      2.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 938.17(2), the Court has jurisdiction to
enter dispositional orders under Wis. Stat. s. 938.342, and to impose sanctions
for violation of dispositional orders under Wis. Stat. s. 938.355(6m),
regardless of the juvenile’s age in proceedings for habitual truancy, and for
juveniles aged twelve and over in all other proceedings under this section.
      3.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 938.45, adults may be subject to certain
orders of the Court.
   F.   Sanctions. Violation of Conditions of a Dispositional Order. Pursuant
to Wis. Stat. s. 938.17(2)(i), the Court may impose any combination of the
sanctions authorized under Wis. Stat. s. 938.355(6m) and 938.45 for violation
of a dispositional order entered under this section.
   G.   Contributing to Truancy. Any person 17 years of age or older, who, by
any act or by omission, knowingly encourages or contributes to the truancy of
another, as defined in subsection A. or as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 118.16(1)
(c), shall be in violation of this section, whether or not the truant child is
adjudged to be in need of protection or services, if the natural and probable
consequences of that act or omission would be to cause the child to be truant.
This subsection does not apply to a person who has under his control a child
who has been sanctioned under Wis. Stat. s. 49.26(1)(h).
7-16. LOITERING; CURFEW.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Hours. No child under the age of eighteen years shall loiter, idle
or remain upon any street, alley or other public place or in any vacant lot in
the Village, whether on foot or in or upon any conveyance being driven or
parked thereon, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the next day
unless the child is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having lawful custody of such child.
      2.   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a child, upon
satisfactory proof thereof:
         a.   Performing an errand as directed by his parent, guardian or other
person having lawful custody.
         b.   Who is on his or her own premises.
         c.   Whose employment makes it necessary to be upon the streets,
alleys or public places (including any place of amusement or hotel, motel or
rooming house) or any motor vehicle after such hour.
         d.   Returning home from a supervised school, church or civic
function.
         e.   Who is participating in, going to or returning from:
            (1)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            (2)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults; or
            (3)   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article I of the Constitution of the State of Wisconsin, or both, such as
freedom of speech or the right of assembly.
      3.   The exceptions in subsection 2. shall not permit a child to
unnecessarily loiter about the streets, alleys or public places (including any
place of amusement or hotel, motel or rooming house) or vacant lots or be in a
parked motor vehicle on the public streets.
   B.   Parental Violation. No parent, guardian or other person having legal
custody of a child under the age of eighteen years shall permit such child to
loiter, idle or remain upon any street, alley or other public place or in a
vacant lot in the Village during the hours specified in sub. A.1. unless such
child is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having legal custody of such child.
   C.   Responsibility of Operators of Places of Amusement. No person operating
a place of amusement or entertainment within the Village, or any agent, servant
or employee of such person, shall permit a child under the age of eighteen
years to enter or loiter in such place of amusement or entertainment during the
hours specified in sub. A.1. unless such child is accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian or other adult person having legal custody of such child.
   D.   Responsibility of Hotels, Motels and Rooming Houses. No person
operating a hotel, motel or lodging or rooming house within the Village, or any
agent, servant or employee of such person, shall permit any child under the age
of eighteen years to visit, idle, wander or stroll in any portion of such
hotel, motel or lodging or rooming house during the hours specified in sub.
A.1. unless such child is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having legal custody of such child.
   E.   Detaining a Child. A child believed to be violating the provisions of
this section shall be reported to the Sheriff’s Department for Racine County,
Wisconsin, for proper identification. Every law enforcement officer while on
duty may detain any child violating subs. A., C. or D. pursuant to the
detention provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 938.19, and shall deliver the child to
the custody of his or her parent, guardian or person having legal custody of
the child, or as otherwise provided in Wis. Stat. s. 938.20.
   F.   Warning. The first time a child is detained by law enforcement officers
as provided in sub. E., the child and his or her parent, guardian or person
having legal custody shall be advised as to the provisions of this section and
any violation of this section occurring thereafter by this child or any other
child under such person’s care or custody shall result in penalties being
imposed us provided in sub. G.
   G.   Penalty.
      1.   Any parent, guardian or person having legal custody of a child
described in this section who has been warned in the manner provided in
subsection F. and who thereafter violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in s.
7-50.
      2.   Any child between the ages of 12 and 18 years who violates this
section after being detained and released under subsection E. and who has been
warned pursuant to subsection F. shall be subject to penalties as set forth in
s.
7-50.
7-17. UNDERAGE ALCOHOL.
   The provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 125.07 are hereby adopted and made a part
hereof by reference. A violation of any of the provisions of Wis. Stat. 125.07,
including, but not limited to the following provisions, shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. This section is adopted in strict conformance with
Wis. Stat. s. 125.07, and in case of conflict, the provisions of Wis. Stat. s.
125.07 shall control.
   A.   Definitions. In this section:
   “Alcohol Beverage” or “Alcoholic Beverage” means a fermented malt beverage
or intoxicating liquor.
   “Underage person” means a person who has not attained the legal drinking age
as specified under Wisconsin Law and who is not accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian or spouse who has attained the legal drinking age, except as
otherwise provided under Wis. Stat. s. 125.07.
   B.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.07(1)(a):
      1.   No person may procure for, sell, dispense or give away any alcoholic
beverage to any underage person.
      2.   No adult may knowingly permit or fail to take action to prevent the
illegal consumption of alcohol beverages by an underage person on premises
owned by the adult or under the adult’s control. This subsection shall not
apply to alcohol beverages used exclusively as part of a religious service.
      3.   No adult may intentionally encourage or contribute to a violation of
subsection D.
   C.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.07(3), no underage person may knowingly
enter, attempt to enter or be on any premises licensed under section
9-3 of this Municipal Code.
   D.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.07(4):
      1.   No underage person may procure or attempt to procure an alcohol
beverage from a person or premises licensed under section
9-3 of this Municipal Code.
      2.   No underage person may possess or consume an alcohol beverage on the
premises of a premises licensed under section
9-3 of this Municipal Code.
      3.   No underage person may falsely represent his or her age for the
purpose of receiving an alcohol beverage from a person or premises licensed
under section
9-3 of this Municipal Code.
      4.   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume an alcohol
beverage.
   E.   The penalty for a violation of this section shall be the same as the
penalty set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 125.07 for the corresponding violation,
inclusive of the juvenile disposition provisions of Wis. Stat. ch. 938. See
also section
9-3 of this Municipal Code.
7-18. SNOWMOBILES.
   A.   State Snowmobile Laws Adopted. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 350.18(2), the
Village adopts the provisions of Wis. Stat. ss. 350.02 to 350.05, 350.07 to
350.107, 350.11, 350.12, 350.13, 350.135, 350.15 to 350.17, 350.19 and 350.99
in strict conformity with said statutes, which are hereby adopted by reference
and made part of this Chapter as if fully set forth within. Acts required to be
performed or are prohibited by such statutes are required or prohibited by this
Chapter. The definitions set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 350.01 shall be applicable
herein.
   B.   Snowmobile Operation and Routes.
      1.   Operation. No person may operate a snowmobile in the Village except
in strict conformance with the statutory provisions adopted in section A.
Subject to the provisions and exceptions set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 350.02, no
person may operate a snowmobile on or adjacent to any Village street that is
not one of the types of highways listed therein, nor or on any sidewalk,
pedestrian way or mall, including but not limited to the sidewalk of the Main
Street Bridge.
      2.   Routes. Snowmobiles may only be operated adjacent to or on highways
lying in the Village if the operation is in strict conformance with section A,
provided, however, that pursuant to the Village’s power to provide for
residential access and access to lodging under Wis. Stat. s. 350.18(3), a
person may use any village street to get to or from a residence or lodging by
the shortest route from a designated highway or corridor.
      3.   No operation in Village parks or on other Village land. Pursuant to
the authority granted in Wis. Stat. s. 350.10, no person shall operate a
snowmobile in any Village park or on any other land owned by the Village.
      4.   See also section
5-14 of this Municipal Code, prohibiting leaving keys in unattended vehicles.
   C.   Enforcement and Penalties.
      1.   Any law enforcement officer specified under Wis. Stat. s. 350.17 has
authority and jurisdiction to enforce this section.
      2.   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall,
upon conviction thereof be subject to the penalties set forth in Wis. Stat. s.
350.11.
7-19. Offenses Against State Law Subject to Forfeiture.
   The following statutes defining offenses against the state are adopted by
reference as though fully set forth herein to define offenses against the peace
and good order of the Village, exclusive of any regulations for which the
statutory penalty is a term of imprisonment, and provided the penalty for
commission of such offenses hereunder shall be limited to a penalty as set
forth in section
7-50 and
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code:
Statute Section Subject
Statute Section    Subject
218.0146           Motor vehicles
218.0147           Purchase or lease of motor vehicle by minor
254.76             Causing fires by tobacco smoking
939.05             Parties to crime
939.22             Words and phrases defined
940.19(1)          Battery
941.10             Negligent handling of burning material
941.12(2) and (3)  Interfering with fire fighting
941.13             False alarms
941.20(1)          Endangering safety by use of dangerous weapon
941.23             Carrying concealed weapon
941.24             Possession of switchblade knife
943.01(1)          Damage to property
943.017(1)         Graffiti
943.11             Entry into locked vehicle
943.125            Entry into locked coin box
943.13             Trespass to land
943.14             Criminal trespass to dwellings
943.145            Criminal trespass to medical facility
943.15             Entry onto a construction site or into a locked building,
                   dwelling or room
943.20             Theft (value under $1,000)
                   Fraud on hotel or restaurant keeper, recreational
943.21             attraction, taxicab operator, or gas station (value under
                   $1,000)
943.22             Use of cheating tokens
943.24(1)          Issue of worthless check (value under $1,000 each or
                   cumulative within 90 days)
943.45             Theft of Telecommunications Services
943.455            Theft of Commercial Mobile Service
943.46             Theft of Video Service
943.47             Theft of Satellite Cable Programming
943.50             Retail theft (value under $1,000)
943.55             Removal of shopping cart
943.61             Theft of library material (value under $1,000)
944.20             Lewd and lascivious behavior
944.23             Making lewd, obscene or indecent drawings
946.40             Refusing to aid officer
946.41             Resisting or obstructing officer
946.42(1) and (2)  Escape (related to traffic violation, ordinance violation,
                   civil arrest or body execution)
946.72(2)          Tampering with public records and notices
947.01             Disorderly conduct
947.011            Disrupting a funeral or memorial service
947.012            Unlawful use of telephone
947.0125           Unlawful use of computerized communication systems
961.01(14)         Definition of marijuana
961.14(4)(t)       Schedule 1 substances list (THC)
961.41(3g)(e)      Possession of THC, 25 grams or less, subject to 961.41(3g)
                   (intro.)
961.571            Definitions (drug paraphernalia)
961.572            Determination (drug paraphernalia)
961.573(1) and (2) Possession of drug paraphernalia
961.574(1) and (2) Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
961.575(1) and (2) Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor
 
7-20. HARASSMENT PROHIBITED.
   A.   State statute adopted. Wis. Stat. s. 947.013(1m) is adopted and further
broadened as set forth herein.
   B.   Definition. As used in this section, the following term shall have the
meaning indicated:
   “Course of Conduct” means a pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts
(consisting of at least two acts) over a period of time, however short,
evidencing a continuity of purpose.
   C.   Harassment prohibited. No person, with intent to harass or intimidate
another person, may:
      1.   Strike, shove, kick or otherwise subject the person to physical
contact or attempt or threaten to do the same; or
      2.   Engage in a course of conduct or repeatedly commit acts which harass
or intimidate the person and which serve no legitimate purpose. Such course of
conduct or repeated acts may consist of conduct which is solely verbal, solely
physical, or a combination of both.
7-21. [Reserved.]
7-22. DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS.
   A.   As used in this section, the term "firearm" means any gun, pistol,
revolver, rifle, air gun or any other device or implement which impales with
force a metal pellet of any kind.
   B.   No person shall discharge a firearm within the limits of the Village,
including residential and agriculturally zoned areas, except in the following
specific cases:
      1.   By a law enforcement officer or a person in the lawful defense of
his or her person or property.
      2.   By any person while on a clearly defined target range, in a
supervised shooting gallery, or a legal game preserve.
      3.   By any resident of the Village while on land upon which he resides
or by any person while upon such land with the owner's or resident's express
consent. Provided further, that this exception shall apply only to those lands
within the Village that are zoned as "agricultural districts", “conservation
districts” or “Urban Reserve District” under the Village Planning and Zoning
Code,
Chapter 35 of this Municipal Code.
   C.   No person shall so handle a gun, pistol or other firearm as to cause
its discharge carelessly or heedlessly, in willful or wanton disregard of the
rights or safety of others.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within 200
feet of any residence without the owner's consent.
7-23. RESIDENTIAL PICKETING.
   A.   Declaration. It is declared that:
      1.   The protection and preservation of the home is the keystone of
democratic government and the public health, welfare and good order of the
community require that members of the community enjoy in their homes and
dwellings a feeling of well-being, tranquility and privacy and, when absent
from their homes and dwellings, carry with them the sense of security inherent
in the assurance that they may return to the enjoyment of their homes and
dwellings.
      2.   The practice of picketing before or about residences and dwellings
causes emotional disturbance and distress to the occupants, obstructs and
interferes with free use of public sidewalks and public ways of travel and such
practice has as its object the harassing of such occupants.
      3.   Without resort to such practice, full opportunity exists, and under
the terms and provisions of this Code will continue to exist, for the exercise
of freedom of speech and other constitutional rights.
      4.   The provisions enacted by this section are necessary for the public
interest to avoid such detrimental results set forth above and are enacted by
the Village Board under the provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 61.34(1), which statute
gives powers to a village board to enact these regulations.
   B.   Picketing Residence or Dwelling Prohibited. No person shall engage in
picketing before or about the residence or dwelling of any individual in the
Village.
7-24. SKATEBOARDING.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or ride a skateboard in the
following places in the Village:
   A.   On any public property where signs are posted prohibiting such use.
   B.   On private property (open to the public) were signs are posted
prohibiting such use, unless written permission has been given by the owner,
lessee or person in charge of the property.
7-50. PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any provision of the chapter or any regulation or
rule, or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code, unless a specific penalty is set forth in
this Chapter. Where a specific penalty is set forth in this Chapter, it shall
not preclude the application of non-conflicting provisions of
Chapter 50.
CHAPTER 8 PUBLIC NUISANCES
8-1. PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the Village of Rochester, Racine County,
Wisconsin.
8-2. RIGHT TO FARM.
   It is the intent of this chapter to allow continuation of agricultural uses
and practices in the Village in those areas of the Village zoned appropriately.
The Village Board finds that changes in agricultural technological practices
and scale of operation have, on occasion, tended to create conflicts between
agricultural and other activities. The Village Board finds that, to the extent
possible consistent with good public policy, the prohibition against public
nuisances should not hamper agricultural production or the use of modern
technology in lands and areas zoned and primarily used for agricultural
purposes.
   A.   The Village Board confirms the right of a property owner, or his or her
lessee or assign, to continue, expand or create an agricultural use if that use
is in conformance with Wisconsin Law and Village Ordinances, unless the use is
a substantial threat to public health or safety.
   B.   In any nuisance action against an agricultural use or agricultural
practice conducted in agricultural areas of the Village, the relief granted, if
any, shall not substantially restrict or regulate such uses or practices unless
the court specifically finds that such relief is necessary to protect the
public health or safety, under the standards set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 823.08,
and such uses or practices affect an appreciable number of persons within the
Village.
8-3. PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   A public nuisance is a thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public.
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency.
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way.
8-4. PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but shall not be construed
to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition of s.
8-3 of this chapter.
   A.   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold or
offered for sale to the public.
   B.   Carcasses of animals, birds, or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death.
   C.   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal or any material
whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may breed.
   D.   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply.
   E.   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not fly-tight.
   F.   All noxious weeds and other rank growth of vegetation.
   G.   All animals running at large.
   H.   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gasses, fly
ash or industrial dust within the Village limits or within one mile therefrom
in such quantities as to endanger the health of persons of ordinary
sensibilities or to threaten or cause substantial injury to property.
   I.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other substances.
   J.   Any use of property, substances or things within the Village of
Rochester or within two miles thereof, emitting or causing any foul, offensive,
noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors, effluvia or stenches
repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort,
injure or inconvenience the health of any appreciable number of persons within
the Village.
   K.   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public use.
8-5. PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following acts, omissions, places and conditions and things are hereby
declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and safety but such enumeration
shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public peace or
safety coming within the provisions of section
8-3 of this chapter:
   A.   Dumping or storage of rubbish or abandoned, junked, discarded,
dismantled or unregistered motor vehicles.
      1.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      “Rubbish” includes waste, refuse, such as cans, used lumber, tree stumps
and branches, lawn rakings, glass, metals, garbage, ashes, junk, crockery, and
part or parts of any automobile or motor vehicle, and similar waste products
and debris.
      "Abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled and/or unregistered motor
vehicle" includes any vehicle or portion of a vehicle that is incapable of
being self-propelled upon the public streets, any vehicle whose owner cannot be
identified, and/or any vehicle without current license plates.
      2.   Storage declared a nuisance. It is declared and found that rubbish,
abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled and/or unregistered motor vehicles
upon private property within the Village are detrimental to the public health,
welfare and safety. Such rubbish and/or vehicles constitute an attractive
nuisance to children, are a peril to their safety, depreciate the value of
neighboring properties and constitute a fire hazard. This section has for its
purpose the effective termination of such practices.
      3.   Prohibited acts. No person, either as owner, lessee, occupant or
otherwise, shall store or deposit, or cause to permit to be stored or deposited
rubbish and/or an abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled or unregistered
motor vehicle in and upon any private property, street, public property, or
government property within the village.
      4.   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the above prohibitions:
         a.   Storage in receptacles incidental to the normal use of the
property.
         b.   Storage of dismantled, inoperable, junked or wrecked vehicles
within a structure of a permanent or temporary nature which totally encloses
the vehicle(s) from view from all sides and above. A fence is not a structure
under this section.
         c.   Temporary storage not to exceed 60 days of dismantled,
inoperable, junked or wrecked motor vehicles by a sales or repair business
located in a properly zoned area.
         d.   Facilities for which a conditional use permit has been issued
pursuant to
Chapter 35.
      5.   Special abatement procedure.
         a.   If an abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled or unregistered
motor vehicle is located upon a public or private property in the Village of
Rochester without the property owner’s consent, the Village will proceed
according to the procedures set forth in s.
5-12 of this Municipal Code, ss.
8-7 and
8-8, and/or Wis. Stat. s. 342.40, as appropriate.
         b.   If an abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled or unregistered
motor vehicle is located upon a public or private property in the Village of
Rochester with the property owners consent, and remains so for a period of 30
days, notice will be sent by certified mail ordering the removal of the
nuisance, and indicating that if the vehicle is not removed or the property
brought into compliance within ten days, the Village will proceed as specified
in ss.
8-7 and
8-8, and citations will be issued pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 175.25 and
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
         c.   Abatement of all other nuisances under this subsection will occur
as specified in ss.
8-8 and
8-9.
   B.   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport to
be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or maintained
upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing.
   C.    All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a
clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
   D.   All limbs and branches of trees in violation of s. 13-04 of this
Municipal Code.
   E.   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of the
State of Wisconsin and this Municipal Code.
   F.   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human use. (See also
Chapter 11 of this Municipal Code.)
   G.   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less
than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground.
   H.   All loud, discordant and unnecessary noises or vibrations of any kind.
   I.   The keeping or harboring of any animal or fowl which by frequent or
habitual howling, yelping, barking, crowing or making of other noises shall
greatly annoy or disturb a neighborhood or any considerable number of persons
within the Village.
   J.   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under same, except as permitted by this Municipal Code, of
which, although made in accordance with the Code, are kept or maintained for an
unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has been accomplished.
   K.   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk.
   L.   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and other
covers have not been removed or such portion of the latch mechanism has not
been removed to prevent latching or locking of the door.
   M.   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which causes
large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of the
streets or sidewalks.
   N.   Repeated or continuous violations of the Ordinances of the Village of
Rochester or laws of the State of Wisconsin relating to the storage of
flammable liquids.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
8-6. PUBLIC NUISANCES OFFENDING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but each enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
offending public morals and decency coming within the definition of s.
8-3 of this chapter.
   A.   Disorderly houses. All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill
fame, gambling houses and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the
purpose of prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse or gambling; any house,
dwelling or premises where there are continuous violations of Village
ordinances, or there are repeated (more than two in any six- month period)
police calls for complaints regarding problems including, but not limited to,
noise, fights, violence, disorderly conduct, or neighbor problems, whether or
not a citation is issued or an arrest is made. Citations under this section may
be given to the residents, tenants, lessees, and/or owners of the premises.
   B.   All gambling devices and slot machines.
   C.   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages are
sold, processed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without a
permit or license as provided for by the Ordinances of the Village of
Rochester.
   D.   Any place or premises within the Village where Village ordinances or
state laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are
openly violated.
   E.   Any place or premises resorted to for the purposes of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the laws of the
State of Wisconsin or the ordinances of the Village of Rochester.
8-7. RESERVED.
8-8. ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A.   Inspection of Premises. Whenever complaint is made in writing to the
Village that a public nuisance exists within the Village of Rochester, the
Clerk shall promptly notify the appropriate Village official, who shall
forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall make a
written report of findings to the Village Board. Whenever practicable, the
inspecting official shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and
shall file the same in the office of the Village Clerk.
   B.   Emergency abatement.
      1.   Order of Abatement. If the inspecting official determines that a
public nuisance exists within the Village and that there is imminent danger to
the public health, safety, peace, morals, decency, or the trees of the Village,
the official may issue an order reciting the existence of a public nuisance
constituting imminent danger to the public and requiring immediate or quick
action be taken as the official deems necessary to abate the nuisance. The
order shall be served personally on the owner of the premises, as well as the
occupant if different from the owner and applicable to the described nuisance.
If the owner is not present in the Village, the order shall be communicated to
the owner by telephone, fax, or computerized communication, and the original
order shall be served personally or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,
the order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is
directed shall comply with the order immediately or within the number of days
given in the order. Any costs incurred by the Village for delay of the action
are the responsibility of the property owner.
      2.   Abatement by Village. Whenever the owner or occupant shall refuse or
neglect to remove or abate the condition described in the order, the inspecting
official shall, in his or her discretion, enter upon the premises and cause the
nuisance to be removed or abated and the Village shall recover the expenses
incurred thereby from the owner or occupant of the premises or from the person
who has caused, permitted or maintained the nuisance.
   C.   Non-emergency Abatement.
      1.   Order to Abate Nuisance. If the inspecting official determines that
a public nuisance exists on private premises but that the nature of such
nuisance is not such as to threaten imminent danger to the public health,
safety, peace, morals or decency, the inspector shall issue an order reciting
the existence of a public nuisance and requiring the owner or occupant of the
premises to remove or abate the condition described in the order within the
time period specified therein. The order shall be served personally on the
owner of the premises, as well as the occupant if different from the owner and
applicable to the described nuisance, or, at the option of the inspecting
official, the notice may be mailed to the last known address of the person, to
be served by certified mail with return receipt. If the owner or the occupant
cannot be served in person or by certified mail, the order may be served by
posting it on the main entrance of the premises and by publishing it as a Class
3 notice under Wis. Stat. ch. 985. The time limit specified in the order runs
from the date of service or publication, and shall be not less than 30 days.
      2.   Abatement by Village. If the owner or occupant fails or refuses to
comply within the time period prescribed, the inspecting official may enter
upon the premises and cause the nuisance to be removed or abated and the
Village shall recover the expenses incurred thereby from the owner or occupant
of the premises or from the person who has caused or permitted the nuisance.
   D.   Remedy from Order. Any person affected by such order shall, within 30
days of service or publication of the order, apply to the Circuit Court for an
order restraining the Village and the inspecting official from entering on the
premises and abating or removing the nuisance, or be forever barred, provided,
however, that if the order is an emergency order, the person affected shall
apply to the Circuit Court for such order immediately. The court shall
determine the reasonableness of the order for abatement of the nuisance.
   E.   Other methods not excluded. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as prohibiting the abatement of public nuisances by the Village or its
officials in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin.
   F.   Court order. Except when necessary under Subsection B, an official
hereunder shall not use force to obtain access to private property to abate a
public nuisance but shall request permission to enter upon private property if
such premises are occupied and, if such permission is denied, shall apply to
any court having jurisdiction for an order assisting the abatement of the
public nuisance.
8-9. COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter for the erection,
contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of a public nuisance, the
cost of abating a public nuisance by the Village shall be collected as a debt
from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the
nuisance; and if an order to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner,
and the cost remains unpaid, such cost shall be assessed against the real
estate as a special charge.
8-10. INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE BOARD PROHIBITED.
   No person shall prevent, delay or interfere with the Village Board or any
Village officer, employee or representative while they are engaged in the
performance of duties imposed by this Chapter.
8-50. PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or any regulation
or rule, or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code in addition to the penalties set forth in
this Chapter.
CHAPTER 9 REGULATIONS, LICENSES AND PERMITS
9-1. ANIMALS.
   A.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   “Animal” includes any warm blooded creature, except a human being, a reptile
or an amphibian.
   “Own” or “Owner” includes any person who owns, harbors or keeps an animal.
See Wis. Stat. s. 174.001.
   “Harbor” means to afford an animal lodging, to shelter it or to give it
refuge.
   “Keep” means to exercise some manner of care, custody or control over an
animal.
   “Foster” means to temporarily keep an animal that is not available for
adoption, sale or trade in a residence for a period no longer than 30 days on
behalf of an animal control facility, animal shelter, animal breeder, animal
dealer or rescue group regardless of the licensing status of the facility,
shelter, breeder, dealer or group, without compensation. Fostering includes
care provided by a “Home Custody Provider” as defined in Wis. Admin. Code s.
ATCP 16.01(9). Fostering does not include temporarily caring for an animal
owned by another person while that person is unable to care for it due to
absence, illness, vacation, or similar circumstances.
   “Board” means to keep or harbor an animal belonging to another person or
entity, or an animal that is available for adoption, sale or trade, with or
without compensation. Boarding does not include fostering.
   “Temporary Keeping” is the temporary caring for an animal owned by a friend
or relative while that person is unable to care for it due to deployment,
absence, illness, vacation, or similar circumstances.
   “At Large” means an animal off the premises of the owner that is not
physically leashed to a person that is able to exert control over the animal.
   “Carcass” means the dead body, or any part of the dead body, of a livestock
animal or other domestic animal.
   “Cruel” means causing unnecessary or excessive pain or suffering or
unjustifiable injury or death, and includes neglect which results in the same.
   “Dog” includes any canine, including a hybrid dog, regardless of age or sex.
   “Hybrid Dog” means a dog bred with the intent of having wolf, coyote or
other wildlife mixed into the bloodline.
   “Cat” includes any feline, including a hybrid cat, regardless of age or sex.
   “Hybrid Cat” means a cat bred with the intent of having lynx, puma or other
wildlife mixed into the bloodline.
   “Neutered” means an animal rendered sterile by surgical means.
   “Livestock” means any horse, bovine, sheep, pig, elk, or other deer raised
in captivity, llama, alpaca, domestic rabbit, farm-raised deer, emu, ostrich,
or domestic fowl, including game fowl raised in captivity.
   “Domestic Animal” includes livestock, dogs and cats, along with animals
typically kept as pets, such as birds and guinea pigs, but does not include
rodents unless kept as pets.
   B.   Animals at Large; Injury to Property by Any Animal; Impoundment.
      1.   No owner shall permit any animal to go at large in the Village of
Rochester. Any animal at large or untagged is subject to impoundment, and the
owner shall be liable for all costs relating to the impoundment. A dog is
considered untagged if a valid license and rabies tag is not attached to a
collar. A cat is considered untagged if a valid rabies tag is not attached to
collar. Any dog or cat that is found untagged is subject to impoundment, and
the owner shall be liable for all costs relating to the impoundment.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning an animal to permit such
animal to injure or attack another animal.
      3.   No person other than the owner shall open any gate or door to enable
any animal to leave its premises for the purpose and result of setting an
animal at large.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal within the village to
graze or feed, or to go upon any such area not designated as or improved for
street purposes. Horses may be ridden through the Village of Rochester during
daylight hours only and must be held to a walk.
      5.   Damage to property. No animal owner shall allow the same to go upon
any sidewalk, parkway, or private lands or premises without the permission of
the property owner, or break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure, any lawn,
flower bed, plant, shrub, tree, or garden in any manner, or to defecate
thereon.
      6.   Animal Waste. No animal owner shall allow the same to be on any
public or private property, not owned or possessed by any such person, unless
he has a device to scoop up excrement and an appropriate depository to put such
excrement in. This shall not apply to visually handicapped or otherwise
disabled persons who are unable to conform to this provision.
      7.   Impoundment. Should any animal be allowed to go at large in
violation of this section, a Law Enforcement Officer or the Village Humane
Officer shall take up and impound such animal with the Village Humane Officer
and shall serve upon the owner, if known, or shall post upon the exterior of
the Village Hall and in two other public places, a notice of the taking and
impounding of said animal. The owner or person entitled to the possession of
the animal at any time within seven days after such notice is received or
posted may have the animal restored to him or her, upon proving his or her
right thereto and paying all lawful charges incurred, including those for
maintaining the animal during the period of impoundment at rates established by
the Village Board.
   C.   Providing Proper Shelter, Food and Water.
      1.   Shelter. No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding
any animal may fail to provide the animal with proper accessible shelter as set
forth in Wis. Stat. s. 951.14 and this section. In the case of farm animals,
nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing shelter requirements or
standards more stringent than normally accepted husbandry practices in Racine
County.
         a.   The shelter shall be a moisture proof structure of suitable size
to accommodate and allow retention of body heat from inclement weather. The
shelter shall be made of durable material and, except for livestock shelter,
shall have a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground. The
entrance to the shelter shall be covered by a flexible, wind proof material.
The shelter shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to
provide insulation and protection against cold and dampness. The shelter must
be placed where there is sufficient shade by nature or an artificial means of
shade shall be provided to protect any animal from direct sunlight.
         b.   The shelter and confining areas shall be maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury, and provide sufficient space to allow
the animal adequate freedom of movement. The shelter shall be kept cleaned,
reasonably dry without standing water or mud, and free of accumulations of
feces and/or trash.
      2.   Food. No person owning or responsible for caring for any animal
shall fail to provide food. Food shall be wholesome, palatable and of
sufficient quality and nutritive value for the animal's health, and shall be
free of contamination. Food receptacles shall be accessible, durable and kept
clean.
      3.   Water. No person owning or responsible for caring for any animal
shall fail to provide potable fresh water at all times, and if not available at
all times, shall be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of
the animal. Water receptacles shall be accessible, durable and kept clean.
   D.   Cruelty or Mistreatment of Animals.
      1.   No person shall neglect or mistreat or abuse any animal, or by any
act, omission or neglect cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal, whether belonging to such
person or to another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive
away vicious or trespassing animals.
      2.   No person shall carry or transport in any vehicle or over any
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public ground in the Village any animal or bird
so tied in place as to inflict undue stress or harm.
      3.   No person shall lead any animal upon a highway from a motor vehicle,
or from a trailer, semi-trailer or other wheeled conveyance drawn by a motor
vehicle in violation of Wis. Stat, s. 951.04.
   E.   Abandonment Prohibited; Humane Officer’s Acceptance of Animals.
      1.   Abandonment. No person owning, in charge of, or having custody of
any animal shall abandon it. If a person owns an unwanted animal, that person
is responsible for the humane disposal of the animal or finding a new owner for
the animal.
      2.   Stray and Abandoned Animals. The Humane Officer shall accept stray
and abandoned animals found in the Village. If the owner is found, the owner
shall be charged a daily boarding fee plus the cost of care and custody, in an
amount approved by the Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule. The
Humane Officer shall attempt to place the animal with a new owner if the owner
is not found and the animal is suitable for adoption, and if unsuitable for
adoption or unable to be placed within ten days, the Humane Officer may
euthanize the animal. The cost of euthanization shall be charged to the owner
if the owner is known.
   F.   Disposition of Carcasses. No person who owns or controls a carcass, or
who owns or controls the land on which a carcass is located, may leave the
carcass exposed to access by dogs or wild animals for a longer period than 24
hours in the months of April to November or 48 hours during the months of
December to March if the person knows or reasonably should know that the
carcass is exposed. No person shall transport or dispose of a carcass in
violation of Wis. Stat. s. 95.50.
   G.   Dogs or Other Domestic Animals Causing Damage or Injury.
      1.   Owners liability for damage or injury. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
174.02, and subject to Wis. Stat. s. 895.045 (contributory negligence) and
except as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 895.57(4) (unauthorized release of
animals), the owner of a dog or other domestic animal is liable for the full
amount of damages caused by the dog or other domestic animal injuring or
causing injury to a person, domestic animal or property. If the owner was
notified or knew that the dog or other domestic animal previously injured or
caused injury to a person, domestic animal or property, the owner shall be
liable for two times the full amount of the damages caused by the dog or other
domestic animal injuring or causing injury to a person, domestic animal or
property.
      2.   Penalties imposed on owner for dog or other domestic animal causing
damage or injury. The owner of a dog or other domestic animal shall be subject
to forfeiture as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code, but in no case less than $50.00 nor more
than $400.00 if the dog or other domestic animal injures or causes injury to a
person, domestic animal, property, deer, game birds, or the nests or eggs of
game birds. If the owner was notified or knew that the dog or other domestic
animal previously injured or caused injury to a person, domestic animal,
property, deer, game birds, or the nests or eggs of game birds, the owner shall
be subject to forfeiture as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code, but in no case less than $200.00 nor more
than $400.00 if the dog or other domestic animal injures or causes injury to a
person, domestic animal, property, deer, game birds, or the nests or eggs of
game birds. These penalties shall be in addition to any other liability imposed
on the owner.
      3.   Court order to euthanize a dog or other domestic animal. If a dog or
other domestic animal causes serious injury to a person or other domestic
animal on two separate occasions off of the owner's property without reasonable
cause, and the owner was notified or knew prior to the second injury that the
dog or domestic animal caused the first injury, the Village may commence a
civil action to obtain a judgment from a court ordering a humane officer to
euthanize the dog or other domestic animal.
   H.   Authority to Seize Dogs or Other Animals.
      1.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.13, the Village may direct a Law
Enforcement Officer or the Village Humane Officer to take custody of any animal
if the Law Enforcement Officer or Humane Officer has reasonable cause to
believe that the animal:
         a.   Is abandoned or a stray;
         b.   Is not tagged and/or licensed (if required);
         c.   Is not confined when subject to quarantine, regardless of whether
the order is for quarantine at an isolation facility or on the premises of the
owner as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 95.21;
         d.   Has caused damage to persons or property;
         e.   Is a participant in an animal fight intentionally instigated by
any person;
         f.   Has been mistreated; or
         g.   Is delivered by a veterinarian pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.13
(2).
      2.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.21, the animal may be held in custody
even after a claim by the owner if there are reasonable grounds to believe that
the animal poses a significant threat to public health, safety, or welfare, in
which case the Village shall petition the Circuit Court for an order to
euthanize the animal pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.23(3);
      3.   The Village may direct the humane officer to euthanize the animal
without court order if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the animal
poses an imminent threat to public health or safety, or the health or safety of
itself or its custodian, pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.23(4).
      4.   The owner of the animal shall be liable for all costs relating to
impoundment, custody and care of the animal under this section.
   I.   Nuisance Animals; Abatement Orders.
      1.   Nuisance Animals. No person shall own an animal that barks, whines,
howls, or makes other sounds common to its species in excess, attacks other
animals or persons, damages private or public property, repeatedly interferes
with passersby or passing vehicles, or is at large or unrestrained, as such
activity may be evidence of neglect or mistreatment of the animal in violation
of this chapter, or may cause or have the potential to cause injury to the
animal.
      2.   Abatement. Upon notification of a violation of subsection 1., and in
addition to all other provisions of this section, the Village may direct a Law
Enforcement Officer or its Humane Officer to investigate, and if a violation is
occurring, the Humane Officer shall issue and serve an order of abatement
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.11, which shall contain the name and address of a
person to whom directed, the ordinance being violated, a prohibition of further
violations, a description of measures necessary to correct the violation, which
may include an order to dispose of the animal, and a description of the hearing
and appeal procedures in subsection 3.
      3.   Appeal. Any person named in an abatement order may, within the ten
day period following service of the order, request an informal hearing before
the Village Board. The hearing shall be held within ten days after the request
is made, unless the requester agrees to a later date. A written decision by the
Village Board shall be issued within ten days of the hearing, and that decision
shall affirm the order or withdraw the order. A person adversely affected by
the Board's decision may seek judicial review by commencing an action in
circuit court within 30 days after the decision is issued.
   J.   Rabies Control; Dog, Cat and Ferret Rabies Vaccinations Required;
Quarantine. See s.
25-4 of this Municipal Code.
   K.   Dog Licensing. Wis. Stat. s. 174.07, relating to Dog Licensing, is
hereby adopted and supplemented, as set forth herein.
      1.   Dogs to be licensed.
         a.   Every person owning or keeping a dog within the Village of
Rochester shall apply for a license for each dog over the age of five months,
and shall provide proof of current rabies vaccination at the time of
application. Licenses must be applied for no later than January 31st of any
year or as soon as the dog attains the age of five months, or within 30 days of
acquiring ownership of a licensable dog, at the office of the Village
Treasurer.
         b.   A person who is temporarily keeping a dog is not required to
license the dog in the Village if the dog is licensed in the municipality where
it usually resides.
         c.   A person who is fostering a dog is not required to license the
dog if the dog is kept in the Village for no longer than 30 days, provided that
the dog has a certificate of veterinary inspection.
         d.   A person who is granted a Kennel License pursuant to subsection
L.2. shall provide Rabies Certificates and apply for Kennel Tags annually. The
Kennel Owner is responsible for ensuring that dogs kept or harbored at the
kennel have current rabies certificates and for affixing kennel tags to the
collars of all dogs age five months or older.
      2.   Fees. The fees for licenses shall be determined by the Village Board
and set forth in the Fee Schedule, and shall provide for a lesser license fee
for altered dogs and for a late fee for licenses applied for after January
31st, or on or before the age of five months, or within 30 days of acquiring a
licensable dog,
   L.   Limitation on Dogs and Cats; Kennel Licenses.
      1.   Except as set forth in subsection 3, the maximum number of adult
cats and/or dogs five months of age or older allowed per residential dwelling
unit or other premises in the Village is limited to four, but no more than
three of those animals may be dogs over five months of age. Anyone wishing to
keep more than the allowed number of dogs or cats must obtain a kennel license
pursuant to subsection 2.
         a.   The limitation on the number of dogs set forth herein applies to
dogs that are owned, fostered and/or boarded. It does not apply to the
temporary keeping of dogs, provided that such dogs are temporarily kept for no
longer than two weeks. In the event of the temporary keeping of dogs or cats
for persons who are deployed, a Special Exception Permit may be applied for and
granted by the Village Board.
         b.   A dog or cat breeder who engages in the sale of 25 or more dogs
and/or cats per year, regardless of the age of the animal, that the person has
bred and raised, unless all of the dogs and/or cats are from no more than three
litters, must obtain a Kennel License. Such an operation is considered a
commercial business.
         c.   Any person who sells, distributes, or trades, or offers for sale,
distribution or trade, 25 or more dogs or cats in a year that the person has
not bred and raised, regardless of the age of the animal, must obtain a Kennel
License. Such an operation is considered a commercial business.
      2.   Kennel License. No person shall keep, own, or operate a kennel
within the corporate limits of the Village of Rochester without first obtaining
a kennel license to do so from the Village Board. "Kennel" means any
residential dwelling unit or other premises wherein or whereon four or more
dogs or cats are kept for any purpose as set forth in subsection 1, except as
set forth in subsection 3.
         a.   No kennel license shall be issued for any land that is less than
three acres in area unless such kennel exists and is licensed on the date of
the adoption of this Chapter.
         b.   Kennel licenses are required for any premises that is regulated
by the State of Wisconsin pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 173.41.
         c.   Application. Any person desiring a license herein shall make
application in writing to the Village Board, which application shall be signed
by the applicant and shall set forth the name and residence of the applicant, a
correct and accurate description of the premises for which the license is
requested, and a statement of the purposes in detail and a description of the
facilities in detail for which the license is being requested, including the
number of animals desired to be kept on said premises.
         d.   Inspection, Determination and Fee. Upon receipt of the
application and the Application and Inspection fee, the Village Board or other
designated Village officials shall inspect the premises. Thereafter, the
Village Board may issue or deny such license taking into consideration the
particular premises, the applicant, the effect upon the adjoining and nearby
property owners, and the interest of public health safety and welfare. Such
license may be issued subject to the minimum standards set forth in subsection
e. The Application and Inspection fee shall be in an amount set by the Village
Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, and is not refundable in the event
that the license is not granted. If the Kennel License is granted, the
applicant shall also pay the annual Kennel Tag fee in the amount set by the
Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, which shall include a fee for
up to and including twelve animals and provide for an additional amount for
each additional animal.
         e.   Minimum Standards.
            (1)   Any person holding a Kennel License for dogs is subject to
the standards set forth in Wis. Admin. Code ss. ATCP 16.20, Dog care, general;
16.22, Dogs kept indoors; and 16.24, Dogs kept outdoors, provided, however,
that fencing shall be made of chain link and shall be installed in a manner
that prevents escape.
            (2)   Any person holding a Kennel License for cats is subject to
the standards for dogs set forth in Wis. Admin. Code ss. ATCP 16.20, Dog care,
general; 16.22, Dogs kept indoors; and 16.24, Dogs kept outdoors, provided,
however, that cages for temporary kenneling for cats (one week or less) shall
provide no less than 4.2 square feet of area per cat, and cages for kenneling
of cats for more than one week shall provide no less than 24 square feet of
area per animal.
         f.   Term of License; Review; Issuance; Transferability.
            (1)   Term. Any license issued hereunder shall be for a term of one
year 1 and shall be subject to renewal upon application to the Village Board
and payment of the required license fee.
            (2)   Review. Upon application for a new or renewal permit, The
Humane Officer will inspect the premises and report his or her recommendations
to the Public Works Committee, which shall provide a review and recommendation
to the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall provide notice of the application
and meeting to the abutting property owners at least ten days before the Public
Works Committee meeting.
            (3)   Issuance. Upon receipt of the Public Works Committee’s
recommendation, the Village Board shall vote to approve the Kennel License,
deny the Kennel License, or request additional information from the applicant
which shall be provided at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Village
Board. Additionally, the Village Board may place certain conditions of its
approval of the application which reasonably impact the health, safety and
welfare of the Village of Rochester. In reviewing the application and when
placing conditions on any such approval, where applicable, the Village Board
shall consider the following factors:
               (a)   Whether the proposed use will be in harmony and compatible
with the character of the surrounding area.
               (b)   Whether the proposed use will result in an over-intensive
use of the building or land.
               (c)   Whether the proposed use will cause significant air, water
or noise pollution.
               (d)   Whether the proposed use is adequately landscaped,
buffered and/or screened.
               (e)   Whether the proposed use will be otherwise detrimental to
the health, safety, or welfare of the neighboring land owners or the Village of
Rochester.
            (4)   Transferability. The license shall be effective only to the
person to whom the same is issued and upon the premises described in the
application. No transfer is allowed.
      3.   Exception. No maximum number of cats pursuant to subsection 1 shall
be imposed, nor shall a kennel license be required for the keeping of more than
the maximum number of cats pursuant to subsection 3, for agriculturally zoned
farm premises of at least three acres where cats are kept for the purpose of
rodent control. While the number of cats is not limited on said premises, the
cats present on the premises shall be cared for and adequate food, shelter and
water shall be provided.
   M.   Vicious animals.
      1.   With the exception of animals under the control of law enforcement,
no person shall own, keep or harbor a vicious animal. Evidence that an animal
has, without provocation, bitten or inflicted injury on a person or domestic
animal two or more times during the subject animal’s life, or did bite or
inflict injury once, causing wounds or injuries creating death or a potential
danger to the health or life of the victim, shall constitute a prima facie
showing that the animal is vicious. Any animal trained or used for fighting
against another animal shall be presumed to be vicious under this section.
      2.   Disposition of nuisance or vicious animals.
         a.   Upon verified notification of a violation of this section, the
Village Board will make a determination as to whether the animal is vicious.
         b.   In making its determination, the Village Board shall consider the
circumstances, and may determine that an animal is not vicious if:
            (1)   Death, injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at the
time such was sustained, was committing trespass upon premises occupied by the
owner of the animal, or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the
animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime or violating or
attempting to violate a statute or ordinance which protects person or property.
            (2)   Death, injury or damage was sustained by a domestic animal
which was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal, provided,
however, that this section shall not apply if the animal is trained or used for
fighting.
            (3)   The animal was protecting or defending a human being within
the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
         c.   No animal may be declared vicious for acts committed by the
animal while being utilized by a law enforcement officer for law enforcement
purposes.
         d.   Upon the Village Board’s determination, the Village Clerk shall
serve written notice and order, hand delivered or sent by U.S. Postal Service
Certified Mail, return receipt required, giving the owner no more than ten days
from receipt of the notice and order, to dispose of the animal and show proof
of the relocation of the animal and the place of its relocation or a
certificate of euthanization. If the owner does not dispose of such animal it
may be impounded and euthanized.
         e.   If the owner wishes to appeal the order of the Board, such appeal
shall be in writing and filed with the Village Clerk no more than ten days
after receipt of the notice and order, or within the time designated on the
order. Upon receipt of a written appeal, the Village Board shall conduct a
hearing on the matter. The Board shall thereafter render a written decision
that the animal is dangerous and must be euthanized or is not dangerous and
shall remain with the owner.
      3.   The owner of any animal which is impounded and/or euthanized shall
be held responsible for payment of any expenses incurred by animal control or
the impoundment facility. Failure to pay such fee within 15 days after
impoundment or destruction of such animal shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   N.   Keeping Animals Other than Typical Pets; Prohibited Animals.
      1.   Animals Other than Typical Pets. Any person wishing to raise and/or
maintain any animal or fowl, other than a dog, cat, or captive-bred species of
caged bird, rodent, turtle, fish, non-poisonous, non-constricting snake, or
livestock kept in conformance with this section, must obtain a Special
Exception Permit issued by the Village Board as set forth in subsection Q.
      2.   Prohibited Animals.
         a.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall
keep, maintain, or have in his possession or under his control within the
Village any livestock or poultry, or any polecat, skunk, raccoon, fox, game or
game birds, nor shall any person keep a hybrid cat or hybrid dog.
         b.   No person shall keep, maintain, or have in his possession or
under his control within the Village any nuisance animal as set forth in
subsection I, or any vicious animal as set forth in subsection M, as determined
by the Village Board, or as determined by, and/or ordered removed from, any
court, municipality, town, county or state.
         c.   No person shall keep, maintain, or have within his possession or
under his control within the Village any poisonous reptile or any other
dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any vicious or dangerous
domesticated animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious or
dangerous propensities, including but not limited to:
            (1)   All poisonous animals and reptiles including rear-fang snakes
            (2)   Apes: Chimpanzees (Pan); gibbons (Hylobates); gorillas
(Gorilla) orangutans (Pongo); ans siamangs (Symphalangus)
            (3)   Baboons (Papoi, Mandrillus)
            (4)   Bears (Ursidae)
            (5)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus)
            (6)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia) 30 inches in length or more
            (7)   Constrictor Snakes, four feet in length or more
            (8)   Coyotes (Canis latrans)
            (9)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta)
            (10)   Game cocks and other fighting birds
            (11)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidea)
            (12)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae)
            (13)   Jaguars (Panthera onca)
            (14)   Leopards (Panthera pardus)
            (15)   Lions (Panthera leo)
            (16)   Lynxes (Lynx)
            (17)   Monkeys, old world (Cercopithecidae)
            (18)   Pumas (Felis concolor); also known as cougars, mountain
lions and panthers
            (19)   Ocelots (Felis pardalis)
            (20)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae)
            (21)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia)
            (22)   Tigers (Panthera tigris)
            (23)   Wolves - red wolf (Canis Lupus), gray timber (Canis Nigar),
or hybrid dog part wolf
            (24)   Poisonous insects
            (25)   Wild animals as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 169.01(37)
            (26)   Exotic birds.
      3.   Exceptions.
         a.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to pet shops,
zoological gardens, circuses, professional animal acts, game farms and wild
life exhibits if Special Exception Permits are granted pursuant to subsection Q
and:
            (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the zoning
ordinance of the Village, and all appropriate zoning and building permits are
issued;
            (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
            (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to
prevent their escape; and
            (4)   No person lives within three hundred feet of the quarters in
which the animals are kept.
         b.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the keeping
of livestock and poultry on agriculturally zoned farm premises of at least five
acres.
   O.   Proximity to Dwellings of Others. No person having possession of or in
control of any animal or fowl (other than dogs and cats) shall allow the same
to be kept closer than 300 feet to any dwelling house other than that of such
person.
      1.   Nonconforming Use. The lawful nonconforming use of a parcel of real
estate existing at the time of the adoption of this Chapter may be continued,
although the use does not conform with the provisions of this section; however:
         a.   Only that portion of the land in actual use may be so continued
and the nonconforming use may not be extended to additional lands; and
         b.   The nonconforming use must be in compliance with any terms and
conditions of the zoning affecting the property.
         c.   Discontinuance of nonconforming use. If a nonconforming use is
discontinued or terminated for a period of twelve months, any future use of the
structure or land shall conform to the provisions of this section.
         d.   Current File. A current file of all nonconforming uses and
structures shall be maintained by the Village Clerk to the extent it is
reasonably practical to do so listing the following: property location, use of
the structure or land and date the use became nonconforming.
      2.   Exceptions. Any person wishing an exception to this section shall
apply for a Special Exception Permit pursuant to subsection Q of this section.
   P.   Restriction on Number of Livestock and Other Non-Domestic Animals.
      1.   Except as provided in subsection 2, no person shall place, allow or
consent to the placement on his or her property any livestock or other non-
domestic animals on a parcel of land less than five acres in area.
      2.   Exceptions. The restriction set forth in subsection 1 shall not
apply to:
         a.   Agriculturally zoned parcels of real estate which are equal to or
greater than five acres.
         b.   A property owner who has obtained a Special Exception Permit
pursuant to subsection Q of this section.
         c.   Parcels of real estate which are contiguous to other parcels
owned by the same individual or members of the owner’s immediate family, such
as parents, children or siblings, which in aggregate are equal to or greater
than five acres in area.
         d.   Legal Nonconforming Use. The lawful nonconforming use of a parcel
of real estate existing at the time of the adoption of this Code may be
continued, although the use does not conform with the provisions of this
section; however:
            (1)   Only that portion of the land in actual use may be so
continued and the nonconforming use may not be extended to additional lands;
and
            (2)   The nonconforming use must be in compliance with any terms
and conditions of a zoning ordinance affecting the property.
            (3)   Discontinuance of nonconforming use. If a nonconforming use
is discontinued or terminated for a period of twelve months, any future use of
the structure or land shall conform to the provisions of this section.
            (4)   Current File. A current file of all nonconforming uses and
structures shall be maintained by the Village Clerk to the extent it is
reasonably practical to do so listing the following: property location, use of
the structure or land and date the use became nonconforming.
   Q.   Special Exception Permit. Notwithstanding any provision contained in
this chapter to the contrary, in the event that a person wishes to raise and/or
maintain any animal or fowl as otherwise contrary to subsection N of this
section, or a property owner seeks to place, allow or consent to the placement
of livestock or other non-domestic animals within 300 feet of a dwelling unit
as otherwise contrary to subsection O of this section, or place such animals on
property containing less than five acres contrary to subsection P of this
section, said person or property owner shall apply for a Special Exception
Permit, which shall require the approval of the Village Board. Special
Exception Permits may be granted by the Village Board for the presence of more
than the number of dogs or cats allowed in a residence set forth in subsection
L only under the following circumstances: for the combination of households
when the occupants already own animals (for the life of the animals); for the
temporary keeping of dogs and/or cats during a deployment (for the term of the
deployment); and for the addition of a service dog to a household.
      1.   Application. Not less than twenty days prior to the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Public Works Committee, the applicant shall pay a fee
in an amount set by the Village Board and set forth on the fee schedule, and
shall file with the Village Clerk an application setting forth the following:
         a.   The parcel of real estate that is the subject of the request.
         b.   The specific type or types and number of animals which the
applicant proposes to place on the subject property.
         c.   A statement addressing the factors which the Village Board will
consider for approval as set forth in subsection 2.
         d.   A site plan of the affected parcel of real estate which shows the
following:
            (1)   The area where the animals will be penned, including the
distance that any such pen will be set back from adjacent property owners.
            (2)   Manure storage areas. Additionally as an attachment to said
site plan, the applicant shall include a written plan for how the applicant
will provide for the regular removing, spreading or other disposal of manure so
that it does not become unsightly or emit odor beyond the property boundary or
become a public nuisance.
            (3)   Adequate drainage facilities located on the property or to be
implemented by the property owner so as to protect surrounding properties from
surface water discharge containing contaminants including but not limited to
sediment or organic waste.
      2.   Determination. Upon receipt of the application the Humane Officer
shall inspect the premises, and report his or her findings to the Public Works
Committee, which shall then make a recommendation to the Village Board. The
Village Clerk shall send notice of the application and Public Works Committee
meeting to the abutting neighbors at least ten days before the Public Works
Committee meeting. Upon receipt of the Public Works Committee’s recommendation,
the Village Board shall vote to approve the Permit, deny the Permit, or request
additional information from the applicant which shall be provided at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board. Additionally, the Village
Board may place certain conditions on its approval of the application which
reasonably impact the health, safety and welfare of the Village of Rochester.
In reviewing the application and when placing conditions on any such approval,
where applicable, the Village Board shall consider the following factors:
         a.   Whether the proposed use will be in harmony and compatible with
the character of the surrounding area.
         b.   Whether the proposed use will result in an over-intensive use of
the building or land.
         c.   Whether the proposed use will cause significant air, water or
noise pollution.
         d.   Whether the proposed use is adequately landscaped, buffered and/
or screened.
         e.   Whether the proposed use will be otherwise detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare of the neighboring land owners or the Village of
Rochester.
      3.   Term of Permit. Any permit issued hereunder for a special exception
to the requirements of subsection N shall be for one year, or a shorter term if
specified by the Village Board. The term of a special exception to the
requirements of subsection O or P shall be two years, and the permit shall be
subject to renewal upon application to the Village Board and payment of the
required license fee. The license shall be effective only to the person to whom
the same is issued and upon the premises described in the application. No
transfer is allowed.
   R.   Suspension, Revocation, and Refusal to Renew Licenses or Permits.
      1.   A license or permit issued under this Section may be suspended or
revoked by the Village Board at any time after the issuance of the same, and
the Village Board may refuse to renew a license or permit, upon giving to such
applicant, or any person in possession of the premises, 15 days’ notice of such
suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew by personal service or by certified
mail addressed to the license or permit holder
      2.   The Village Board’s action shall be for cause. “Cause” as used
herein shall be defined as the license or permit holder’s failure to comply
with any condition placed on said license or permit, failure to maintain the
premises in a manner consistent with the license or permit, or conviction of a
violation of this section or any ordinance, statute or regulation related to
the keeping or treatment of animals, public or animal health, public nuisance,
or other related provision.
      3.   A license or permit holder whose license or permit has been
suspended, revoked or not renewed may appeal said decision to the Village Board
by filing written notice of the appeal with the Village Clerk within 15 days of
receipt of the notice of the suspension, cancellation or revocation. The
Village Board shall a hearing on the appeal as soon as possible after receipt
of the notice of appeal, and proceedings on the suspension, cancellation or
revocation shall be suspended until the hearing is held and the Board issues
its decision. The Village Board shall issue its determination in writing within
15 days of the hearing and shall serve that determination personally or by
certified mail. A person adversely affected by the Board's decision may seek
judicial review by commencing an action in circuit court within 30 days after
the decision is issued.
      4.   If a permit is suspended, revoked or not renewed, the license or
permit holder shall have fifteen days from the date of receipt of the letter or
determination by the Village Board to comply with the provisions therein.
   S.   Penalties. In addition to any penalty specifically set forth in this
section, any person who violates any provision of this section or any
regulation or rule, or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
Village from maintaining any appropriate action to prevent or remove a
violation of any provision of this Chapter by injunction or other equitable
relief.
 
Notes
1 1 Amended by Ordinance 2018-4, Adopted 1.8.18
9-2. NON-INTOXICATING AND SODA WATER BEVERAGES.
   A.   License Required. No person shall operate, conduct or maintain within
the Village of Rochester any business of selling non-intoxicating beverages as
defined in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0433(1) or soda water beverages as defined in Wis.
Stat. s. 66.0433(2), whether at retail or wholesale, without first procuring a
license to do so as hereinafter provided. Licenses shall be issued by the
Village Clerk under the authority of the Village Board.
   B.   Application. Applications for licenses shall be filed with the Village
Clerk for presentment to the Village Board at any regular or special meeting
thereof. All applications shall specify the type of beverages to be sold
(either non-intoxicating or soda water or both) and whether consumption shall
be off or on the premises, and shall be accompanied by a license fee as
determined by the Village Board and set forth on the Fee Schedule. In the event
the license is denied the fee shall be returned upon demand. The premises to be
licensed shall be described in the application.
   C.   Expiration. All licenses issued pursuant to this section shall expire
on the 30th day of June next succeeding the date of issue.
   D.   Relocation. In case of relocation of the place of business from the
premises designated in the license to another location in the Village within
the license period, the licensee shall give notice of such change of location
and the license shall be amended accordingly without payment of any additional
fee. No such license, however, shall be transferable from one person to
another.
   E.   No Non-intoxicating Beverage License shall be granted to any person in
violation of Wis. Stat. s. 66.0433(1)(b).
9-3. INTOXICATING LIQUOR AND FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGES.
   A.   State Statutes Adopted. The provisions of Chapter 125 of the Wisconsin
Statutes relating to the sale, procurement, consumption and handling of
fermented malt beverages and intoxicating liquors and the licensing of parties
involved therein, together with all amendments, revisions, and other changes
made to said statutes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section by
reference, exclusive of any provision thereof relating to the penalty to be
imposed or the punishment for violation of said statutes.
   B.   Licenses.
      1.   When Required. No person, except as provided in subsection A, shall
distribute, vend, sell, offer or keep for sale at retail or wholesale, deal or
traffic in, or, for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverage, or cause the same to be done,
without having procured a license or permit as provided herein, nor without
complying with all the provisions of this section, and all applicable state
statutes, ordinances and regulations of the State of Wisconsin and the Village
of Rochester.
      2.   Separate License Required for Each Place of Sale. Except as provided
under Wis. Stat. ss. 125.27 (2) (a) and 125.51 (5) (c) 1., each person shall
have a separate license covering each location or premises, except a licensed
public warehouse, from which deliveries and sales of alcohol beverages are made
or at which alcohol beverages are stored. No license shall be issued to any
person for the purpose of possessing, selling, or offering for sale any
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in any dwelling, house, flat or
residential apartment.
      3.   There shall be the following classes and denominations of licenses
which shall be issued by the Clerk upon approval of the Village Board (except
as set forth herein), after payment of the fee for the license as determined by
the Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule. As used in this section, a
“Class B Combination License” includes a Retail “Class B” Intoxicating Liquor
License and a Retail Class “B” Fermented Malt Beverage License, and a “Class A
Combination License” includes a Retail “Class A” Intoxicating Liquor License
and a Retail Class “A” Fermented Malt Beverage License. A “Combination” license
is not a separate license.
         a.   Retail “Class B” Intoxicating Liquor pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
125.51(3).
            (1)   Minimum Fee for Reserve "Class B" Licenses. Any person
seeking the initial issuance of a reserve "Class B" license will not only pay
the annual "Class B" license fee, but an initial issuance fee as provided in
Wis. Stat. 125.51(3) and (4). The holder of a reserve "Class B" license shall,
upon renewal, pay only the fee established for a regular "Class B" license.
         b.   Retail Class “B” Fermented Malt Beverage pursuant to Wis. Stat.
s. 125.26(2).
         c.   Retail “Class A” Intoxicating Liquor pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
125.51(2).
         d.   Retail Class “A” Fermented Malt Beverage pursuant to Wis. Stat.
s. 125.25.
         e.   “Class C” Wine License pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.51(3m).
         f.   Operator's License pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.17.
         g.   Provisional Operator’s License pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.17
(5).
         h.   Temporary Class “B” Fermented Malt Beverage Licenses pursuant to
Wis. Stat. s. 125.26(6).
         i.   Temporary “Class B” Wine Licenses pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
125.51(10).
         j.   Provisional Retail Licenses pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.185.
      4.   License Applications. Applications for licenses to sell or deal in
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages shall be made in writing on the
form prescribed by law, shall be sworn to by applicant, and shall be filed with
the Village Clerk not less than 15 days prior to the granting of such license.
Such application shall be accompanied by the cost of publication required in
Wis. Stat. s. 125.04(3)(g)6. No license shall be issued until the license fee
is paid. No other licenses shall be granted for the sale or trafficking of
fermented malt beverages or intoxicating liquors except those specified in
subsection 3.
      5.   Operator's Licenses.
         a.   An Operator's license pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.17 may be
issued by the Village Board to persons who meet the requirements of Wis. Stat.
ss. 125.04 and 125.17. A written application shall be filed with the Village
Clerk on a form provided therefore, together with consent to perform a
background check, and if a new applicant, a copy of the applicant’s beverage
training certificate. Upon approval of the application by a majority vote of
the Village Board and payment of the license fee, the Clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license to expire on June 30 next following.
         b.   Provisional Operator's license. The provisions of Wis. Stat. ss.
125.17(5) and (6) apply. The Village Clerk may issue provisional operator's
licenses as follows:
            (1)   A provisional operator's license may only be issued to a
person who has completed an application for an operator's license and paid the
required fees.
            (2)   The Village Clerk shall issue a provisional operator's
license to a person who, at the time the person applies for an operator's
license with the Village, files a certified copy of a valid operator's license
issued by another municipality, or who shows proof that the person is enrolled
in the required responsible beverage server training course, or is qualified
under Wis. Stat. s. 125.17(6)(a), and who otherwise meets the requirements of
this section.
            (3)   The Village Clerk shall perform the standard background check
on the applicant prior to issuance of a provisional operator's license.
            (4)   The Village Clerk may not issue a provisional operator's
license to a person who has been denied an operator's license by the Village.
            (5)   A provisional operator's license expires 60 days after its
issuance or when an operator's license is issued to the applicant, whichever is
sooner. If the provisional operator's license was issued to a person upon proof
that the person was licensed by another municipality, the provisional
operator's license shall expire 60 days after its issuance, or when an
operator's license is issued by the Village, or upon expiration of the other
municipality's license, whichever is sooner.
            (6)   The Village Clerk may revoke the license if the Clerk
discovers that the holder of the provisional license made a false statement on
the application, the license issued by the other municipality is not valid, or
upon denial of the person's application for an operator's license.
      6.   Provisional Retail Licenses. The provisions of Wis. Stat. s 125.185
apply. A provisional retail license may be issued by the Village Clerk to a
person who has applied for a Class "A," Class "B," "Class A," "Class B," or
"Class C" license under the following conditions:
         a.   The provisional license authorizes only the activities that the
type of retail license applied for authorizes.
         b.   The provisional license expires 60 days after its issuance or
when the retail license applied for is issued to the holder, whichever is
sooner. The Village Clerk may revoke the license if the Clerk discovers that
the applicant made a false statement on the application.
         c.   The Village Clerk may not issue a retail "Class B" license if the
Village's quota under Wis. Stat. s. 125.51(4) prohibits the Village from
issuing a "Class B" license.
         d.   No person may hold more than one provisional retail license for
each type of license applied for per year.
         e.   The Village Clerk may only issue the provisional retail license
if the background check is completed and the applicant qualifies to receive the
retail license applied for.
   C.   Specified License Restrictions. In addition to the requirements imposed
by the provisions of the Wisconsin Statutes adopted by reference in subsection
A of this section, the following restrictions shall apply to the issuance of
all licenses or permits in the Village of Rochester pursuant to this section:
      1.   Requirements for Licenses. No license shall be granted to any person
not meeting the qualifications set forth in Wis. Stat. ch. 125.
      2.   A Retail Class B Combination license shall be issued only for that
portion of a premises located on the street level except in the case of a hotel
or restaurant. A license may be granted to a person (such as a partnership) not
specifically addressed under state law if said person otherwise meets the
requirements of Wis. Stat. s. 125.04.
      3.   The Village Board may refuse to grant a license under this section
to any person pursuant to subsection D.
      4.   Effect of Revocation of License. No license shall be issued for any
premises or person if a license covering such premises or person has been
revoked within 12 months prior to application pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 125.12.
      5.   Inspection of Premises. The Village Board may, at any and all
reasonable times as it may deem necessary and proper cause any premises
licensed under this section to be inspected by the Health Officer, Fire
Inspector, and/or Building Inspector, to determine whether the applicant,
licensee and the premises licensed or sought to be licensed complies with the
regulations, ordinances, and laws applicable thereto. These officials, or any
one of them, shall furnish to the Village Board, in writing, the information
derived from such inspection within ten days from the inspection thereof. No
license or permit provided for in this section shall be issued without the
approval of a majority of the Village Board and no license shall be renewed if
any inspection as herein provided indicates or reveals any violation of any
Village Ordinance or State Law.
      6.   Health and Sanitation. No license shall be issued for any premises
which does not conform to the sanitary, safety and health requirements of the
State of Wisconsin and to all ordinances and regulations adopted by the Village
Board.
      7.   Tax Delinquencies. No license shall be granted for any person or
operation of any premises for which taxes or assessments or other financial
claims of the Village of Rochester are delinquent.
      8.   Location of Premises. No Retail Class B Combination License or
Retail “Class A” License shall be issued for any premises less than 300 feet
from an established public or parochial school, hospital or church. Such
distance shall be measured via the shortest route along the highway or street
from the closest point of the boundary of such school, church or hospital to
the closest entrance of or to such premises.
      9.   Entry upon Premises. Every applicant applying for and procuring a
license thereby consents to the entry on the licensed premises of law
enforcement, or other duly authorized representatives of the Village, including
the Health Officer, Building Inspector, Deputies, Village Clerk, Village
Treasurer, Village President, and Village Trustees at all reasonable times for
the purpose of inspection and search, and consents to the removal from said
premises of all things and articles there had in violation of Village
Ordinances and State Laws, and consents to the introduction of such things and
articles in evidence in any prosecution that may be brought for such offense.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the terms "premises" and "licensed premises"
shall include all living rooms directly or indirectly connected with such
premises which are not in another story.
      10.   Hours of Operation.
         a.   No premises licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor at
retail shall, during the days or hours they are required to close, or during
the hours in which the sale of liquor is prohibited, obstruct, by the use of
curtains, blinds, screens, or any other manner, a full and complete view of the
interior from the outside. During the hours in which the sale of intoxicating
liquors is permitted the premises shall be properly and adequately lighted.
         b.   No premises for which a license has been issued under this
section for the sale or trafficking of fermented malt beverages or intoxicating
liquors shall remain open for the sale of such beverages, and no person shall
sell such beverages and liquors in violation of Wis. Stat. ss. 125.32(3) and
125.68 (4).
      11.   Credit. No Retail Class A, B or C licensee shall sell or offer to
sell any intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages to any person on
credit, excepting by use of credit cards, credit extended by a hotel or a
resident guest or by grocers or druggists or restaurateurs who maintain a
credit system in connection with other purchases as well. It shall be unlawful
for such licensee to sell such beverages or liquors to any person on a passbook
or store order, or to receive from any person any goods, wares, merchandise, or
other articles in exchange for intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages.
      12.   Orderly Houses. Each licensed premises shall at all times be
conducted in an orderly manner, and no disorderly, riotous or indecent conduct
shall be allowed at any time on any licensed premises.
      13.   Slot Machines. No slot machines shall be kept upon the licensed
premises at any time.
      14.   Grease Interceptors. No license shall be issued or renewed for any
premises which does not comply with the Wisconsin Plumbing Code. Compliance
requires that all plumbing installations for commercial and industrial
occupancies where grease, fats, oils or similar waste products of cooking or
food are introduced into the building’s drain system shall be equipped with
grease interceptors.
         a.   All drains and drain piping carrying oil, grease or fats shall be
directed through one or more grease interceptors.
         b.   All grease interceptors and tanks shall be cleaned and emptied on
a regular basis in order to prevent grease from entering the public sewer
system.
         c.   Applicants for new licenses or renewal of existing licenses shall
submit copies of all receipts received from a grease removal or disposal firm
that removed grease from the required interceptors in or on said premises. Such
receipts shall cover the past 12 month period and specify the following
information:
            (1)   Dates of grease removal.
            (2)   Quantity of grease removed in pounds and/or gallons.
            (3)   Location of interior and exterior grease interceptors and
tanks.
            (4)   Cost of grease removal and disposal.
         d.   Prior to license approval, the facility will be inspected by the
Village's Building Inspector to insure compliance with existing Wisconsin
Plumbing Code.
   D.   Granting, Denying, Revoking, Suspending and Refusing to Renew Licenses.
      1.   Granting of Licenses. Opportunity shall be given by the Village
Board to any person to be heard for or against the granting of any license.
      2.   Denial of a License. The Village Board may refuse to grant a license
as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 125.12(3m), and if a license is refused, a
written notice thereof, including the reasons for the decision, shall be given
to the applicant. Rational reasons for denial of a license authorizing the sale
of liquor or fermented malt beverages include, but are not limited to: failure
to meet statutory and ordinance qualifications; the falsification of an
application; adverse impact on traffic; adverse impact on the neighborhood;
insufficient parking; proximity to other licensed establishments or residences;
or availability of and ability of law enforcement services to serve the
establishment balanced against the needs of the community. Rational reasons for
denial of an operator’s license or approval of an agent shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the failure to meet statutory and ordinance
qualifications, or the falsification of an application.
      3.   Approval. Upon the approval of the application by the Village Board,
the Village Clerk shall, upon the filing by the applicant of a receipt from the
Village Treasurer showing payment for the license, issue the license which
shows the serial number, describes specifically the premises licensed, the date
of issuance, the fee paid, and the name of the licensee and premises for which
issued.
      4.   Term. All licenses shall remain in force until the 30th day of June
next following the granting thereof, unless a shorter term is specified, and
unless sooner revoked in the manner set forth in subsection 6. Licenses issued
for less than one year shall be issued pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss. 125.26(4) and
(5) and 125.51 (9), as applicable to the type of license.
      5.   Transfer. No licenses shall be transferable either as to licensee or
location, except as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 125.04(12), and where a transfer
is allowed, a transfer fee in an amount determined by the Village Board and set
forth in the Fee Schedule shall be paid.
      6.   Revocation and suspension of licenses. Proceedings for revocations
and suspensions of licenses shall be instituted pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
125.12 when a sworn complaint against the licensee is filed with the Village
Clerk by a resident of the Village. If the complaint is based on the accrual of
demerit points as set forth herein, the complaint shall specify the violations
constituting the demerit point accrual. If the complaint is based upon
violations outside of the accrual of demerit points, it shall be so stated and
the procedures set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 125.12 shall be followed. When a
penalty is imposed, the Clerk shall report the same as set forth in Wis. Stat.
s. 125.13.
         a.   Pursuant to the authority granted in Wis. Stat. s. 125.10, the
Village Board, upon learning of a violation of state law, federal law or
Village ordinance which occurred on the licensed premises by the licensee,
agent, employee, or co-owner, shall order a review of the license and,
depending on the seriousness of the violation, may suspend or revoke the
license. If the violation of state law falls under Wis. Stat. chs. 125 or 139,
or other Wisconsin Statute, the Wisconsin Administrative Code, or Village
ordinance, the violation will fall into the demerit point schedule.
         b.   Violations are assigned demerit points dependent on the severity
of the violation. When a licensee obtains 100 or more demerit points for
violations of Wis. Stat. chs. 125 and/or 139, or violations of state laws, the
Wisconsin Administrative Code or any other local ordinance, which occur on the
licensed premises by a licensee, agent, employee, or co-owner within the same
license year, proceedings for revocation or suspension shall be commenced.
            (1)   If 100 demerit points are obtained, the Village Board shall
hold a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in the same manner as found in
Wis. Stat. s. 125.12(2)(b)1 to 5, with the exception of the penalties, which
shall be imposed by the Village Board as set forth herein.
            (2)   If the Village Board finds the violations to be true, the
Village Board shall suspend the license for not less than three days nor more
than five days.
            (3)   If the licensee obtains a combined total of 160 demerit
points within the same license year, the Village Board shall hold a hearing.
The hearing process shall remain the same as the above. The penalties, if the
Village Board finds the violation to be true, shall be a suspension of not less
than five days nor more than 10 days.
            (4)   If the licensee obtains a combined total of 200 demerit
points within the same license year, the Village Board shall hold a hearing as
set forth above. The penalty, if the Village Board finds the violation to be
true, shall be revocation of the license.
            (5)   If the licensee does not appear at the hearing, the Village
Board shall find the violations to be true and shall recommend the prescribed
penalty which would be derived from the combined point total.
            (6)   If the license is revoked, s.
9-3.C.4. shall be applied after a hearing is held and the allegations found
true.
            (7)   Suspension by the Village Board may run concurrent with any
court-imposed suspension if the Village Board so desires.
      c.   The following is a list of violations and the respective demerit
points:
Violation of state or federal law which occurs on the licensed premises: 100
Failing to permit a liquor license inspection of the premises:           100
Violation of local ordinance which occurs on the licensed premises:      50
Underage person being served alcohol on licensed premises:               40
Underage person on licensed premises:                                    40
Permitting unauthorized person to sell alcohol on licensed premises:     30
Unlicensed person selling alcohol:                                       30
Serving an intoxicated person alcohol on premises:                       30
After-hours violation (serving or hours:                                 25
Keeping a disorderly or riotous house:                                   25
All other violations of Wis. Stat. ch. 125:                              20
Violations of Wisconsin Administrative Code:                             20
 
         d.   A licensee will be considered in violation if the licensee,
agent, employee, or co-owner was arrested or cited for said violation. A
dismissal of a criminal charge or civil forfeiture case which is subject to
demerit points shall not, as a matter of procedure, nullify said charge for the
purpose of a review before the Village Board due to the differing burdens of
proof and procedural requirements.
         e.   Demerit points shall also be assessed on warnings issued. The
amount of points for the warning will be one-half of the above-scheduled
points.
         f.   The Village Board may issue an order to the licensee along with
the imposed suspension to prohibit such activities which are directly related
to the licensed premises which may cause violations of ordinances or state
statutes off premises.
         g.   The licensee will be notified of the impending suspension or
revocation hearing by a written summons from the Village Clerk pursuant to Wis.
Stat. s. 125.12(2)(ar). The summons shall have a date and time when and where
the Village Board will hold the hearing.
         h.   Upon completion of this process, if the suspended or revoked
licensee wishes to appeal the decision of the Village Board, the licensee may
do so by following the procedures outlined in Wis. Stat. s. 125.12(2)(d).
      7.   Refusal to renew license. The Village may refuse to renew a license
for the reasons set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 125.12(2)(ag) and this section, and
shall follow the procedures for notice and hearing in such case as set forth in
Wis. Stat. s. 125.12(3).
   E.   Posting of Licenses. Every license for the sale of intoxicating liquors
and fermented malt beverages shall be placed in a suitable document frame, so
that the whole of such license may be seen therein, and shall be posted and at
all times displayed in a conspicuous place in the room where such business is
carried on, so that all persons visiting such place may readily see the same.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post any likeness of any Village license
upon any premises, or to deface or destroy any license granted pursuant to this
section, or to remove the same without the consent of the licensee. Whenever a
license or permit is lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the holder
or his agents, a duplicate in lieu thereof under the original application shall
be issued by the Village Clerk on satisfying him- or herself as to the facts of
a loss and upon payment of a fee in an amount determined by the Village Board
and set forth in the Fee Schedule.
   F.   Temporary Permission Void. Except as set forth in this Section, no
official, board or committee shall have any authority to give permission,
whether temporary or otherwise, to any person to do anything for which a
license under this section is required unless such license has actually been
granted. Unauthorized permission shall be of no effect and shall not constitute
a defense in an action brought for the violation of this section or any part
thereof.
   G.   Sale to Minor or Intoxicated Person. Every keeper of any place for the
sale of any beverage required to be licensed who shall sell, vend or in any
manner deal or traffic in, or for the purpose of evading any law of this state
or the Village, give away beverages in any quantity whatsoever to or for a
minor, or to an intoxicated person in violation of Wis. Stat. ss. 125.07(1) or
(2), and any person who shall do so shall be punished by a fine in the amount
specified in Wis. Stat. s. 125.07 together with the cost of prosecution.
   H.   Presence of Minors in Places of Sale Prohibited. Every keeper of any
place of any nature or character whatsoever for the sale of any intoxicating
liquor or fermented malt beverage, who shall either directly or indirectly
suffer or permit any person under the legal drinking age in violation of Wis.
Stat. ss. 125.07(3) or (4), unaccompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or
suffer or permit any person to whom the sale of any such liquors has been
forbidden in the manner provided by law, shall, for every such offense, be
liable for a penalty as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 125.07 together with the
costs of prosecution. Any person so remaining as aforesaid, shall also be
liable for a penalty as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 125.07 in addition to the
cost of prosecution. Any person to whom the sale of any such liquors has been
forbidden in the manner provided by law who shall enter any place of any nature
or character whatsoever for the sale of such liquors shall be deemed in
violation hereof, and subject to the penalties set forth.
   I.   Penalties for Violation. Penalties imposed under this section shall not
exceed the maximum allowed by Chapter 125 of the Wisconsin Statutes.
9-4. CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   A.   License Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner,
directly or indirectly, upon any pretense or by any device, to manufacture,
sell, exchange, barter, dispose of or give away, or keep for sale any
cigarettes, electronic vaping devices, tobacco products, cigarette paper or
cigarette wrapper, or any paper made or prepared for the purpose of being
filled with tobacco, to any person not holding a license hereunder or a permit
issued pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss. 139.30 to 139.41 or 139.79, without first
obtaining a license therefor as set forth in this section.
   B.   Issuance and Term. Licenses for the manufacture, sale, exchange,
barter, disposition of or giving away or keeping for sale of cigarettes,
electronic vaping devices, tobacco products, cigarette papers or cigarette
wrappers or any paper made or prepared for the purpose of being filled with
tobacco for smoking shall be issued by the Village Clerk under the authority of
the Village Board. Every such license shall be issued on the first day of July
in each year (or after July 1 when applied for) and shall continue in force
from the date of issuance until the succeeding thirtieth day of June, unless
sooner revoked for violation of this section as set forth in this section.
   C.   Application. Every person desiring a license under this section shall
file with the Village Clerk an application therefor stating the name of the
person and specifically describe the premises for which such license is
desired. Every license shall be signed by the Village Clerk and shall
specifically describe the premises where the applicant is authorized to conduct
such business. Said license shall not be transferable from one person to
another nor from one premises to another.
   D.   Fee. The fee for said license shall be in an amount determined by the
Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, and the license shall not be
delivered by the Clerk until the applicant pays the license fee to the
Treasurer.
   E.   Records. Licensees shall keep written records of purchases and receipts
of cigarettes and tobacco products as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 134.65.
   F.   Violations. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be subject to a forfeiture and/or license termination as provided
under Wis. Stat. s. 134.65 and section
9-50 of this Municipal Code. See also section
7-6 of this Municipal Code (adopting Wis. Stat. s. 134.66). The Village may
refuse to renew a license if a Licensee is convicted of five or more violations
of this section and/or section
7-6 within a license year, and shall follow the procedures for notice and
hearing in such case as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 227.51.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 3-11-2024)
9-5. PEDDLERS.
   A.   License Required. No person shall engage in or follow the business or
occupation of a hawker or peddler within the corporate limits of the Village
without first having obtained a license for that purpose as hereinafter
provided.
   B.   Definitions. When used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth:
   "Peddler" means any person, whether a resident or not, who goes from house
to house, from place to place, or from street to street, or any combination
thereof, conveying or transporting goods, wares, or merchandise or offering or
exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers.
   "Canvasser" means any person, whether a resident or not, who goes from house
to house, place to place, street to street, or any combination thereof,
soliciting or taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares,
or merchandise, including but not limited to magazines, books, periodicals, or
personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future delivery, or for
personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not such individual
has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject or such order or
whether or not he or she is collecting advanced payments for such orders. This
definition includes any person who, for himself, or for another person, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, motor vehicle, trailer, structure, tent,
railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or other
place within the Village for the primary purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking order for future delivery.
   “Transient Merchant” and/or “Itinerant Merchant" means any person, whether
as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, whether a resident or not, who engages
in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise
and who, in the furtherance of such purposes, hires, leases, uses, or occupies
any building, structure, motor vehicle, trailer, tent, railroad box car, boat,
public room in a hotel, lodging house, apartment, shop, or any street, alley or
other place within the Village for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares
and merchandise, either privately or at a public auction, provided that such
definition shall not be construed to include any person who, while occupying
such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples for the
purpose of securing orders for future delivery only. The person so engaged
shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this section merely
by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant,
or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as
a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer.
   C.   Exemptions.
      1.   The terms of this section shall not be held to apply to the acts of
persons selling personal property at wholesale to dealers in such articles;
newspaper sellers or delivery persons or newspapers or other item protected by
the first amendment; the acts of merchants or their employees in delivering
goods in their regular course of business; farmers or truck gardeners who vend,
sell, or dispose of, or offer to sell, vend, or dispose of the products of the
farm or garden occupied or cultivated by him; or vendors of milk, bakery goods,
or groceries distributing products on established routes.
      2.   Nothing conveyed in this section shall be held to prohibit any sale
required by statute or by order of any court; or to prevent any person
conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law.
      3.   Any organization, society, association, or corporation designed to
solicit or have solicited in its name, money, donations of money or property,
or financial assistance of any kind or desiring to sell or distribute any item
of literature or merchandise for which a fee is charged or solicited from
persons other than persons of such organization upon the streets, in an office,
or business building, by house to house canvass, or in public places for a
charitable, religious, veterans or associated purpose, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section, provided there is filed a sworn application in
writing on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk, which shall give the
following information:
      a.   Name and purpose of the cause for which solicitation or canvassing
will occur.
         b.   Name and address of the officers and directors of the
organization.
         c.   Period during which solicitation is to be carried on.
      4.   Any veteran who holds a special state license issued pursuant to
Wisconsin law shall be exempt from the securing of a license as provided
herein, but shall be required to comply with the rules and regulations herein
provided and shall be subject to the penalties for violation of the applicable
portions of this section.
   D.   Application.
      1.   An application accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the Village
Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule to cover the costs of the investigation
of facts stated therein, shall be filed with the Village Clerk upon forms
furnished by the Village Clerk and sworn to by the applicant setting forth the
following information:
         a.   Name and physical description of the applicant.
         b.   Complete and permanent home and local address of the applicant
and in the case of transient and/or itinerant merchant, the local address from
which the proposed sale will be made.
         c.   A complete description of the nature of the business and the
goods to be sold.
         d.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials therefrom establishing the exact relationship.
         e.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
         f.   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be
sold, or orders taken for the sale thereof, where such goods or products are
located at the time said application is filed and the method of delivery.
         g.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance
related to the applicant’s business activities to be undertaken in the Village,
other than traffic violations, the nature of the offense and the punishment or
forfeiture penalty assessed therefore.
         h.   The last cities, villages, or towns, not to exceed three, where
applicant carried on business immediately preceding date of application and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
   2.   Applicants shall present to the Clerk for examination:
      a.   A driver's license or some other proof of identity as may be
reasonably required.
         b.   A state certificate of examination and approval from the Sealer
of Weights and Measures where applicant's business requires use of weighing and
measuring devices approved by state authorities.
         c.   A current state certificate and/or Health Department certificate,
as applicable, where applicant's business involves the handling of food, goods
or clothing and is required to be certified under state law, valid at least
through the end of the period that the applicant will do business in the
Village.
         d.   A current seller's permit issued by the Wisconsin Department of
Revenue, if applicable.
         e.   Information reasonably necessary to investigate other licensing
required by the state for the type of direct sales activities intended by the
applicant.
      3.   Reapplication. No licensee whose license has been revoked shall make
further application until the period of at least six months has elapsed since
the last previous revocation.
   E.   Issuance of License.
      1.   Upon proper completion of the foregoing application, the Village
Clerk, upon applicant’s payment of the prescribed license fee and submission of
the documentation required, shall refer the application to the Village’s law
enforcement officer, who may make and complete an investigation of the
statements made in such application.
      2.   The Clerk shall issue the permit if the application is in good order
and the background investigation is clear. The Clerk shall refuse to issue the
permit if it is determined, pursuant to the investigation above, that:
         a.   The application contains any material omission or materially
inaccurate statement;
         b.   Complaints of a material nature have been received against the
applicant by authorities in the last cities, villages and towns, not exceeding
three, in which the applicant conducted similar business;
         c.   The applicant was convicted of a crime, statutory violation or
ordinance violation within the last five years, the nature of which is directly
related to the applicant's fitness to engage in direct selling; or
         d.   The applicant failed to comply with any applicable provision of
s. D.2, above.
      3.   If the Clerk issues the license, the license shall contain the
signature of the licensing officers, and shall show the name and address of the
licensee, the kinds of goods to be sold thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the
date of issuance and the length of time the same shall be operative, as well as
the license number and the other identifying description of any vehicle used in
such licensed business. The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses
issued.
   F.   Fees.
      1.   In addition to the application fee, every person granted a license
pursuant to this section shall pay a daily, weekly, monthly or annual fee in an
amount set by the Village Board and set forth on the Fee Schedule.
      2.   The annual fees herein provided shall be assessed on a calendar year
basis and, on or after July 1, the amount of such fee for an annual license
shall be one-half the amount set forth in subsection 1 for the remainder of the
year.
      3.   None of the license fees required in this section shall be so
applied so as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case
where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for license to place
undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the Village Board for an
adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable, or
unfair as to such commerce. Such application may be made before, at, or within
six months after payment of the prescribed license fees. The applicant shall,
by affidavit and supporting testimony, show his method of business and the
gross volume of business and such other information as the Village Board may
deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of undue burden on
such business or commerce. The Village Board shall then conduct an
investigation, comparing applicant's business with other businesses of like
nature and shall make findings of fact from which it shall determine whether
the fees fixed by this section are unfair, unreasonable, or discriminatory as
to applicant's business and shall fix as the license fee for the applicant, an
amount that is fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or if the fee has
already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount over and above the fee so
fixed. In fixing the fee to be charged, the Village Board shall have the power
to use any method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform with
that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does
not exceed the fees as herein prescribed.
   G.   Rules and Regulations.
      1.   License Not to be Used by Another. No license issued under this
section shall at any time be used by any person other than the one to whom it
is issued.
      2.   Exhibition of License. Licensees are required to exhibit their
certificate of license at the request of any citizen.
      3.   Quitting Private Premises. No peddler, canvasser, or transient and/
or itinerant merchant shall refuse or fail to leave any private premises in the
Village upon being requested to do so by the owner, occupant, or person in
charge thereof.
      4.   Hours. No licensee may canvas, solicit, sell, peddle, or otherwise
act pursuant to a license issued hereunder between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and
9:00 a.m.
      5.   Loud Noises and Amplification Devices. No licensee, nor any person
on his behalf, shall shout, cry out, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound
amplifying device upon any street, alley, park, or other public place of the
Village or upon private premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or
produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the street,
avenue, alley, park, or other public place for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such licensee proposes to
sell.
      6.   Use of Street. No licensee shall have any exclusive right to any
location in the public streets or rights of way, nor shall any licensee be
permitted a stationary location thereon, nor shall any licensee be permitted to
operate in a congested area where such operation might impede or inconvenience
public use of such streets. For the purpose of this section, the judgment of a
law enforcement officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as
to whether the area is congested and the public impeded or inconvenienced.
      7.   Posted Property. No licensee shall call at any dwelling or other
place where a sign is displayed bearing the words “No Peddlers” or “No
Solicitors” or words of similar meaning.
      8.   Duty of Law Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the law enforcement
officers engaged by the Village to require any person seen peddling,
soliciting, or canvassing and who is not known by such officers to be duly
licensed to produce his or her license, and the officers shall enforce the
provisions of this section against any person found to be violating the same.
   H.   Expiration of License. All annual licenses issued under the provisions
of this section shall expire at midnight, the 31st day of December in the year
when issued. Other than annual licenses shall expire at midnight on the date
specified in the license.
   I.   Suspension and Revocation.
      1.   Licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter may be
suspended by the Village Board for a period not to exceed ten days upon
obtaining reasonable information that a license has violated any provision of
this section, and the same may be revoked by the Village Board after notice of
hearing, for any of the following causes:
         a.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license.
         b.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statement made in the
course of carrying on his or her business under the license.
         c.   Any violation of this section.
         d.   Conviction within the previous five years of a violation of a
felony, misdemeanor or ordinance directly related to the person’s fitness to
engage in direct selling. Wis. Stat. ss. 111.31- 111.395, Wisconsin’s Fair
Employment Law, shall apply.
         e.   Conducting business under the license in an unlawful manner, or
in such a manner as to constitute an offense, or a menace to the health, safety
or general welfare of the public.
      2.   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given by
the Village Clerk in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed
postage prepaid, to the licensee at his last known address at least five days
prior to the date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by a law enforcement
officer in the same manner as a summons at least three days prior to the date
set for hearing.
   J.   Violations and Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties set forth
in
Chapter 50 and in addition thereto, shall forfeit any license held under this
section and shall not be entitled to another such license for a period of six
months thereafter.
9-6. PUBLIC DANCES AND PUBLIC DANCE HALLS.
   A.   Definitions.
   "Public dance" as used in this section shall mean and include any dance or
ball to which the public generally may gain admission with or without the
payment of a fee, whether such dance or ball constitutes all or part of the
program or entertainment.
   "Public dance hall" as used in this section shall mean and include any room,
place or space in which a public dance may be held, or any ball room or academy
in which classes in dancing are held or instruction in dancing given for hire.
   B.   Dance Hall License Required.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to hold any public dance or classes in dancing
or to give instruction in dancing for hire in any public dance hall within the
limits of the Village of Rochester until the public dance hall in which the
same may be given or held shall first have been duly licensed for such
purposes. It shall also be unlawful for any person to permit any room or
building owned or controlled by him, to be used for the purpose of a public
dance hall unless the same shall be licensed as herein provided. Satisfactory
performance under a probationary license is required prior to application for
and approval of a regular license.
      2.   A Dance Hall License is required for the premises in which any
public dance is held whether or not a charge is made for admission, whether or
not admission is by means of a ticket or token, whether or not a dance is
advertised; and whether or not dancing is incidental to another business
conducted in the premises, where live and/or mechanical music is furnished as
music for such dancing.
   C.   Application.
      1.   Any person desiring to obtain a license required under this section
shall file a written application with the Village Clerk. The application shall
contain the name, residence and age of the applicant if an individual, the
names, residences and ages of the partners if a partnership, and the names of
the principal officers, their residences and ages, if the applicant is an
association or corporation. It shall also contain the name or names and
addresses of one or more persons whom a partnership, corporation or association
designates as the agent for purposes of accepting responsibility for
conformance with the terms of the license. The application shall further state
the following:
         a.   Length of time the applicant and agent have resided in the
Village of Rochester, their places of previous employment, whether any
applicant or agent has been convicted of violating any law or ordinance
regulating the conduct of public dance halls or public dances and, if so, when
and in what court.
         b.   The premises where the public dance or public dance hall is to be
conducted or located, giving the street and number of all entrances, the
location of the room or rooms to be occupied and the total amount of floor
space to be used for dancing purposes.
         c.   Whether the applicant and/or agent have, either alone or with
someone else, previously engaged as owner or employee in conducting a public
dance or public dance hall, when, and where and for how long.
         d.   The name and address of the person owning the premises for which
a license is sought.
         e.   Whether a hotel, rooming house or lodging house is connected to
any part of the premises for which a license is sought.
         f.   Such other information as the Village Board may deem necessary.
      2.   The Village Board shall investigate or cause an investigation to be
made to determine whether the public dance or public dance hall sought to be
licensed complies with the regulations, ordinances and laws applicable thereto,
and to determine whether the applicant qualifies for the license and whether
the agent named therein qualifies for the such a position.
   D.   Village Board Determination.
      1.   No license or permit shall be issued unless and until it shall be
found that all of the persons named in the application as applicants and agent
have not been convicted, within the previous five years, of a violation of a
felony, misdemeanor or ordinance directly related to the person’s fitness to
engage in the operation of a dance hall (Wis. Stat. ss. 111.31-111.395,
Wisconsin’s Fair Employment Law, shall apply), that the proposed public dance
hall complies with and conforms to all ordinances, health and fire regulations
applicable thereto, and that it is a safe and proper place for the purposes for
which it shall be used. The applicant for a license or permit shall show by
affidavit or otherwise that the applicant and the agent are capable of
maintaining good order at all public dances. No license shall be granted unless
these requirements are proven to the satisfaction of the Village Board. No
license shall be granted any dance hall unless adequate modern toilet
facilities are provided with the building and an adequate supply of drinking
water is available. The room shall be properly lighted and ventilated and all
parts of the premises shall be safe and sanitary.
      2.   A license or permit shall be refused by the Village Board to any
applicant or agent who has been convicted within five years of the date of
application of a second offense against any of the provisions of this section
or an ordinance of similar purpose in this or any other community, or who has
been convicted within five years of a felony or misdemeanor directly related to
the person’s fitness to operate a dance hall. Wis. Stat. ss. 111.31-111.395,
Wisconsin’s Fair Employment Law, shall apply.
      3.   No license shall be issued for any dance hall located within such
distance of a building used wholly or partly for residence purposes as will
cause improper disturbance to the residents thereof.
      4.   No license shall be refused except for a specific reason and for the
protection of the public safety, health, morals or general welfare, including
but not limited to unreasonable noise, crowd disturbances and parking problems.
      5.   No applicant to whom a license has been refused may make further
application until a period of at least six months has elapsed since the last
previous rejection, unless the applicant can show that the reason for the
denial no longer exists.
      6.   No license shall be granted to a person under 21 years of age.
      7.   No license shall be granted or renewed without an inspection or re-
inspection of the premises.
   E.   Issuance.
      1.   Probationary License.
         a.   In the event that the Village Board determines to issue a
license, the first license issued shall be probationary, shall be effective for
a period of six months, and shall be subject to revocation as provided in this
section.
         b.   A probationary license shall include a written agreement of the
applicant to comply with terms and conditions set forth by the Village Board.
Conditions may only be imposed where findings of fact based upon evidence
presented have been made and which address the safety, health and welfare of
the general population, including, but not limited to, the potential for noise,
crowd disturbances and parking problems.
         c.   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for drafting and issuing
all probationary licenses. All such licenses shall specify the name of the
holder of the license and the dates for which it is applicable as well as any
conditions that may be imposed by the Village Board. All such licenses shall be
posted at the licensed premises in plain view.
      2.   Regular License.
         a.   First Regular License.
            (1)   After an applicant has held a probationary license for period
of six months, and upon proper application, the applicant shall be eligible for
a regular license. Application for the first regular license following a
probationary license shall be made no more than 60 days, and no less than 30
days, prior to the expiration of the probationary license.
            (2)   When an application for the first regular license is
received, the Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Village law
enforcement officer to report on whether any complaints have been received
concerning the license during the term of the license. The Clerk shall include
the information received from law enforcement in the application presented to
the Village Board.
            (3)   The Village Board may approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the application for the first regular license. If the application is
denied, the Board shall specify the findings in support of the denial in
writing.
         b.   Renewals of Regular Licenses.
            (1)   Applications for renewals of regular licenses shall be made
no later than May 15th of each year.
            (2)   When an application for renewal of a regular license is
received, the Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Village law
enforcement officer to report on whether any complaints have been received
concerning the license during the term of the license. The Clerk shall include
the information received from law enforcement in the application presented to
the Village Board.
            (3)   The Village Board may approve, approve subject to conditions,
or deny the application for the renewal license. If the license is denied, the
Board shall specify the reasons therefor and shall follow the procedures for
notice and hearing in such case as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 227.51.
      3.   Upon Village Board approval of a license and the payment to the
Village of the license fee hereinafter provided, the Village Clerk is
authorized to issue to the applicant a license as set forth in this section.
All licenses shall be numbered in the order in which they are issued and shall
state clearly the location of the public dance hall, the dates of issuance and
expiration of the license, the fee paid and the name of the licensee.
   F.   Special Exemption Permit. Notwithstanding the requirement for a Dance
Hall License pursuant to this section, upon request and application of any
party not licensed hereunder, the Village Board may issue a Special Exemption
Permit allowing the applicant to afford his patrons and guests the music of one
or more musicians and/or music with dancing privileges which would otherwise
require the issuance of a license. The Special Exemption Permit shall be valid
only within a specified 24-hour period. Any request for such a permit shall be
in writing, shall specify the reason for the requested exemption, shall be
filed with the Village Clerk at least 30 days prior to the date for which the
permit is needed, and shall be accompanied by an application fee set forth by
the Village Fee Schedule. No party may be granted more than two such permits
within any calendar year.
   G.   Fees. The fees for Dance Hall Licenses and Special Exemption Permits
required by this section shall be in an amount determined by the Village Board
and set forth in the Fee Schedule, and a license shall not be delivered by the
Clerk until the applicant pays the license fee to the Treasurer.
   H.   Transfer of License. No license or permit shall be transferred as to
location of license or name of licensee. In the event that a new agent is to be
named, the applicant shall apply for an amendment of the license to reflect the
new agent’s name. The license shall be amended to reflect the new agent, who
must be approved by the Village Board.
   I.   License to be Posted; Replacement License.
      1.   Posting. Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of
this section shall immediately post such license and keep the same posted while
in force in a conspicuous place in the premises specified in the application
for such license. It shall be unlawful for any person to post such license or
to be permitted to post it upon premises other than the licensed premises, or
to knowingly deface or destroy any such license.
      2.   Loss. Whenever a license is lost or destroyed without fault on the
part of the licensee or the agent or employee of the licensee, a duplicate
license in lieu thereof under the original application may be issued by the
Village Board at its discretion.
   J.   Sanitary and Lighting Requirements. All public dance halls and
facilities appurtenant thereto shall be kept at all times in a clean, healthful
and sanitary condition, and all stairways and other passages and all rooms
connected with a public dance hall shall be kept open and well lighted during
the public use. Proper ventilation must be maintained at all times.
   K.   Power to Close. The Village Board shall have the power to cause the
place, hall or room where any public dance is held or given to be vacated
whenever any rules or regulation or any provision of any law or ordinance with
regard to public dance halls or public dances is being violated or whenever any
disorder or conduct of a violent character shall take place.
   L.   Hours. All public dance halls shall be closed on each day at or before
the hour of 2:00 a.m. provided however, that upon the application of the person
or organization holding a particular public dance, the Village Board may grant
a permit to continue such dance beyond that time where the circumstances
justify such permission. Such application shall be made at least five days
before the date on which the dance is to be held. No public dance shall be held
between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. except as otherwise provided by
this subsection. All dancing and music shall cease at 12:30 a.m.
   M.   Adult Oriented Entertainment Businesses. Any adult oriented
entertainment business applying for a Dance Hall License shall be compliant
with all provisions of
Chapter 35 of this Municipal Code.
   N.   Supervision. The members of the Village Board shall have access at all
times to any public dance halls and public dances, and may investigate all
complaints and may supervise such public dance halls and public dances.
   O.   Regulations. Every licensee, personally and through his agents or
employees shall comply with the following regulations:
      1.   Good order shall be maintained at all times. Without limitation due
to enumeration, a lack of "good order" for purposes of this section shall be
deemed to include persistent loud noises to the annoyance or detriment of the
surrounding property owners and patrons, using profane language or fighting or
disorderly conduct as defined in Village ordinances and/or state statutes.
      2.   The license holder, agent and employees shall comply with all state
statutes and regulations and all village ordinances including building code
ordinances and zoning ordinances.
      3.   The licensee, agent and employees shall obey all reasonable orders
or directions of any law enforcement officer.
   P.   Suspension and Revocation of License.
      1.   The violation of any provision of this section or the failure of the
licensee to comply with the conditions set forth in any license pertaining to
noise, parking, orderly premises, or any other condition shall be grounds for
the Village Board to suspend or revoke the issued license. In the event such
license is revoked, the fee paid for such license shall be forfeited and not
returned to the holder.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other grounds for revocation of a license,
conviction for the violation of any provision of Wisconsin laws relative to
intoxicating liquor and/or fermented malt beverage licenses, local zoning or
building or sanitary codes or disorderly conduct ordinances or laws shall be
sufficient for the Board to suspend or revoke such license. In the event such
license is revoked, the fee paid for such license shall be forfeited and not
returned to the holder.
      3.   Revocation Proceedings. A recorded hearing shall be held for the
purpose of revoking a license under this section. This hearing shall be
preceded by written notice to the holder of such license at least ten days
prior to said hearing. All hearings for revocation shall be heard before the
Village Board, and shall afford the holder of such license an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf, to cross-examine witnesses sworn under
oath by the Village President, and all such other due process rights to which
the licensee may be entitled. The Board, prior to revoking any such license,
shall make specific findings of fact to support revocation of the license. In
lieu of revoking said license, the license may be suspended, and/or conditions
may be imposed by the Village Board to address specific nuisances, dangers or
hazards.
      4.   No licensee whose license has been revoked shall be entitled to
reapply for a new probationary license unless at least one year has elapsed
from the date of such revocation.
9-7. CARRIAGE SERVICES
   A.   License Required. No person shall transport passengers in a horse-drawn
carriage in the Village of Rochester without first obtaining a Carriage
License.
   B.   Application. Application for a carriage license shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk, stating the full name of the applicant, his or
her address and date of birth, the name under which the applicant is doing
business and the location of the business. The applicant shall specify the
seating capacity of the carriage and identify the proposed hours of operation,
and shall include with the application the route upon which he or she intends
to operate, the route upon which he or she intends to travel to reach and leave
that route, and the location where the horse and carriage will stand while
waiting for fares. When applying for a license, the applicant shall consent to
a background investigation.
   C.   Term of License; Fee. Licenses granted hereunder shall expire on June
30 of each year. The fee to be paid upon application for the license shall be
determined by the Village Board and set forth in Fee Schedule for each year or
any fractional part thereof for each carriage operated by the same licensee.
   D.   Approval of License.
      1.   The Village Clerk shall perform a background investigation of the
applicant and the business. The application and the results of the
investigation shall be presented to the Village Board for its review of the
application and its decision as to the grant of the license. If the Village
Board approves the license, the Clerk shall issue said license upon the
applicant's fulfillment of section E.
      2.   If the Village Board refuses to approve the license, it shall state
the reasons on the record, and no part of the application fee shall be
refunded.
   E.   Insurance.
      1.   No license shall be issued until the applicant deposits with the
Village Clerk a policy of liability insurance covering all carriages, horses
and drivers to be included under the license. Said insurance policy shall be
issued by an insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in this
State. Coverage shall be provided in the minimum amounts of $500,000 for bodily
injury or death to any one person, $1,000,000 for injuries or death in any one
accident or occurrence caused by the operation of the horse-drawn carriage or
by the driver, the horse(s) or the carriage(s) separately or in any
combination, and $100,000 for property damage arising out of any accident or
occurrence caused by the operation of the horse-drawn carriage or by the
driver, the horse(s) or the carriage(s) separately or in any combination.
      2.   Each insurance policy shall provide that the same shall not be
canceled before the expiration of its term except upon 30 days written notice
to the Village Clerk of the Village of Rochester. The policy shall be approved
by the Village Attorney.
      3.   The cancellation or other termination of any insurance policy issued
in compliance with this section shall automatically revoke and terminate all
licenses issued for the carriages covered under said insurance policy unless
another policy shall have been filed, approved and effective prior to the time
of said cancellation or termination.
   F.   Revocation. The Village Board may revoke a license issued hereunder for
more than three violations of the Rules of Operation listed in section G., for
operation of the licensed carriage in a manner which is harmful to the safety,
health or welfare of the community, or for any violation of the provisions of
s.
9-1 of this Chapter.
   G.   Rules of Operation.
      1.   Established Routes. Licensees must adhere to the routes specified in
the license application. New or temporary routes must be applied for and
approved by the Village Board and filed with the Clerk before a licensee may
use the new or temporary route. Any deviation from the established route
without said approval shall be a violation of this subsection.
      2.   Driving Time Limit; Weather Factors. No driver shall be allowed to
drive a horse drawn carriage for more than a period of ten hours in any 24-hour
day. No carriage shall be operated while the temperature exceeds 80 degrees
Fahrenheit.
      3.   Sanitation Requirements. Licensees shall comply with the following
sanitation requirements:
         a.   All horses shall be equipped with adequate devices to prevent
manure from falling upon the streets of the Village. No driver shall allow
manure or urine to remain on any street, alley, gutter, sidewalk, lawn, field,
or any public or private property, and the driver of the animal shall
immediately remove the same by the most effective means possible.
         b.   All animal waste shall be promptly transported to sites legally
empowered to accept such waste for treatment and disposal.
      4.   Safety Requirements. The seating capacity of the carriage shall be
specified in the carriage license. No driver shall permit more passengers than
can be seated on the seats of the carriage, except children less than five
years of age may be carried by an adult. No driver shall permit any passenger
to sit alongside the driver while the driver is engaged in the operation of the
horse and carriage.
      5.   Feeding and Care of the Horses. Licensees shall ensure adequate rest
periods, feeding schedules, health and related animal performance and well-
being for each horse under the licensee's ownership, care or control. This
responsibility shall include carriage load limits, hours of operation and daily
hours of animal usage, except that no animal shall be required to work more
than ten hours per day. No animal shall be left unattended.
      6.   Certificate of Soundness Required. For each horse that will be
pulling a carriage, licensees shall provide a certificate of soundness issued
by a veterinarian licensed in this state, finding such animal to be free of
infectious disease, in good health and fit for hack and carriage service under
this section. Each horse shall be re-inspected at intervals of no more than six
months. No horse shall be used to draw a carriage unless such a certificate of
soundness, dated within the preceding six-month period, is on file with the
Village Clerk.
   H.   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this Section or who
shall transport passengers in a horse-drawn carriage within the Village of
Rochester without first obtaining a license as required herein shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties set forth in s.
9-50. Each day of continued violation of the provisions of this Section shall
be considered a separate offense.
9-8. SALE AND DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS RESTRICTED 2
   A.    State Laws Adopted. The statutory provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 167.10,
as may be amended from time to time, regulating the sale and use of fireworks,
except in so far as this ordinance is more restrictive as to use, are hereby
adopted by reference and made part of this Section as though fully set forth
herein. This Section is adopted pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 167.10(5).
   B.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
      1.   “Novelty Fireworks” means the following types of fireworks:
         - A cap containing not more than 1/4 grain of explosive mixture, if
the cap is used or possessed or sold for use in a device which prevents direct
bodily contact with a cap when it is in place for explosion.
         - A toy snake which contains no mercury.
         - A sparkler on a wire or wood stick not exceeding 36 inches in length
that is designed to produce audible or visible effects or to produce audible
and visible effects.
         - A device designed to spray out paper confetti or streamers and which
contains less than 1/4 grain of explosive mixture.
         - A fuseless device that is designed to produce audible or visible
effects or audible and visible effects, and that contains less than ¼ grain of
explosive mixture.
         - A device that is designed primarily to burn pyrotechnic smoke-
producing mixtures, at a controlled rate, and that produces audible or visible
effects, or audible and visible effects.
         - A cylindrical fountain that consists of one or more tubes and that
is classified by the Federal Department of Transportation as a Division 1.4
explosive, as defined in 49 CFR 173.50.
         - A cone fountain that is classified by the Federal Department of
Transportation as a Division 1.4 explosive, as defined in 49 CFR 173.50.
      2.   “Novelty Fireworks, Commercial” means the sale and storage of
novelty fireworks for commercial purposes, for which a temporary use permit is
required under s.
35-21.G.10.
      3.   “Statutory Fireworks” means anything manufactured, processed or
packaged for exploding, emitting sparks or combustion which does not have
another common use, inclusive of pyrotechnics, but not including any of the
following:
         - Fuel or a lubricant.
         - A firearm cartridge or shotgun shell.
         - A flare used or possessed or sold for use as a signal in an
emergency or in the operation of a railway, aircraft, watercraft or motor
vehicle.
         - A match, cigarette lighter, stove, furnace, candle, lantern or space
heater.
         - A model rocket engine.
         - Tobacco and a tobacco product.
         - Anything defined herein as "novelty fireworks."
   C.   Sale and Storage of Fireworks.
      1.   The sale and storage of statutory fireworks is prohibited within the
Village of Rochester unless such sale or storage is part of a permanent use of
land duly authorized under
Chapter 35, Planning and Zoning.
      2.   The sale and storage of novelty fireworks for commercial purposes is
prohibited within the Village without a Temporary Use Permit under s.
35-21.G.10. unless such sale or storage is part of a permanent use of land duly
authorized under
Chapter 35, Planning and Zoning..
   D.   Use of Statutory Fireworks.
      1.   Use prohibited without a permit. The use of statutory fireworks is
prohibited in the Village of Rochester unless the fireworks are used pursuant
to a user permit issued by the Village of Rochester, according to the
provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 167.10(3) and all of the requirements and
limitations of this Section
9-8.
      2.   User permit. A user permit application for the discharge of
statutory fireworks may be made by any owner or resident of real property in
the Village of Rochester, for intended discharge on such applicant’s property
in the Village. Such application may be made pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 167.10
(3)(c), and shall be subject to all applicable terms of this Section
9-8. Such use is restricted to the following dates: July 3, 4 or 5 each year,
subject to the following. If the 4th of July falls on a Monday or Tuesday, the
Saturday before will be allowed. If the 4th of July falls on a Wednesday or
Thursday, the Saturday after will be allowed. The application must specify the
name and address of the requested permit holder, the date on and after which
fireworks may be purchased, the general kind and approximate quantity of
fireworks which may be purchased, the date and location of the proposed use,
and the name, address and telephone number for the individual responsible for
the discharge of fireworks. All permit applications under this subsection must
be filed between May 1 and June 30.
      3.   Restrictions and limitations. In addition to all other requirements
of this Section
9-8 and applicable State laws, any use of statutory fireworks shall be subject
to the following requirements:
         a.   Wind velocity. Wind velocity at the time of use shall not be more
than 15 miles per hour as recorded or forecast by the National Weather Service
Forecast Office, Milwaukee/Sullivan, Wisconsin.
         b.   Wind direction. Wind direction at the time of use shall be away
from buildings or other combustible materials and structures and shall not
carry fireworks onto any adjoining buildings or cause annoyance or danger to
other persons or property.
         c.   The storage, use or display of permitted statutory fireworks
shall conform to the standards set forth in NFPA 1, Chapter 65, Explosives,
Fireworks and Model Rocketry, as may be amended from time to time. Every
display shall be handled by a competent adult operator. After the permit is
issued, possession, and use of fireworks shall be lawful for that purpose only.
No permit granted hereunder is transferable.
         d.   Storage and handling of statutory fireworks.
            (1)   No person may store or handle statutory fireworks on any
premises unless the premises are equipped with fire extinguishers.
            (2)   No person may smoke where statutory fireworks are stored or
handled.
            (3)   A person who stores or handles statutory fireworks shall
immediately notify the Fire Chief or Fire Inspector of the location,
description and quantity of the fireworks.
            (4)   No person may store statutory fireworks closer than the
separation distances required in NFPA 1 Chapter 65 to a dwelling.
            (5)   No person may store statutory fireworks closer than the
separation distances required in NFPA 1 Chapter 65 to public assemblages or
places where gasoline or volatile liquid is sold in quantities exceeding one
gallon.
            (6)   No person may use statutory fireworks for which a permit was
not issued while attending a fireworks display for which a permit has been
issued under this section.
         e.   Parental liability. A parent, foster, or family-operated group
home parent or legal guardian of a minor who consents to the use of any
fireworks by the minor who is under the age of 18 years of age is liable for
damages caused by the minor's use of the fireworks, and in addition shall be
subject to the penalty provided in this Municipal Code.
         f.   Fire prevention. Sufficient firefighting implements and personnel
shall be available at the scene to control any fire that may be caused by the
statutory fireworks.
         g.   Hours. Statutory fireworks may only be used between 4:00 P.M. and
10:30 P.M
         h.   Responsibility on Permitted Property. For property that is
subject to a statutory fireworks permit, only the individuals designated on the
permit application may discharge fireworks. Such individual is responsible in
case of a violation, jointly and severally with the permit holder and property
owner, and any or all of these parties may be cited for the violation. Any
damage or personal injury as a result of the ignition of fireworks shall be the
responsibility of the permit holder.
         i.   Responsibility on non-permitted property. For property that is
not permitted for the discharge of statutory fireworks, if fireworks are
discharged the actual person that caused the illegal discharge is responsible
for the violation if such person is identified to the Village’s satisfaction.
If the Village cannot determine to its satisfaction the actual person that
caused the illegal discharge, the owner or occupant of the property where the
discharge occurred will be presumed to have caused the discharge, or to have
aided or abetted the discharge, and shall be held responsible for the illegal
discharge and may be cited for the violation. Such presumption may be rebutted
only by credible evidence to show that the owner or occupant of the property
had no knowledge of the fireworks being on the property at any time prior to
the discharge, and that the owner or occupant of the property fully cooperated
with the Village in trying to identify the actual person who caused the illegal
discharge.
         j.   No sale. No person in the possession of statutory fireworks
pursuant to this section may resell those fireworks in the Village of
Rochester.
         k.   Permit availability. The permit issued for the use of fireworks
must be made available upon request of a law enforcement officer
      4.   Fee. A fee for statutory fireworks permits shall be established by
the Village Board and placed on the Fee Schedule, and must be submitted at the
time of application and shall be non- refundable.
      5.   Acceptance of risk. All fireworks discharge permits issued in the
Village are issued subject to the possibility that discharge may be prohibited,
even if the permit is issued, due to the restrictions and limitations of this
Section. All applicants accept this risk and shall be solely responsible for
all consequences of the same, by their submittal of the application.
      6.   Statutory fireworks may be possessed and used by the Village without
a permit, but Village fire and law enforcement officials must be notified of
the proposed use of fireworks at least two days in advance.
   E.   Possession of statutory fireworks.
      1.   Statutory fireworks may be possessed while transporting the
fireworks to a city, town, village or county where the possession of the
fireworks is authorized by permit or ordinance, but the person doing the
transporting may not remain in the Village for more than 12 hours.
      2.   Statutory fireworks may be sold or possessed by persons delivering
the fireworks to a person granted a permit under this Section.
   F.   Use of Novelty Fireworks. Individuals may possess and use novelty
fireworks on private property with the permission of the owner or person in
charge thereof. Novelty fireworks may be used in Village rights-of-way, but not
in the paved portion of streets. Novelty fireworks may not be used in Village
parks or in or on other Village property.
   G.   Temporary ban on all fireworks. The Village President, upon
recommendation of the Fire Chief because of extreme dryness or drought, may in
the President’s discretion declare a temporary ban on fireworks, whether
statutory or novelty. No fireworks of any kind may be discharged during a
declared ban. Any permit which would otherwise allow discharge on a date during
such ban is automatically revoked, subject to the following. Such permittee may
apply for a new discharge date after the ban is lifted without incurring a new
fee. If any of the possible discharge dates of Section
9-8.D.2. are during the ban, the Village Board shall have the authority, but
not the obligation, to establish additional discharge dates which would apply
only to those permittees who were not able to discharge fireworks on their
permitted dates due to the ban.
   H.   Seizure and destruction of fireworks; Revocation of permit.
      1.   In addition to, and not to the prejudice or exclusion of such other
penalties and remedies as may apply, any fireworks stored, handled, sold,
possessed or used by a person who violates the terms of this Section may be
seized and held as evidence of the violation. In the event a person is
convicted of violating this section all fireworks seized shall be destroyed
pursuant to the provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 167.10(8)(b), provided that, if
storage after seizure but prior to resolution of the charges is deemed too
dangerous, the seized fireworks may be destroyed pursuant to statute. Fireworks
seized as evidence of a violation for which no conviction results shall be
returned to the owner if they have not been destroyed pursuant to statute.
      2.   Any permit issued to the person under this Section shall be revoked
upon conviction for a violation of this Section.
   I.   Application for and issuance of permit.
      1.   Application. The application for a permit hereunder for statutory
fireworks be submitted to the Village Clerk and shall include the date of the
display, and shall specify the name and address of the permit holder, the kind
and quantity of fireworks that will be displayed, and the date and location of
the display. The owner or person in authority of the site of the display shall
consent in writing to the use of the site.
      2.   Review and issuance. The application shall be reviewed by the
Village Clerk, who may seek the advice of the Fire Chief. The Clerk, under the
authority of the Village President, shall issue the permit only if the
requirements of this Section are met.
         (a)   No permits shall be issued to minors.
         (b)   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant acknowledges in
writing that he or she understands and accepts that he or she is fully liable
for all bodily injury and property damage that may result from the issuance of
the permit, and the applicant indemnifies the Village for the same.
         (c)   No permit shall be issued for the storage of statutory
fireworks, except as that storage may be necessary in preparation for a display
permitted hereunder, and then only for the period set forth in this Section.
         (d)   No permit shall be issued for the indoor display or use of
statutory fireworks.
      3.   In accordance with state statute, the Village Clerk shall provide
copies of the permits issued to the municipal fire and law enforcement
officials at least 2 days before the date of authorized use.
   J.   Penalties. See Wis. Stat. s. 167.10(9)(b), which provides that a
penalty for violation of an ordinance adopted pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 167.10
(5) may not exceed $1,000. The penalties for violation of this Section shall be
set forth in the Village Deposit Schedule and shall not exceed $1000 per
violation.
 
Notes
2 2 Ordinance #2016-4 Adopted May 9, 2016
9-50. PENALTIES.
   In addition to any penalty specifically set forth in this chapter, any
person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation or rule, or
order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
Village from maintaining any appropriate action to prevent or remove a
violation of any provision of this Chapter by injunction or other equitable
relief.
CHAPTER 10 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEMS
ARTICLE 1 PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM
10-1. Definitions.
   As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated.
   “Ammonia Nitrogen” or “(NH3-N)” means one of the oxidation states of
nitrogen, in which nitrogen is combined with hydrogen in molecular form as NH3
or in ionized form as NH4+. Quantitative determination of Ammonia Nitrogen
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   “Approving Authority” means the Western Racine County Sewerage District No.
1 (WRCSD) or its duly authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   “Biochemical Oxygen Demand” or “(BOD)” means the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five (5) days at 20 degrees
Centigrade, expressed as milligrams per liter. Quantitative determination of
BOD shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   “Building Drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   “Building Sewer” means the extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal, also called house connection or lateral. The
entirety of the building sewer from the building drain to, and including, its
connection to the public sewer is the responsibility of the Owner, who shall
remain responsible for its maintenance and repair.
   “Chlorine Requirement” means the amount of chlorine, in milligrams per
liter, which must be added to wastewater to produce a specified residual
chlorine content in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   “Combined Sewer” means any sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
   “Commercial User” means any user whose premises are used primarily for the
conduct of a profit-oriented enterprise in the fields of construction,
wholesale or retail trade, finance, insurance, real estate or services, and who
discharges primarily normal domestic sewage. This definition shall also include
multi-family residences having three or more units served by a single meter.
   “Composite Sample (24 hours)” shall be the combination of individual samples
taken at intervals of not more than one hour.
   “Compatible Pollutant” means biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids,
pH, or fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the
WPDES Permit for the publicly owned treatment works receiving the pollutants if
such works were designed to treat such additional pollutants, and in part does
remove such pollutants to a substantial degree.
   “Easement” means an acquired legal right for the specific use by the Village
and/or WRCSD of land owned by others.
   “Fixed Charge” means the charge for the cost of debt retirement associated
with the construction, erection, modification, or rehabilitation of the
wastewater treatment works.
   “Floatable Oil” is oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   “Flow Proportional Sample” means a sample taken that is proportional to the
volume of flow during the sampling period.
   “Garbage” means the residue from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of food products and produce.
   “Ground Garbage” means the residue from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely in suspension under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   “Incompatible Pollutant” means any pollutant which is not a compatible
pollutant.
   “Industrial User” means any user whose premises are used primarily for the
conduct of a profit- oriented enterprise in the fields of manufacturing,
transportation, communications or utilities, mining, agriculture, forestry, or
fishing.
   “Industrial Waste” means any trade or process waste as distinct from
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary convenience.
   “Institutional User” means any user whose premises are used primarily for
the conduct of activities of a social, charitable, or educational character.
   “Intercepting Sewer” means a sewer whose primary purpose is to convey
wastewater from a collection system or systems to a wastewater treatment plant.
Size of the sewer is not a factor.
   “Natural Outlet” means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or groundwaters.
   “Normal Domestic Wastewater” means sanitary wastewater resulting from normal
domestic activities, in which BOD 5, SS, and P concentrations do not exceed
normal concentrations of:
      A.    A five day, 20 degree C. BOD of not more than 290 mg/l.
      B.   A suspended solids content of not more than 345 mg/l.
      C.   A phosphorus concentration of not more than 10 mg/l.
   “Operation and Maintenance” or “O&M” includes all costs associated with the
operation and maintenance of the wastewater collection system, as well as the
costs associated with periodic equipment replacement necessary for maintaining
the capacity and performance of the collection system.
   “Person” means any and all persons including any individual, firm, company,
municipal corporation, private corporation, association, society, institution,
enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   “pH” means the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per
liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a
hydrogen ion concentration of 10-7.
   “Phosphorus” or “P” means the total phosphorus in wastewater, which may be
present in any of three principal forms: orthophosphates, polyphosphates, and/
or organic phosphates. Quantitative determination of total phosphorus shall be
made in accordance with procedures set forth in “Standard Methods”.
   “Pretreatment” means an arrangement of devices and structures for the
preliminary treatment or processing of wastewater required to render such
wastes acceptable for admission to the public sewers.
   “Public Authority” means any user whose premises are used for the conduct of
the legislative, judicial, administrative, or regulatory activities of federal,
state, local, or international units of government; government-owned
educational facilities; government-owned health facilities; or government-owned
recreational facilities. This does not include government-owned or operated
business establishments.
   “Public Sewer” means any sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of
the Western Racine County Sewerage District No. 1. It shall also include sewers
within or outside the District boundaries that serve one or more persons and
ultimately discharge into the District sanitary sewer system, even though those
sewers may not have been constructed with District or municipal funds.
   “Replacement” means expenditures for processing and installing equipment,
accessories, and appurtenances necessary during the useful life of the
collection system to maintain its designed capacity and performance.
Replacement funds will be contained in a separate designated account
established for such purposes.
   “Residential User” means any user whose premises are used primarily as a
domicile for one or more persons and discharges only domestic wastes, but not
including dwellings classified as Commercial Users.
   “Sanitary Sewer” means a sewer that carries sanitary and industrial water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface water
that are not admitted intentionally.
   “Sanitary Wastewater” means a combination of water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial plants (other than
industrial wastes from such plants), together with such ground, surface and
storm waters as may be present.
   “Segregated Domestic Wastes” means wastes from nonresidential sources
resulting from normal domestic activities. These activities are distinguished
from industrial, trade and/or process discharge wastes.
   “Sewage” means the spent water of a community. The preferred term is
“Wastewater.”
   “Sewage System” means the composite network of underground conduits carrying
wastewater and appurtenances incidental thereto (i.e., manholes, lift stations,
service laterals, etc.).
   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   “Sewer Service Charge” means a charge levied on users of the wastewater
collection and treatment facilities for capital-related expenses and services
unique to that user.
   “Sewer Use Charge” means the charge levied on users of a sewer system and
treatment works for the user’s proportional share of the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of such system and works.
   “Shall” is mandatory; “May” is permissible.
   “Slug” means any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of
any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of
duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24 hour
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   “Standard Methods” means the examination and analytical procedures set forth
in the most recent edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Wastewater” published jointly by the American Public Health Association,
the American Water Works Association, and the Water Environment Federation.
   “Storm Drain” (sometimes termed “storm sewer”) means a drain or sewer for
conveying storm water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from
any source.
   “Storm Water Runoff” means that portion of the rainfall that is drained into
the sewers.
   “Suspended Solids” or “SS” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquid, and that are
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods and are
referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   “Treatment Charge” means a charge for the treatment of wastewater.
   “Unmetered User” means a user who is not connected to a municipal water
system and thereby does not have his private water supply metered.
   “Unpolluted Water” means water of quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   “User Charge System” means that system which generates operation,
maintenance, replacement, project, debt service and retirement, and treatment
revenues equitably for providing each user class with services.
   “User Classes” means categories of users having similar flows and water
characteristics; that is, levels of biochemical oxygen demand, suspended
solids, phosphorus, ammonia nitrogen, etc. For the purposes of this Article,
there shall be four user classes: residential, commercial, industrial, and
public authority.
   “Volume Charge” means a sewer use charge based upon the volume of wastewater
to be transported.
   “Wastewater” means the spent water of a community. From the standpoint of
source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   “Wastewater Facilities” means the treatment works defined herein exclusive
of interceptor sewers, and wastewater collection systems.
   “Wastewater Treatment Works” means an arrangement of devices and structures
for the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of wastewater, liquid
industrial wastes, and sludge. These systems include interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, wastewater collection systems, individual systems, pumping,
power and other equipment and their appurtenances; any works that are an
integral part of the treatment process or are used for ultimate disposal of
residues from such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal or
industrial wastes.
   “Watercourse” means a natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   “WPDES Permit” means the permit issued under the Wisconsin Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System, Wisconsin Statutes and Administrative Code.
   “WRCSD” See Approving Authority
10-2. PURPOSE.
   To provide for adequate collection and disposal of sanitary sewage from
within the Village of Rochester, the Village Board of the Village of Rochester
deems it necessary and proper to provide for the construction and operation of
a public sewerage system as hereinafter set forth.
10-3. ADOPTION OF CODES.
   A.   Wisconsin State Plumbing Code. The provisions of the Plumbing Code,
chs. SPS 325 and 381-87 of the Wisconsin Administrative Code of the State of
Wisconsin and other applicable provisions of the Wisconsin Administrative Code,
and all amendments thereof and additions thereto in effect from time to time
are incorporated hereby by reference thereto with the same force and effect as
though set forth herein; provided, however, that if there shall be any conflict
between the provisions of these sections or other ordinances of the Village and
said Code at any specified time, that provision shall govern which requires the
maximum of compliance or is the more restrictive. The provisions thereof and of
this chapter shall govern all plumbing as therein defined and no plumbing shall
be installed except in accordance with said Code and this chapter.
   B.   Western Racine County Sewerage District Ordinances and Regulations. The
provisions of the ordinances and regulations of Western Racine County Sewerage
District, a metropolitan sewerage district in Racine County, and any amendments
thereto, shall apply to and govern installations made pursuant to a contract
between the Village and the Western Racine County Sewerage District, with the
same force and effect as though fully set forth herein.
10-4. CONFLICT.
   If there is any conflict among or between the Village ordinances, the
Plumbing Code of the State of Wisconsin and the ordinances and regulations of
the Western Racine County Sewerage District, the provision which is most
restrictive shall govern.
10-5. COMPULSORY CONNECTION AND CHARGES.
   A.   Compulsory Connection.
      1.   The Owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, including milk houses,
situated within the Village of Rochester and abutting on any street, alley,
right-of-way or public utility easement in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer within 300 feet of the premises,
is hereby required at the Owner=s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and connect such facilities directly to the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this Article within six months after the date
of official notice from the Village and/or Approving Authority to do so.
      2.   If any person fails to comply after the expiration of the time
provided by the notice set forth in subsection 1., the Village may impose a
penalty equal to 150 percent of the minimum quarterly User Fee found in the
user charge system for each quarter until such time as the connection is made
by the Owner. After a period of 12 months from the date of official notice, the
Village may cause connection to be made. In the latter case, the expense
thereof and the Connection Fee shall be assessed as a special charge or special
tax against the property. The Owner may, within 30 days after the completion of
the work, file a written option with the Village stating that he or she cannot
pay the amount in one sum and ask that it be levied in not to exceed five equal
annual installments, and the amount shall be so collected with interest at the
rate of ten percent per year from the completion of the work, the unpaid
balance to be a tax lien. The applicable sewer fees and charges contained in
the user charge system shall take effect as of the day a connection to the
sewer is made. No portable or temporary sanitary facilities shall be allowed
within the Village without approval of the Village and/or the Approving
Authority.
      3.   When extension of the public sanitary sewer is reasonable, the
Village may require such extension to serve new development.
   B.   When No Sewer is Available. In the event that no sanitary sewer main is
available for connection within the distance set forth in subsection A, the
owner shall proceed pursuant to Article II of this chapter. No private waste
disposal system or parts thereof shall be located, installed, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted, substantially altered, or the use
thereof changed, without full compliance with Article 2. A zoning permit for a
principal structure or an addition thereto may not be issued until evidence of
such compliance is provided to the Zoning Administrator.
10-6. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village as set forth in s.
10-14.
   B.   No connections shall be made to any of the sewers of the Village from
any building, premises, excavation place or property of any kind whatsoever by
any drain, tap, or sewer intended or designed to, or capable of, discharging
any matter, whether fluid or solid, into the sewers of the Village unless a
permit has first been issued therefor by the Village as set forth in s.
10-14.
10-7. REPORT OF EXISTING UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.  1
   Whenever it shall be reported that the plumbing in a dwelling is unsanitary,
the Health Officer shall proceed pursuant to s.
25-2 of this Municipal Code. Whenever it is reported to the Plumbing Inspector
or Public Works Manager that the plumbing in any building other than a dwelling
is contrary to the ordinances of the Village of Rochester or is a menace to
health or when, upon complaint made to the Health Officer by any person that
the plumbing in any building other than a dwelling is defective as aforesaid,
then the Health Officer shall direct the Plumbing Inspector to investigate the
cause for complaint in said building and the Plumbing Inspector shall make such
orders as are necessary to put the building in proper sanitary condition and
fix a time for having the same done. Any person refusing to comply therewith
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and each day’s
continuance thereof shall constitute a separate offense. See also ss.
10-17 and
10-50.
 
Notes
1 1 Amended 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
10-8. SEWERAGE USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   A.   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to
the protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the
Village of Rochester to levy and collect charges and fees, including but not
limited to user, service, connection and/or other fees and charges, upon all
the lands, lots, and premises served by having connections with the Village of
Rochester or the Western Racine County Sewerage District sewerage system and
additions and served by having connections available with the sanitary sewerage
system and additions.
   B.   The proceeds of the charges and fees imposed in this Article shall be
used and shall be set aside in separate funds and used solely for sanitary
sewer system purposes, including operations and maintenance, equipment
replacement, projects, and debt service.
   C.   The annual contribution to the replacement fund shall be determined as
follows: Each item of mechanical equipment owned by the Village, and used in
the operation of the Sanitary Sewerage System, shall be valued at cost less
depreciation to date, and that result divided by the number of remaining years
of useful life, and a calculation for inflation. The total of such calculations
for each such piece of mechanical equipment shall be the total annual
contribution to the replacement fund. The replacement fund shall be segregated
and used solely for the purpose of replacement of mechanical equipment by the
Village.
   D.   Total revenues generated hereunder, whether by service, user,
connection or other charges or fees, shall equal or exceed the total amount
needed by the Village for operations, replacement, maintenance, treatment, and
for any other charges which the Village incurs in the annual operation of the
Sanitary Sewerage System.
   E.   The funds set forth in this chapter may be loaned to the Village for
other purposes, provided that any such loan shall be repaid by the Village at
an interest rate equal to or in excess of the interest rate that would be
earned by the funds in the event that the loan did not occur.
10-9. CHARGES AND FEES; METERING.
   A.   In General.
      1.   Levy and Assessment.
         a.   There is hereby levied and assessed upon each lot, parcel of land
or premises having any sewer connection with the Village of Rochester or
Western Racine County Sewerage District (WRCSD) Sanitary Sewerage System within
the Village of Rochester or for which sewer connection is available within the
Village of Rochester and/or said WRCSD sanitary sewerage system and additions
thereto, sewerage charges and/or fees, as set forth herein.
         b.   The amount of said charge or fee shall be an amount determined by
the Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, per quarter, or as set
forth elsewhere in this Article, which shall be billed on or before the 30th
day of March, June, September and December of each year.
      2.   In addition to the fee imposed, a further charge of twelve percent
shall be added thereto in case of failure to make payment on or before the 20th
day of the month following the issuance of a quarterly bill. Said fee shall be
payable as directed by the Village Board and shall be collected by the
Treasurer of the Village of Rochester.
      3.   Each charge or fee levied pursuant to this Article is hereby made a
lien upon the lot, land or premises serviced by sewerage connections with the
sanitary sewerage system of the Village of Rochester and/or the WRCSD within
the Village of Rochester and additions thereto pursuant to law.
      4.   The Village of Rochester shall, at six month intervals, review its
schedule of contributions by users of the waste water system and make the
necessary alignments to its revenue collection system as deemed necessary to
recover actual costs of operation, maintenance, projects, treatment, debt
service and retirement, and other costs.
      5.   All users will be notified annually of the portion of user charges
attributable to waste water treatment services.
      6.   Users discharging toxic pollutants shall pay for any increased costs
of operation and maintenance, including any repair or replacement of the Sewage
System or Wastewater Treatment Works, or fines or other costs attributable to
the discharge of the toxic pollutants.
   B.   User Fees.
      1.   Users of the sewerage system within the Village of Rochester and
additions thereto shall be assessed upon the basis of the following allocated
Charge Unit, which is based on the accepted estimated volume of sewage
generated by a single family residential dwelling:
Type of User Charge Units
Type of User                      Charge Units
House trailer                     1
Multiple family dwelling          1 per each living unit
Store                             1 to 4
Bowling alley                     1/each 4 alleys
Hotel or Motel                 1/each 4 rooms
Lunch room                        1 to 2
Restaurant                        1 to 2
Restaurant and Bar                4 to 6
Garage                         1 to 2
Filling station                   1 to 2
School                            2 min./1 each 25 pupils
Church                            1 to 2
Hall                              1 to 2
Office building                   1 for each office suite
Post office                       1 to 2
Telephone company                 1 to 2
Club house                        2 or more
Refreshment stand                 1 to 2
Shops (print, welding, shoemaker) 1 or more
Funeral Home                      1 or 2
Bank                              1 to 2
Feed Mill                         1
 
 
      2.   When a combination of the uses set forth in subsection 1. exists on
any premises within the Village of Rochester and additions thereto, the Public
Works Manager shall, after consideration of the facts in each such case,
determine and set the Charge Unit for such premises. In the event that the
owner wishes to appeal the Charge Unit set by the Public Works Manager, the
owner may make an appeal to the Village Board. The Board will consider the
facts in the case, and shall uphold or revise the decision of the Public Works
Manager.
      3.   The determination of the allocated units herein fixed shall be
subject to amendment or change from time to time by amending this ordinance
with respect to such user charge allocation.
      4.   Where the number of charge units specified in subsection 1. are
variable or where the user is not identified herein, the Public Works Manager
shall determine the amount of such charge unit or charge units as shall reflect
the volume of sewage as will emanate from such user in comparison with the
usual volume emanating from a single family dwelling, using accepted
methodology, and shall determine and set the Charge Unit for such premises. In
the event that the owner wishes to appeal the Charge Unit set by the Public
Works Manager, the owner may make an appeal to the Village Board. The Board
will consider the facts in the case, and shall uphold or revise the decision of
the Public Works Manager. In the event that the owner of the premises elects to
instead install a water meter to accurately measure the sewer usage, the
provisions of subsection C. shall apply.
   C.   Service Fee; Metering.
      1.   Metering of Water for Certain Properties. An owner of a commercial
use, industrial use, or institutional use property, or a property used for a
combination of any of these with a residential use (but not a solely
residential property), may request, as an alternative to an assignment of a
calculated charge unit, the installation of a water meter for the discharger's
private well in order to measure the volume of water consumption for the
property. When installed, the volume of flow used for computing the User Fee
shall be based upon the metered water consumption of the user as shown in the
records of meter readings obtained by the Village.
      2.   Metering of Water for High Strength or Toxic Waste Dischargers.
         a.   The Village and Approving Authority may require the discharger of
High Strength or Toxic Waste Dischargers to install a water meter for the
discharger=s private well. When installed, the volume of flow used for
computing the User Fee shall be based upon the metered water consumption of the
user as shown in the records of meter readings obtained by the Village, except
as provided in subsection 3.
         b.   In the event that an establishment discharging industrial waste
into the public sewers produces evidence satisfactory to the Village that more
than 20 percent of the total annual volume of water used for all purposes does
not reach the public sewer, then the determination of the water consumption to
be used in computing the waste volume discharged into the public sewer may be
made a matter of agreement between the Approving Authority and the person.
Satisfactory evidence shall be evidence obtained by approved metering.
      3.   Metering of Waste. Devices for measuring the volume of waste
discharged may be required by the Approving Authority or Village if this volume
cannot otherwise be determined. When installed, the volume of flow used for
computing the User Fee shall be based upon the metered waste discharge of the
user as shown in the records of meter readings obtained by the Village.
      4.   Owner to Install and Maintain Meter. All metering devices for
determining the volume of water and/or waste shall be installed, owned, and
maintained by the discharger. A maintenance schedule must be accepted by the
Approving Authority and Village. The discharger shall grant access to the
premises so that the Village can read the meter quarterly, or upon reasonable
request. The discharger shall provide maintenance records upon request, and, in
the event that a meter error or malfunction is discovered, shall perform
required maintenance on the meter with the time allowed by the Village.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed without the
consent of the Approving Authority and the Village of Rochester.
      5.   Service Fee. A Service Fee, in an amount determined by the Village
Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, shall be charged to the discharger
quarterly, in addition to the monthly User Fee, to accommodate the Village=s
costs to monitor and read the meter and its additional administrative costs.
   D.   Connection Charge. A unit connection charge in an amount determined by
the Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule shall be paid in full for
each lot, parcel of land or premises for each new connection before a permit is
issued for, or connection is made to, the sanitary sewerage system within the
Village of Rochester or additions thereto, unless such a connection charge was
previously paid by special assessment or otherwise. When paid, said connection
charge shall be credited to the Sewer Utility Operation and Maintenance Fund.
All connection charges shall be in accordance with the approved User Charge
System and shall be in addition to the building sewer construction costs, sewer
user charges, sewer service charges, and any other charges resulting from the
connection to the public sewer.
10-10. WASTE SAMPLING.
   Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be subject to
periodic inspection and a determination of character and concentration of said
wastes. The sampling may be accomplished either manually or by the use of
mechanical equipment acceptable to the Approving Authority. The use of flow
proportional composite sampling is preferred.
10-11. FREE SERVICE.
   No user shall receive free service or pay a sewer use charge less than the
user’s proportional share of operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
10-12. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   A.   Sanitary Sewers. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any unpolluted waters as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary sewer, except storm water runoff
from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the Approving Authority.
   B.   Storm Sewers. Storm water other than that exempted under subsection A
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Approving Authority and other regulatory agencies.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the Approving Authority and the Village, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
   C   Prohibitions. Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged any of the following described water or waters to any
public sewer.
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process or which
constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities, or of such size, capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, or paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc, either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   Limitations. The following described substances, materials, waters, or
waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.
The Approving Authority may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below if in their opinion such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming an opinion
as to the acceptability, the Approving Authority will give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the Approving Authority
are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit
(65 degrees Celsius).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin.
      3.   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 mg/l of fat, oil,
or grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
mercury, and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any
such material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment
works exceeds the limits established by the Approving Authority for such
materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Approving Authority.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Approving Authority in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in this chapter.
      9.   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment
plant.
         b.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in this chapter.
         c.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium sulfate).
         d.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
      12.   No wastewater, regardless of character, shall be discharged to the
sewage system in such a manner as to interfere with the designed operation of
the collection system or treatment facilities, or to cause the treatment works
to exceed the limits presented by the WPDES Permit.
   E.   Special Arrangements. No statement contained in this Article shall be
construed as prohibiting any special agreement between the Village and
Approving Authority and any person whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be admitted to the sewage disposal works, either
before or after pretreatment, provided that there is no impairment of the
function of the sewage disposal works by reason of the admission of such
wastes, and no extra costs are incurred by the Village or Approving Authority
without recompense by the person provided that all rates and provisions set
forth in this Article are recognized and adhered to.
   F.   New Connections. New connections to the sewage system shall not be
permitted if there is insufficient capacity in the treatment works to
adequately transport the additional wastewater anticipated to be received from
such connections.
   G.   Control of High Strength - Toxic Wastes Directed to Public Sewers.
      1.   Submission of Basic Data. Establishments desiring to make a new
connection to the public sewer for the discharge of industrial wastes or to add
to or change the type of industrial waste being discharged to a public sewer
shall prepare and file with the Approving Authority a report that shall include
pertinent data relating to the quantity and characteristics of the wastes,
including actual and/or predicted data relating to the quantity and
characteristics of the waste to be discharged. Such information shall be
provided as per ch. NR 101 of the Wisconsin Administrative Code.
      2.   High Strength - Toxic Discharges. If any waters or wastes are
discharged, or proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters or
wastes contain substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in s.
10-12D and which in the judgment of the Approving Authority may have
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life, health, or constitute a
public nuisance, the Approving Authority may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable limit for discharge to the
public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this Article.
      3.   The toxic pollutants subject to prohibition or regulation under this
Article shall include, but need not be limited to, the list of toxic pollutants
or combination of pollutants established by Section 307(a) of the Clean Water
Act of 1977 and subsequent amendments. Effluent standards or prohibitions for
discharge to the sanitary sewer shall also conform to the requirements of
Section 307(a) and associated regulations.
      4.   Pretreatment standards for those pollutants which are determined not
to be susceptible to treatment by the treatment works or which would interfere
with the operation of such works shall conform to the requirements and
associated regulations of Section 307(b) of the Clean Water Act of 1977 and
subsequent amendments. The primary source for such regulations shall be 40 CFR
403, General Pretreatment Regulations for existing and New Sources of
Pollution.
   H.   Control Manholes.
      1.   Each user discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer may be
required by the Approving Authority to construct and maintain one or more
control manholes or access points to facilitate observation, measurement and
sampling of its wastes, including domestic sewage.
      2.   Control manholes or access facilities shall be located and built in
a manner acceptable to the Approving Authority. If measuring devices are to be
permanently installed they shall be of a type acceptable to the Approving
Authority.
      3.   Control manholes, access facilities, and related equipment shall be
installed by the establishment discharging the waste, at its expense, and shall
be maintained by it so as to be in safe condition, accessible, and in proper
operating condition at all times. Plans for installation of the control
manholes or access facilities and related equipment shall be approved by the
Approving Authority prior to the beginning of construction.
   I.   Waste Sampling.
      1.   Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be subject
to periodic inspection and a determination of character and concentration of
said wastes. The determination shall be made by the industry as often as may be
deemed necessary by the Approving Authority.
      2.   Sampling shall be conducted in such a manner as to be representative
of the composition of the wastes. The sampling may be accomplished either
manually or by the use of mechanical equipment acceptable to the Approving
Authority.
      3.   Installation, operation, and maintenance of the sampling facilities
shall be the responsibility of the establishment discharging the waste and
shall be subject to the approval of the Approving Authority. Access to sampling
locations shall be granted to the Approving Authority or its duly authorized
representative at all times. Every care shall be exercised in the collection of
samples to ensure their preservation in a state comparable to that at the time
the sample was taken.
   J.   Analyses.
      1.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this Article shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health
Association. Sampling methods, location times, durations, and frequencies are
to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Approving
Authority.
      2.   Determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes shall be made by the establishment discharging them, or its agent, as
designated and required by the Approving Authority. The Approving Authority may
also make its own analyses on the wastes and these determinations shall be
binding as a basis for charges. If the measurements, tests and analyses
disclose that the results or quantities exceed the limits set forth in this
Article, the reasonable cost of making such measurements, tests and analyses
shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes.
   K.   Pretreatment. Where required, in the opinion of the Approving
Authority, to modify or eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures,
processes or operation of the wastewater treatment works, the person shall
provide at its expense such preliminary treatment of processing facilities as
may be determined required to render his wastes acceptable for admission to the
public sewers.
   L.   Submission of Information. Plans, specifications, any other pertinent
information relating to proposed flow equalizations, pretreatment or processing
facilities shall be submitted for review of the Approving Authority prior to
the start of construction if the effluent from such facilities is to be
discharged into the public sewers.
   M.   Grease and/or Sand Interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Approving Authority, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in s.
10-12.D.3., or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Approving Authority, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the Owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Approving Authority. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the Owner=s personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
   N.   Mercury Minimization Requirements.
      1.   Dental Offices.
         a.   This section applies to any dental office that places or removes
amalgam. If work in a dental office is limited to work that does not involve
placing or removing amalgam, such as orthodontics, periodontics, oral and
maxillo-facial surgery, endodontics or prosthodontics, then this section does
not apply.
         b.   Dental offices in existence on the date of enactment of this
section are subject to the deadlines for compliance with this section set forth
in subsections d. through h. below, as established by the Village and the
Western Racine County Sewerage District No. 1 (WRCSD).
         c.   All dental offices shall implement best management practices for
amalgam as established by the Wisconsin Dental Association, including the
installation and use of amalgam separators.
         d.   Within the shortest reasonable time, but not later than December
31, 2009, every vacuum system where amalgam is placed or removed shall include
an amalgam separator that meets the criteria of the International Standards
Organization (ISO 11143). Dental offices shall install, operate and maintain
the amalgam separator according to instructions provided by the manufacturer.
The amalgam separator shall have a design and capacity appropriate for the size
and type of vacuum system.
         e.   On or before March 31, 2009 each dental office shall submit a
schedule for the installation of the amalgam separator required by subsection
d. above.
         f.   On or before July 31, 2009 each dental office shall submit a
report to the Village that certifies the implementation of the management
practices required by subsection c. above and identifies the contractors used
to remove amalgam waste within the last 12 months. A copy of this report will
be forwarded to WRCSD.
         g.   On or before December 31, 2009 each dental office shall submit a
report providing the following information:
            (1)   If installation of the amalgam separator is complete, then
the report shall identify the installation date, the manufacturer and the model
name.
            (2)   If installation of the amalgam separator is incomplete, then
the report shall briefly explain the delay, provide an installation schedule
and identify the manufacturer and the model name of the amalgam separator that
will be installed.
         h.   If a dental office has provided a report according to subsection
1.g(2) above, then the dental office shall notify the Village of the completion
of the installation within five days after completion. A copy of this report
will be forwarded to WRCSD.
         i.   The Village shall provide forms for reporting the information
required by subsections e., f., g., and h. above.
         j.   From the contractor(s) used to remove amalgam waste, dental
offices shall obtain records for each shipment showing: the volume or mass of
amalgam waste shipped, the name and address of the destination, and the name
and address of the contractor. Dental offices shall make these records
available to the Village and WRCSD personnel for inspection and copying upon
request.
         k.   Annually on or before January 31, each dental office shall submit
a report to the Village that lists the volume or mass of amalgam waste shipped,
the name and address of the destination and the name and address of the
contractor(s) used to remove amalgam waste within the previous calendar year.
The report shall also set forth all maintenance performed on the amalgam
separator within the previous calendar year, including inspections, cleaning,
repairs and other maintenance. The Village shall provide forms for reporting
the information required by this subsection 11. A copy of this report will be
forwarded to WRCSD.
         l.   Dental offices shall permit the Village and WRCSD to inspect
vacuum system, amalgam separator and amalgam waste storage areas if requested.
Inspections shall occur during the normal operating schedule of the dental
office according to appointments made in advance, as long as this advance
notice does not impede enforcement of this section.
         m.   If a dental office is implementing the management practices
required by subsection c. above and is operating and maintaining the amalgam
separator required by subsection d. above, then with regard to mercury it will
not be subject to the regulatory procedures and requirements as set forth
elsewhere in Article, however, if the dental office fails to meet such
standards, the provisions of this Article, including ss.
10-10,
10-17 and
10-50, shall apply.
      2.   Other Facilities.
         a.   This section applies to all other facilities having the potential
to discharge mercury or mercury-containing material to the Village=s and
WRCSD=s sanitary sewer system. Facilities to which this section applies
include:
            (1)   Medical facilities, including all hospitals, clinics and
veterinary facilities that have laboratories.
            (2)   School facilities, including all public and private schools
with science laboratories, including middle schools, high schools, technical
schools, colleges and universities, but not elementary schools.
            (3)   Industrial facilities, including all industrial plants that
historically or consistently discharge mercury into the wastewater treatment
plant and industrial plants with the potential for mercury in their wastewater.
         b.   The Village shall identify and notify the facilities to be
regulated under this section 2. within 30 days after the effective date of this
section. All facilities identified after the effective date of this section
shall be notified individually by the Village that they are subject to
regulation under this subsection 2.
         c.   All facilities regulated under this subsection 2. shall implement
best management practices as established by the Wisconsin Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) and the WRCSD. On or before July 31, 2009 each facility
regulated under this section shall submit a report to the Village that
identifies the management practices already implemented and lists the
anticipated dates for implementing the other management practices listed on the
report. New facilities identified under subsection b. above shall submit this
report within three months of notification. A copy of this report will be
forwarded to WRCSD.
         d.   By December 31, 2009, all facilities regulated under this
subsection 2 shall submit a report to the Village that certifies the
implementation of the management practices described in subsection c. above.
New facilities indentified under subsection b. above shall implement best
management practices and submit a certification report within six months of
submittal of the report required under subsection c. above. A copy of this
report will be forwarded to WRCSD.
         e.   The Village shall provide forms for reporting the information
required by subsections c. and d. above.
         f.    If a facility is implementing the management practices required
by subsections c. and d. above, then with regard to mercury it will not be
subject to the regulatory procedures and requirements as set forth elsewhere in
this Article, however, if the facility fails to meet such standards, the
provisions of this Article, including ss.
10-10,
10-17 and
10-50, shall apply.
10-13. RIGHT OF ENTRY, SAFETY, AND IDENTIFICATION.
   A.   Right of Entry. The collection system operator or other duly authorized
employee of the Village or Approving Authority bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
Article and state laws. The operator, or other duly authorized employee of the
Village or Approving Authority shall have no authority to inquire into any
process beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for wastewater treatment.
   B.   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private premises
referred to in subsection A, the duly authorized Village or Approving Authority
employees shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the Owner or occupant and the Village or Approving Authority shall indemnify
the Owner against loss or damage to its property by Village or Approving
Authority employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the Owner and growing out of gauging
and sampling operations of the Village or Approving Authority employees; except
as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the Owner to maintain safe
conditions.
   C.   Identification, Right to Enter Easements. The operator and other duly
authorized employees of the Village or Approving Authority bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the Village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said
easement, all subject to the terms, if any, of the agreement.
10-14. SEWER CONSTRUCTION (BUILDING SEWERS).
   A.   Work To Be Authorized.
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer, building sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining written permits from the Village.
      2.   Work performed on the public sewer or building sewer shall require a
Sewer Construction Permit. The fee for this permit shall be in an amount
determined by the Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule. The
connection of the building sewer to the building drain shall require a
Connection Permit, the fee for which shall be in an amount determined by the
Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule. All fees shall be paid prior
to the issuance of the permit(s).
      3.   No contractor, plumber, pipe fitter or other person shall be
permitted to do work on any public sewer or building sewer without first
receiving all licenses and permits as are required under the Village of
Rochester Municipal Code affecting contractor licenses, plumber licenses or
other construction related licenses, as well as any and all licenses as may
from time to time be required by the Western Racine County Sewerage District.
The permittee shall notify the Village at least 48 hours prior to commencing
work or beginning excavation.
      4.   No permit shall be issued to connect any lot, excavation or open
basement with the public sanitary sewer. No authority shall be granted to
connect the sewer lateral from a building with the sanitary sewer main until
such building is completely enclosed by roof, the outside wall back-filled to
established grade, and all sanitary sewer lines within buildings that will be
covered by basement floors have been inspected and approved by the Plumbing
Inspector after the permanent floor is constructed in the basement. In
buildings without basements, the authority shall be granted after the footing
and sub-floor have been constructed.
   B.   Cost of Sewer Construction and Maintenance. 1
      1.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer, inclusive of the connection itself, shall be
borne by the Owner, who may request that the work be performed by the Village
or who may employ an independent contractor to do the work. In the latter case,
the Owner shall indemnify the Sewerage District and the Village from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation,
modification, connection, maintenance or repair of the building sewer. Except
as herein provided, all charges accruing to the Owner under this subsection
10-14.B.1. may be treated as special charges in accordance with the provisions
of the Wisconsin Statutes.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, when the portion
of a building sewer that lies in the public right-of-way is required by the
Village to be constructed or replaced during a Village road project, and when
the sewer connection flows directly into a Western Racine County Sewerage
District main, and the Village performs the construction or replacement of the
building sewer, the Village may, but is not required to, share the cost of the
installation or replacement of the portion of the building sewer that lies in
the public right-of-way with the Owner. The method and amount of said cost
sharing shall be determined by the Village Board. All charges accruing to the
Owner under this subsection
10-14.B.2. may be treated as special assessments in accordance with the
provisions of the Wisconsin Statutes.
   C.   Use of Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test
by the Village to meet all requirements for this Article.
   D.   Materials and Methods of Construction. The size, slope, alignment, and
the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing,
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the
Wisconsin Administrative Code, the State Department of Natural Resources, the
municipal building and plumbing codes, and other applicable rules and
regulations of the Sewerage District. All building sewers shall be constructed
of Sch 40 PVC. In the absence of code provisions or an amplification thereof,
the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF
Manual of Practice No. 9, as may be amended from time to time shall apply.
   E.   Building Sewer Grade. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement flow. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   F.   Storm and Groundwater Drains. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. All existing
downspouts or groundwater drains, etc., connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer must be disconnected no later than 30 days from the date
of an official written notice by the Approving Authority or Village. In the
event that the violation is not corrected in the time frame stated, or a second
violation is discovered, the person shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit
$500.00, together with the costs of prosecution. In the event a person is
convicted of a third or subsequent violation, the person shall forfeit
$1,000.00, together with the costs of prosecution. In addition, the Village may
take all reasonably necessary steps to resolve the violation, and may charge
the cost thereof to the property owner as a special charge. In the event that
the charges are not paid, the costs will become a lien against the property and
collected as a special charge as provided by statute. Exceptions to the above
shall be made only by the Approving Authority or Village in writing.
   G.   Conformance to Plumbing Code.
      1.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the municipal building and plumbing code and
other applicable rules and regulations of WRCSD or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9,
as may be amended, when not otherwise specified. All such connections shall be
made gas tight and watertight. Any deviation from the pre-described procedures
and materials must be approved by the Approving Authority or Village before
installation.
      2.   All connections to existing sewer mains shall be made with a saddle
“T” or “Y” fitting set upon a carefully cut opening centered in the upper
quadrant of the main sewer pipe with solvent-welded joints.
   H.   Inspection of Connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Village when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Village. The permit fee shall include the cost of one
inspection by the Village. The Owner shall pay the costs of any additional
inspections that may be required for quality assurance.
   I.   Barricades and Restoration. All excavations for the building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the Village.
   J.   Sewer Main Extensions. In addition to all other pertinent sections of
this Article, any person requesting an extension of the public sanitary sewer
main shall be responsible for all of the following duties:
      1.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation of a sewer main
extension, including engineering and any fees associated with the connection or
hookup to the sewer, shall be borne by the person requesting the extension.
This person shall secure and furnish proof of an escrow account for the
estimated amount of the total sewer costs, the amount to be determined by WRCSD
and the Village of Rochester. The account shall be so arranged and a special
agreement executed between the person, the bank, and the Village of Rochester
to allow the latter to withdraw monthly amounts from the account sufficient to
cover monthly payments to subcontractors under contract with the Village of
Rochester for the sewer installation. The amounts of monthly withdrawals, as
determined by the Village of Rochester, shall be billed to the person
requesting the extension and shall be due within ten days of the date of
billing.
      2.   Design of any proposed sewer extension shall be performed by an
engineering consultant selected by the Village or Approving Authority. The
resulting construction plans and specification shall be reviewed and approved
by the Approving Authority and the Village of Rochester prior to submission to
the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. All plans shall conform to the
standards of the WDNR, and such additional requirements and standards that the
Approving Authority may establish, and shall be prepared by a professional
engineer registered to practice in the State of Wisconsin. Construction
inspection and contract administration shall be performed by the District’s
engineer.
      3.   The person requesting the sewer extension shall assist in securing
all required utility easements, the location and width of which shall be
determined by the Village of Rochester. The Village of Rochester will furnish
blank easement forms to the person who will be responsible for the proper legal
description of the easement parcel and for the proper execution of the easement
by the grantor. All completed easements shall be submitted to the Village of
Rochester, designated as the grantee for its review, and shall be recorded at
the Racine County Register of Deeds office by the Village.
      4.   The person requesting the sewer extension shall also execute any
other special agreements deemed necessary by the Approving Authority and the
Village of Rochester.
      5.   In the event that the person requesting the sewer extension wishes
to construct the improvements and dedicate the completed improvements to the
Village, the Village shall execute a written agreement with the person which
shall set forth the terms and conditions related to the extension.
 
Notes
1 1 Amended by Ordinance #2016-2 Adopted 2.22.16
10-15. SEPTIC TANK AND HOLDING TANK DISPOSAL.
   No septic tank or holding tank wastes shall be discharged to the collection
system operated by Western Racine County Sewerage District No. 1 except as may
be specifically authorized by the District.
10-16. DAMAGE OR TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   A.   Willful, Negligent or Malicious Damage. No unauthorized person shall
maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface,
or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the
sewage facilities. Any persons violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest.
   B.   Liability to Discharger for Losses. Any person who intentionally,
negligently or accidentally violates any provision of this Article shall become
liable to the Village of Rochester, or any downstream user, for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by such reason of such violation which the Village of
Rochester or any downstream user may suffer as a result thereof. This section
shall be applicable whether or not a written notice of the violation was given
as provided in ss.
10-17 or
10-50 and without consideration for any penalties which may be imposed for a
violation of the Chapter.
10-17. NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article may be served
by the Village of Rochester with a written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time for the satisfactory correction
thereof, except in cases of emergency. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. In case of
emergency, the Village may take all reasonably necessary steps to resolve the
violation, and may charge the cost thereof to the property owner as a special
charge. In the event that the charges are not paid, the costs will become a
lien against the property and collected as a special charge as provided by
statute.
10-18. APPEALS.
   A.   Appeal Procedure. Any user, permit applicant, or permit holder affected
by any decision, action, or determination, including cease and desist orders,
made by the Approving Authority, Village of Rochester, or Approving Authority
through the Village of Rochester, interpreting or implementing the provisions
of this Article or in any permit issued herein, may file with the Village of
Rochester a written request for reconsideration within ten days setting forth
in detail the facts supporting the user’s request for reconsideration. The
Approving Authority shall be given notice of such written request and shall
appear at the time of reconsideration.
   B.   The WRCSD Commission or the Village, whichever is applicable, shall
render a decision on the request for reconsideration to the user, permit
applicant or permit holder in writing within 15 days of receipt of the request.
ARTICLE 2 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
10-30. APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this Article shall apply to all areas of the Village not
served by a public sewer as set forth in s.
10-5.A.
10-31. SANITARY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A.   No person may locate, install, move, reconstruct, extend, enlarge,
convert, substantially alter, or change the use of a private waste disposal
system or parts thereof or a non-plumbing sanitation system without first
obtaining a Sanitary Permit from Racine County in conformance with ch. 19 of
the Racine County Code of Ordinances. A zoning permit for a principal structure
or an addition thereto may not be issued until evidence of such compliance is
provided to the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Where the property to be served by a private sewage disposal system is
in the planned urban service area of the Western Racine County Sewerage
District, Racine County will require that the applicant for a sanitary permit
provide a letter from the Village stating that the applicant is exempt from
connection to the Village sewer main.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 8-28-2023)
10-32. HOLDING TANKS.
   A.   Holding Tanks Prohibited. Holding tanks are prohibited in the Village.
Any person who is denied the use of a holding tank as a result of this section
may appeal the application of this section based upon the unique situation of
the applicant. The appeal shall be in writing to the Village Board and shall
set forth all reasons for the requested holding tank. The Village Board may
grant variances to this prohibition where the enforcement of the prohibition
will result in severe and unnecessary hardship and where the Village Board
believes it is not contrary to the public interest. The Village Clerk shall
inform the Racine Code Administration Office of any such variance. Subsection B
shall apply to any such variance.
   B.   Agreement Required. As a precondition to the installation of a holding
tank, the landowner shall enter into an agreement with the Village relative to
the installation, maintenance and emptying of said holding tank. Such agreement
shall conform to the regulations of Racine County. The owner shall cause the
agreement to be recorded with the office of the Register of Deeds for Racine
County, and the agreement shall constitute an agreement running with the land
and binding upon the owner, his heirs, successors, personal representatives and
assigns. In such agreement, the owner shall agree to:
      1.   Install, maintain and empty the holding tank in accordance with the
applicable laws, rules, regulations and ordinances governing such installation
and any requirements set forth by Racine County.
      2.   Be fully responsible and liable for the proper operation and
maintenance of the holding tank and for the disposal of the contents of the
holding tank in accord with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and
ordinances governing the same.
      3.   Obey all lawful orders with respect to the holding tank which are
issued by the Village and its officials, as well as all other agencies and
officers with jurisdiction as to such holding tank.
      4.   Install warning devices, both visual and audible, to indicate when
the holding tank is full or in need of pumping.
      5.   Have the contents from the holding tank removed, hauled and disposed
of by a hauler licensed by the State in accord with all State and local laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
      6.   File receipts and a pumping report as required by Racine County
evidencing the date and volume of contents which were removed from the holding
tank.
      7.   If the owner does not cause the holding tank to be properly
maintained in response to orders from the Department of Safety and Professional
Services, Racine County, or the Village, and if it becomes necessary to prevent
or abate a human health hazard, the Village may provide for the maintenance of
the holding tank, including the pumping, transportation and disposal of the
holding tank contents. In such case, the Village will charge the owner for the
work done and, if not paid, the Village will place the charges on the tax roll
as a special charge for current services rendered and the charge will be a lien
against the property.
      8.   Allow the Village Building Inspector and Village Board members, or
any authorized person of the Village to inspect the holding tank and the
premises at all reasonable times.
      9.   Have a lien asserted against the property served by the holding tank
for any obligations or damages accruing to the Village under the agreement and
if unpaid by the landowner to have any such obligations or damages placed upon
the Village tax roll as a special assessment for the abatement of a human
health hazard.
      10.   Notify any future owner of the property that it is served by a
holding tank and that the agreement is binding on future owners.
      11.   Be bound to comply with changes in the law regarding holding tanks:
be bound to connect to municipal sanitary sewer at the owner’s expense if it is
reasonably available pursuant to Article 1; and be bound to install a soil
absorption system if it becomes feasible.
   C.   Unless required by the applicable law, rules and regulations, no
agreement shall be entered into with respect to a holding tank to serve more
than one property.
   D.   Agreements Saved and Continued. Any Holding Tank Agreement entered into
by and between a person and the Town of Rochester prior to the Town's
consolidation with the Village of Rochester under Chapter XXIV, Holding Tanks,
of the Town of Rochester Code of Ordinances, shall be continued in full force
and effect by the Village of Rochester as the successor in interest to the
Agreement.
10-33. SUBDIVISIONS NOT SERVED BY PUBLIC SEWER.
   Prior to application to the County for approval of any site in a proposed
subdivision which will not be served by public sewer, the Owner shall request
from the Village a letter exempting the proposed subdivision from connection to
the public sanitary sewer. Prior to issuance of said letter, the Village will
determine whether extension of the public sewer to serve said proposed
subdivision is reasonable, and if it is not reasonable, the Village will issue
said letter to the owner. If extension of the public sewer is reasonable, the
Village shall make such extension a condition of approval of the proposed
subdivision.
10-34. REQUIREMENTS FOR LOTS TO BE SERVED BY PRIVATE SEWER.
   A.   Widths and area of all lots not served by a public sanitary sewer
system or other sewage disposal system approved by that agency having
jurisdiction over the approval or disapproval of such system shall be
sufficient to permit the use of a private on-site wastewater treatment system
(POWTS) designed in accordance with applicable state and county sanitary
regulations but in no case shall be less than one hundred fifty (150) feet in
width and forty thousand (40,000) square feet in area unless a different lot
width and area has been approved by the Village through the land division or
conditional use process.
   B.   When there is a reasonable likelihood that unsewered lots will be
sewered within ten years and that the required frontage thereafter will be 75
feet, the Village or subdivider may cause dotted lines to be drawn across the
center of the lots applicable on plat and zoning maps so as to notify
prospective purchasers of that possibility.
ARTICLE 3 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
10-50. Violations and Penalties.
   A.   Written Notice of Violation; Emergency. Any person found to be
violating any provision of this Chapter may, but is not required to be, served
by the Village of Rochester with a written notice of violation as set forth in
s.
10-17. In the event of emergency, notice is not required.
   B.   Accidental Discharge.
      1.   Any person found to be responsible for accidentally allowing a
deleterious discharge into the sewer system which causes damage to the
treatment facility and/or receiving body of water, shall, in addition to
forfeitures, pay the amount to cover damage, both values to be established by
the Approving Authority or Village.
      2.   Any person found to be responsible for accidentally allowing a
deleterious discharge onto structures, land or water, shall, in addition to a
forfeiture, pay the amount to cover damage, in an amount to be established by
the Village or the person who suffered the damage.
   C.   Continued Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided in a notice when notice is given shall, upon
conviction be subject to the penalties set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Each day in which any violation is continued
beyond the aforesaid notice time limit shall be deemed a separate offense.
   D.   Liability to the District and/or Village for Losses. Any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall become liable to the Western
Racine County Sewerage District No. 1 and/or the Village for any expense, loss,
or damage occasioned by reason of such violation which the District or Village
may suffer as a result thereof whether or not notice is provided.
   E.   Any person violating Article 2 of this chapter shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in ch. 19 of the Racine County Code of Ordinances or
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code, as appropriate.
   F.   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, whether notice
of violation is provided or not, any person violating this chapter shall be
subject to penalties as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
   Contents
CHAPTER 11 BUILDING, PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL CODE
ARTICLE 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
11-1. BUILDING, PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all building, plumbing,
electrical and HVAC activities in the Village of Rochester, and shall be known
as the “Building, Plumbing, Electrical and Mechanical Code” of the Village of
Rochester. This chapter may also be referred to collectively as the “Building
Code.” Every person who is under the jurisdiction of this chapter and who
furnishes or performs building, plumbing, electrical or HVAC services, or who
owns, sells, leases or lets for hire, uses, designs, installs, repairs,
operates, maintains or grants possession of any equipment, materials, or
apparatus relating to said services in the Village shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
11-2. AUTHORITY.
   These Regulations are adopted under the statutory authority granted pursuant
to Wis. Stat. chs. 101 and 145, including, but not limited to, Wis. Stat. ss.
101.65, 101.76, 101.86, 101.975 and 145.04.
11-3. PURPOSE.
   A.   The purpose of these Regulations is to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of our community, to protect property values and provide for
orderly, appropriate development and growth of the community.
   B.   These Regulations prescribe reasonable minimum standards, rather than
specifications for building and mechanical installations and equipment
generally. The provisions and requirements set forth in these Regulations are
intended to require safe and stable construction, installation and maintenance
of the various mechanical systems; and compliance with these standards,
provisions and requirements is intended to result in buildings, structures, and
mechanical installations reasonably free from hazards.
   C.   Specifications are not complete when they merely require compliance
with these Regulations, because the adequacy, suitability, operating
efficiency, convenience, finish, appearance and value of buildings, structures
and mechanical installations may vary greatly without departure from these
Regulations.
11-4. DEFINITIONS.
   As used in these Regulations, the following terms have the meaning
prescribed herein: (Any item not defined herein shall follow the Wisconsin
Administrative Code definitions.)
   “Building” means any structure erected or constructed of wood, metal, stone,
plastic or other materials which is intended to be used by human beings for
occupancy, vehicle storage, other storage, commerce, education, cultural
activities or other purpose. The term does not include children's play
structures.
   “Building Inspector” means the individual(s) or firm appointed by the
Village to exercise all of the powers and duties of a building and HVAC
inspector under Wisconsin law and Village Ordinances.
   “Construction” means any part or portion of the activity of installing,
locating, siting, erecting or raising a building.
   “Contractor” means any person, firm or entity which undertakes any activity
related to the construction of a building other than the mere provision of
supplies, materials.
   “Demolition” means the activity of completely or partially destroying a
previously erected or constructed building.
   “Electrical” means the trade which relates to the design, installation,
maintenance and repair of the mechanical equipment, wiring, fixtures and
connections that tie a structure to the power grid of an electric generating
utility and distributes the electricity through a structure to end uses,
including any work which may be performed by a master electrician licensed by
the State of Wisconsin or a person under the supervision of such an
electrician.
   “Electrical Inspector” means the individual(s) or firm appointed by the
Village to exercise all of the powers and duties of an electrical inspector
under Wisconsin law and Village Ordinances.
   “Fixture” means a plumbing device including, without limitation, the
following: sinks, bathtubs, wash basins, water closets, shower stalls, urinals,
laundry tubs, water heaters of any type, range boilers, floor drains, catch
basins, bubblers, sumps, bar connections, soda fountains, ice boxes, machine
waste connections, acid tanks, ejectors and all plumbing fixtures and water-
connected appliances, together with all changes or alterations where
inspections are necessary; and house drain, sewer, water and fire protection
installations, when no plumbing fixtures are installed.
   “HVAC” is an acronym which stands for Heating, Ventilating and Air
Conditioning; the trade which installs mechanical equipment, systems and
accessory ducting and gratings for the purpose of warming, purifying, cooling
and exchanging air in a building.
   “Occupancy” means the act of utilizing a building for human habitation, use,
or occupancy. Any use of a building for any activity which is customarily or
routinely associated with utilization of a building as a residence, detached
residential accessory structure, or commercial use shall constitute occupancy.
   “Owner” means the individual, firm or entity which has record title to the
real estate on which construction or demolition is taking place.
   “Plumbing” means the trade which relates to the design, installation and
maintenance or repair of pipes, drains, sinks, basins, hot water heating
systems, natural gas pipes, grease traps, floor drains, and all other work for
which the individual performing the work may either be a master plumber
licensed by the State of Wisconsin or work under the supervision of such a
plumber. Plumbing includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The construction, connection or installation of any drain or waste
piping system from the outside or proposed outside foundation walls of any
building to the mains or other sewerage system terminal within bounds of or
beneath an area subject to easement for highway purposes, including private
domestic sewage treatment and disposal systems, and the alteration of any such
systems, drains or waste piping; and
   B.   The water service piping from the outside or proposed outside
foundation walls of any building to the water utility service terminal; and
   C.   The water pressure systems other than municipal systems as provided in
Wis. Stat. ch. 281; and
   D.   A plumbing and drainage system so designed and vent piping so installed
as to keep the air within the system in free circulation and movement; to
prevent with a margin of safety unequal air pressures of such force as might
blow, siphon or affect trap seals or retard the discharge from plumbing
fixtures or permit sewer air to escape into the building; to prohibit cross-
connection, contamination or pollution of the potable water supply and
distribution systems; and to provide an adequate supply of water to properly
serve, cleanse and operate all fixtures, equipment, appurtenances and
appliances served by the plumbing system.
   E.   Plumbing does not include minor repairs to faucets or the removal of
stoppages in solid or waste pipes.
   “Plumbing Inspector” means the individual(s) or firm appointed by the
Village to exercise all of the powers and duties of a plumbing inspector under
Wisconsin law and Village Ordinances.
   “Repairs” for purposes of maintenance or replacement in any existing
building or structure which do not involve structural portions of the building
or structure or which do not affect room arrangement, light and ventilation,
access to or efficiency of any exit stairways or exits, fire protection or
exterior aesthetic appearance and which do not increase a given occupancy and
use, shall be deemed minor repairs.
   “Stop Work Order” means a directive issued with respect to a construction
project by an inspector which compels the owner and any contractor or builder
of a building to cease any further work or activity on the construction project
until the inspector has authorized the resumption of the construction project.
11-5. SCOPE.
   These Regulations apply to all one and two family dwellings, commercial
buildings and structures (including but not limited to multiple family
dwellings and business, office, industrial, manufacturing, and institutional
buildings and structures), swimming pools, decks, residential accessory
buildings and storage buildings. Notwithstanding this section, these
Regulations shall not apply to children's play structures.
11-6. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A.   No owner or contractor may commence construction of any building,
mechanical, electrical or plumbing system prior to obtaining a valid permit
from the Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, and/or Electrical Inspector.
Application for a permit shall be made to the appropriate Inspector upon forms
which the Inspector shall provide.
   B.   The construction which shall require a permit includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   New buildings including detached structures (decks) and detached
accessory buildings.
      2.   Additions that increase the physical dimensions of a building
including decks.
      3.   Alterations to the building structure (cost shall include market
labor value), or alterations to the building's heating, electrical or plumbing
systems.
      4.   Replacement of major building equipment including furnaces and
central air conditioners, water heaters and any other major piece of equipment
shall require a permit except as noted in C.2. below.
      5.   Any electrical wiring for new construction or remodeling.
      6.   Any HVAC for new construction or remodeling.
      7.   Any plumbing for new construction or remodeling.
      8.   Any new or re-wired electrical service, including services for
storage buildings.
      9.   Re-siding, re-roofing, major repairs, and window enlargement.
Structural load-bearing calculations may be requested by the building inspector
for re-roofing a building if the proposed re-roofing would constitute a third
or more layer of roofing.
      10.   Foundation repairs and damp proofing.
         a.   Repairs to foundations and damp proofing require a permit from
the Building Inspection Department. Application for permit shall include a
statement of the existing defects, and an analysis of the cause of those
existing defects to ensure that all conditions responsible for foundation
defects are corrected.
         b.   Plans and/or specifications must be submitted for approval prior
to issuance of a permit.
         c.   Except as otherwise permitted by the Building Inspector,
foundation repair shall be performed in accordance with the most current
edition of Best Management Standards for Foundation Repair.
   C.   Exceptions.
      1.   The following activities shall not require a permit:
         a.   Finishing of interior surfaces, installation of cabinetry, and
repairs which are deemed minor by the Building Inspector.
         b.   Normal repairs of HVAC, plumbing and electrical equipment or
systems such as replacing switches, dimmers and fixtures unless further or
additional HVAC, electrical, or plumbing work is deemed necessary or required
under the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   No person manufacturing or requiring electrical apparatus and
equipment, and employing a State electrical contractor's certification, shall
be required to have an electrical permit for his or its testing equipment.
      3.   No electrical permit shall be required for private or public
utilities engaged in the distribution and sale of heat, light, electricity and
power.
11-7. ADOPTION OF CODES.
A.   Chapters 101 and 145 of the Wisconsin Statutes, along with the following
chapters of the Wisconsin Administrative Code, as well as all subsequent
revisions, are adopted by the Village and shall be enforced by the Building
Inspector, Plumbing Inspector and/or Electrical Inspector.
   Ch. SPS 305      Licenses, Certifications and Registrations
    2 Ch. SPS 316      Electrical
   Chs. SPS 320-325   Uniform Dwelling
   Ch. SPS 326      Manufactured Home Communities
    1  Ch. SPS 327      Camping Units
   Ch. SPS 328      Smoke Detectors and Carbon Monoxide Detectors
   Ch. SPS 360      Erosion Control, Sediment Control and Storm Water
   Chs. SPS 361-366   Commercial Building Code
   Chs. SPS 375-379   Buildings Constructed Prior to 1914
   Chs. SPS 381-387   Plumbing
   Ch. PSC 114      Wisconsin State Electrical Code, Volume 1
   B.   These Regulations are available on line at http://
www.legis.state.wi.us/rsb/code/codtoc.html, as may be amended. Further, certain
International Codes are adopted pursuant to the Wisconsin Administrative Code
sections adopted herein, including but not limited to the IBC, International
Building Code; the IECC, International Energy Conservation Code; the IMC,
International Mechanical Code; the International Fuel Gas Code; and the IEBC,
International Existing Building Code, and are subject to the modifications
specified in the Wisconsin Administrative Code. Copies of said International
Codes may be obtained as set forth in Wis. Admin. Code s. SPS 361.05.
   C.   The provisions of these statutes and codes shall govern design and
construction of all buildings within the Village, along with the additional
provisions set forth in this chapter of this Municipal Code. In all instances
where there appears to be a conflict between applicable provisions of the
adopted codes with respect to any instance of design or construction of any
building within the Village, the more restrictive provisions shall apply unless
to do so would violate the municipal authority to adopt said codes.
 
Notes
2 2 Added by Ordinance 2019-5, Adopted 6.10.19
1 1 Added by Ordinance 2018-3, Adopted 1.8.18
11-8. EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Unless otherwise specifically stated in these Regulations an existing
building or structure, and every element, system or component of an existing
building or structure shall be maintained to conform with the building and fire
code requirements that applied when the building, structure, element, system or
component was constructed, and shall comply with these Regulations wherever
applicable.
11-9. CERTIFIED MUNICIPALITY STATUS.
   The Village is authorized to perform Commercial Inspections as described in
Wis. Admin. Code s. SPS 361.60(2)(d). The Village is not authorized to perform
commercial plan review, and plans for commercial buildings required to be
reviewed under state law and administrative code shall be reviewed by the State
of Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services prior to or in
conjunction with application for permits hereunder.
11-10. INSPECTORS.
   A.   Appointment and Term. A Building Inspector, a Plumbing Inspector and an
Electrical Inspector shall be selected and appointed by the Village Board to
indefinite terms, the length of time determined by contract. A single person or
a firm may be appointed to fill more than one position. The Inspector, with the
approval of the Village Board, may appoint a Deputy Inspector to act in the
event of his absence or inability to perform his duties, but such appointment
shall not carry with it any increase in compensation.
   B.   Certification. Each Inspector shall be certified for inspection
purposes by the Department of Safety and Professional Services in the required
categories specified under Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 305.
   C.   Compensation. Each Inspector shall receive compensation for
inspections, additional inspections and meetings as determined by the Village
Board and which shall be set forth by contract with the Inspector.
   D.   Duties. The Inspectors shall enforce all provisions of these
Regulations, and all other State and Village provisions relating to
construction, installation, alteration, repair and maintenance of buildings,
structures, mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems within the Village,
shall make such inspections, perform such tests and issue such orders as may be
necessary for such enforcement, and shall have other such responsibilities as
established by the Plan Commission and the Village Board.
      1.   The Building Inspector shall have the specific duties set forth in
Wis. Admin. Code ss. SPS 320.10 and 361.41.
      2.   The Electrical Inspector shall have the specific duties set forth in
Wis. Admin. Code ss. SPS 316.940 and 320.10, and, where applicable, Wis. Admin.
Code ch. PSC 114. In addition, if electrical service is ordered discontinued to
any building by the Fire Chief, the Fire Chief shall notify the Electrical
Inspector so the latter may inspect the premises and authorize reconnection of
service. The Village Police and Fire Departments shall permit the Electrical
Inspector or his authorized representative inside fire and police lines.
      3.   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the duties and authority set forth
as those of the plumbing “supervisor” in Wis. Stat. s. 145.05 and Wis. Admin.
Code ss. SPS 320.10 and 382.21, and shall keep a record of all sewer
connections and make drawings showing the location of the same and the position
of all house drains, connections, junctions and other data necessary.
   E.   Powers. Each Inspector or an authorized certified agent of the
Inspector may, at all reasonable hours, upon presentation of proper
credentials, enter upon any public or private premises for inspection purposes.
The Inspector may require the production of the permit for any building,
plumbing, electrical or HVAC work. No person shall interfere with or refuse to
permit access to any such premises to an Inspector or his/her agent while in
the performance of his/her duties. In the event that an Inspector is refused
access to any such premises, then the Inspector is authorized to apply for a
special inspection warrant pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0119.
   F.   Inspections. In order to permit inspection of a project at all
necessary phases without causing delay for the owner, the owner and/or
contractor shall request all of the following inspections in conformity with
the appropriate time frame defined in the Wisconsin Administrative Code:
      1.   Footing and foundation inspection.
      2.   Rough inspections of:
         a.   General construction / carpentry, including framing.
         b.   Electrical, including service.
         c.   Plumbing.
         d.   Heating, ventilating and air conditioning.
         e.   Basement drain tiles / floor.
      3.   Insulation.
      4.   Final Inspection of carpentry, HVAC, electrical and plumbing
      5.   Erosion Control.
      6.   A recertification of footings and foundation may be required at the
discretion of the Building Inspector.
   G.   Failure to request any inspection will be the responsibility of the
contractor and/or property owner. No construction shall be deemed approved by
default or lack of inspection by the appropriate Inspector, except as provided
by the Wisconsin Administrative Code.
   H.   The expense of uncovering or exposing any work which must be inspected,
where such work was required by the failure of the owner to request any
inspection, will be the responsibility of the contractor and/or property owner.
   I.   Records. The appropriate Inspector shall perform all administrative
tasks required by the State under all codes adopted in this chapter. In
addition, each Inspector shall keep a record of all applications for permits
and shall number each permit in the order of its issuance. Each Inspector shall
file monthly and annual reports as required by the Village Board, and such
other reports as may be required by the Wisconsin Statutes or Administrative
Code.
   J.   The officials and staff of the Village of Rochester shall assist the
Inspectors in the enforcement of these Regulations as necessary.
11-11. SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   A.   Except as set forth in s.
11-9, the owner or contractor shall, with respect to any proposed construction
or demolition, submit three sets of building, HVAC, plumbing and/or electrical
plans to the appropriate Inspector for any work which expands the size of a
building, any new building, or as required by the Inspector. If a new building
or building addition is proposed, then a plot plan drawn to scale showing such
proposed work and existing buildings and property lines shall be submitted. An
Inspector may require the owner or contractor to submit plans for any
construction or demolition project when the Inspector determines that it is
necessary to review such plans to assure that the proposed project will comply
with all applicable codes.
   B.   At the option of the Building Inspector, the requirement for submission
of certain plans, data, specifications or a survey with an application for
permit to execute minor alterations or repairs to any building, structure or
equipment may be waived by the Inspector, provided the proposed construction is
sufficiently described in the application for the permit.
   C.   The Plans required under s.
11-12 shall also be submitted.
11-12. ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A.   The appropriate Inspector shall issue the requested permit if the owner
or contractor demonstrates that all state, county and local submission
requirements are satisfied. If a permit card is issued, it shall be posted at
the job site in a location visible from the street.
   B.   Expiration.
      1.   New Residential and Commercial Structures. A permit for a new
Residential or a new Commercial principal structure or an addition to such a
structure shall expire 24 months after issuance if the dwelling exterior has
not been completed or the exterior shell of the commercial building has not
been enclosed. In the event that a Permit expires, a new application must be
submitted and a new permit obtained, with fees therefore charged based upon the
current fee schedule. Failure to apply for a new permit within 30 days of the
date of permit lapse shall result in penalties pursuant to s.
11-50.
      2.   Alterations to Residential and Commercial Structures.
         a.   A permit for interior alteration of a Residential principal
structure shall expire 12 months after issuance. In the event that a Permit
expires, a new application must be submitted and a new permit obtained, with
fees therefore charged based upon the current fee schedule. Failure to apply
for a new permit within 30 days of the date of permit lapse shall result in
penalties pursuant to s.
11-50.
         b.   Pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code s. SPS 361.36 and the provisions
therein for the expiration of state-approved plans, a permit for interior
renovation or HVAC construction of a Commercial principal structure that does
not include any associated building construction shall expire 12 months after
issuance if the work is not completed in that year, and a permit for a fire
protection system in a Commercial principal structure that does not include any
associated building construction shall expire two years after issuance. In the
event that a Permit expires, a new application must be submitted and a new
permit obtained, with fees therefore charged based upon the current fee
schedule. Failure to apply for a new permit within 30 days of the date of
permit lapse shall result in penalties pursuant to s.
11-50.
      3.   Accessory Structures. A permit for construction or renovation of any
Accessory Structure shall expire 12 months after issuance if the structure
exterior has not been completed or the exterior shell of a building has not
been enclosed. In the event that a Permit expires, a new application must be
submitted and a new permit obtained, with fees therefore charged based upon the
current fee schedule. Failure to apply for a new permit within 30 days of the
date of permit lapse shall result in penalties pursuant to s.
11-50.
   C.   By accepting a permit, the applicant, owner or contractor grants the
Inspector the right of access to the real estate on which the permitted
construction or demolition will occur.
   D.   Permits are issued conditionally on the condition that the owner and/or
contractor(s) shall conform to the requirements of all applicable codes, zoning
ordinances and setback requirements in constructing the building.
   E.   No permit shall be issued to any person who is in violation of these
Regulations until such violation has been corrected, nor to any person who owes
the Village any permit fees.
   F.   No permit shall be issued to any person against whom an order issued by
an Inspector is pending.
   G.   It shall be the responsibility of the installer or contractor to
determine if a permit is required and to obtain the same prior to commencing
work.
   H.   Contractor Certification.
      1.   Except for an owner of a dwelling who resides or will reside in the
dwelling, no person may obtain a Building Permit unless the person annually
obtains a Certificate of Financial Responsibility from the Wisconsin Department
of Safety and Professional Services in compliance with Wis. Stat. s. 101.654.
      2.   Except for an owner of a single-family building owned and occupied
by him as his or her home or farm building, or as otherwise excepted under Wis.
Stat. s. 145.06, no person may obtain a Plumbing Permit unless the person is
licensed or registered pursuant to Wis. Stat. ch. 145.
      3.   Except for an owner of a single-family building owned and occupied
by him as his or her home, or unless otherwise exempted by law, no person may
obtain an Electrical Permit unless that person is licensed pursuant to Wis.
Stat. s. 101.82.
   I.   Construction site requirements.
      1.   Refuse Containers.
         a.   For new construction, the permittee shall be responsible for the
provision at the construction site of a rear load refuse bin (dumpster), and,
where appropriate, a recycling container, of sufficient size to adequately
contain the waste and recyclable material generated at the site, or, if
approved by the Building Inspector, shall provide an adequate method of on-site
recycling at such site.
         b.   For improvement, remodeling, reconstruction, addition, or
partition, of an existing structure, the permittee shall be responsible for the
placement on the site of a rear load refuse bin (dumpster), and, where
appropriate, a recycling container, of a sufficient size to handle the refuse
and recyclable material generated, if, in the determination of the Building
Inspector, a dumpster and/or recycling container are required based upon the
nature and extent of the work to be accomplished.
      2.   Restroom Facilities.
         a.   For new construction, portable restroom facilities shall be
provided by the permittee.
         b.   For improvement, remodeling, reconstruction, addition, or
partition, of an existing structure, the Building Inspector may order that
portable restroom facilities be provided by the permittee based upon the nature
and extent of the work to be accomplished and the availability of restroom
facilities in the immediate vicinity of the project.
      3.   Drain Tile. The permittee shall notify the Village of Rochester
immediately any time a drain tile is damaged or cut during excavation. Drain
tile shall be repaired or rerouted at the expense of the owner of the property.
Repairs shall be done in accordance with the instructions of the Building
Inspector or Department of Public Works representative.
11-13. OCCUPANCY BOND.
   A deposit in an amount determined by the Village Board and set forth in the
Fee Schedule is required for all new construction projects where the total
cost, including labor, materials and supplies, will equal or exceed $50,000.
The deposit shall be refunded after the project is completed and the Inspectors
have found that the building complies with all applicable codes. The deposit
shall be forfeited if occupancy occurs before final inspection and the issuance
of an occupancy permit, or extends after a temporary occupancy permit expires.
It shall also be forfeited if the exterior is not finished within two years of
the date the permit is issued.
11-14. OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   A.   If the Building Inspector, after all required inspections are
completed, performs a final inspection and finds that a building has been
constructed in accordance with the applicable codes, then the Inspector shall
issue an occupancy permit. If the building fails to comply with the code in
minor respects which do not threaten the safety, health or welfare of the
building's occupants, the Building Inspector may issue a temporary occupancy
permit for 30 days or a specified term. No person may have occupancy of a
building until an occupancy permit is issued. In lieu of a Temporary Permit,
the Building Inspector may set forth the requirements for completion of the
work and accept a financial surety, payable to the Village, to ensure that the
work is completed within a specified time frame, and may issue an Occupancy
Permit. A fee for an Occupancy Permit, in an amount established by the Village
Board, shall be paid prior to the issuance of the Occupancy Permit pursuant to
this subsection.
   B.   All of the following restrictions must be complied with before an
occupancy permit is issued:
      1.   All debris on road surface must be properly disposed of during
construction.
      2.   All pavement or road surfaces which are damaged during construction
must be repaired at property owner expense.
      3.   Where street lights are not available, owners must install a
decorative photo cell operated light, either next to the curb and gutter in Fox
Knoll Subdivision, or not more than 20 feet nor less than ten feet from the lot
line in Weber Estates, or as required by the Village in other areas. This light
must be 100 minimum to 150 maximum wattage, incandescent light or equivalent.
      4.   All exteriors must be completed within two years of issuance of a
building permit.
11-15. FEES.
   A.   At the time of issuance of a permit applied for under these
Regulations, the applicant shall pay fees as established periodically by the
Village and set forth in the Fee Schedule. Said fee schedule shall include fees
for plan review as set forth therein.
   B.   In instances where a building permit covers primarily the construction
of church buildings to be used for congregational gatherings, or for schools
for the education of individuals in grades pre-school through the twelfth
grade, the fee shall be calculated pursuant to the “Commercial” category and
then shall be reduced to two thirds of the calculated amount in such instance.
   C.   Where additional inspections are necessary due to condemned work
resulting from faulty construction or repairs, or where additional inspections
are necessary because of the failure to make corrections in work found faulty
or defective, a reinspection fee, in the amount set forth in the Fee Schedule,
shall be paid.
   D.   There shall be added to the fee schedule as from time to time adopted
and revised by the Village Board of the Village of Rochester a provision
allowing for the compensation of the Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector,
and Electrical Inspector of the Village of Rochester, a fee for each inspection
which is accomplished by any such inspector at the direction of the Village of
Rochester, inclusive of any follow-up involved in that same inspection process,
the said direction to be provided by the Village Board, the Village Plan
Commission, the Village Health Officer, the Village President, or the Village
Attorney.
   E.   In the event any work shall be commenced, for which a permit is
required, prior to obtaining such permit from an Inspector, the same shall
constitute a violation of these Regulations, double fees shall be charged, and
the violator shall be subjected to the penalties as set forth in s.
11-50 and
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code, and further, every day of the continuance of
the circumstance hereinabove described shall constitute a separate violation of
these Regulations.
   F.   Permit fees shall become the property of the Village and shall not be
refundable.
11-16. DISCLAIMER AND NON-LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   A.   Village Not Liable. These Regulations shall not be construed to relieve
or lessen the responsibility or liability of any person supplying building,
HVAC, electrical or plumbing services or materials, or selling, renting,
leasing, owning, distributing, connecting, disconnecting or maintaining any
building, HVAC, electrical or plumbing equipment for damages to persons or
property caused by any defect therein or therefrom; nor shall the Village be
held as assuming any such responsibility or liability by reason of the issuance
or revocation of any license, permit or certificate or by reason of the
approval or disapproval of any such equipment, plans or applications,
information or schedules in these Regulations; nor shall the Village be held
liable for any damages resulting from enforcement of these Regulations.
   B.   Village Officials Not Liable. Where action has been taken by any
Inspector or his duly authorized representative, or by any member of the Plan
Commission or Village Board, or by any other Village official or duly
authorized representative, to enforce these Regulations, such action or act
shall be considered as done in the name of and on behalf of the Village; and
any such person so acting for the Village shall not be judged as liable for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as the result of any such act
committed in the discharge of his duties.
   C.   These Regulations shall not be construed as an assumption of liability
by the Village or any Inspector for damages because of injuries sustained or
property destroyed by any defect in any dwelling or equipment.
ARTICLE 2 ADDITIONAL BUILDING CODE PROVISIONS
11-20. SCOPE OF UNIFORM DWELLING CODE EXPANDED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the standards contained in the Wisconsin
Uniform Dwelling Code shall be expanded to apply as the standards for
construction of the following:
   A.   Additions, alterations and major equipment replacements for one and two
family dwellings built prior to the enactment of current Uniform Dwelling Code.
   B.   Detached accessory buildings greater than 200 sq. ft. serving one and
two family dwellings.
      1.   Frost Protection for Footings and Foundations.
      2.   Grade-beam slabs are required for structures with a continuous
floating slab of reinforced concrete. The slab shall not be less than four
inches in thickness. Reinforcement shall be a minimum of six by six inch,
number ten wire mesh or by using 1.5 pounds of fiber mesh per cubic yard of
concrete with varying fiber mesh lengths. The slab shall be provided with a
thickened edge all around, eight inches wide and eight inches below the top of
the slab.
      3.   Structures not constructed with a floating slab shall have footings
and foundations placed below frost penetration level, but in no case less than
48 inches below grade or as otherwise provided in Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 321.
   C.   Detached accessory buildings less than 200 square feet in size.
Concrete slabs, frost-free footings, and the like are not required, but if they
are installed they shall follow B. above and/or Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 321.
Wood bearing beams, walls or members in contact with the ground shall be
pressure treated or decay resistant type wood per Wis. Admin. Code s. SPS
321.10.
   D.   Bath or toilet rooms shall be not less than fourteen square feet in
area with a minimum width of three feet and shall have at least 100 cubic feet
of air space for each water closet and urinal, in addition to the space
required for other fixtures in the toilet room. To conform with conditions in
older existing buildings, this requirement is subject to variance upon
application to and approval by the Board of Appeals.
   E.   Construction sites. The property owners and the prime contractors in
charge of any construction site shall maintain the construction site in such a
manner that litter will be prevented from being carried from the premises by
the elements. All litter from construction activities or any related activities
shall be picked up at the end of each work day and placed in containers which
will prevent litter from being carried away from the premises by the elements.
      1.   For major construction projects, i.e.: roof replacement, siding
replacement, major modification as determined by the building inspector and
including, but not limited to, razing or new construction there shall be a
dumpster, the size to be determined by building inspector, on site in which to
place all debris and litter.
      2.    2 Noise from Remodeling, Repair, Construction, Excavation or
Demolition. It is unlawful and shall be considered a nuisance for any person to
engage in the construction, including excavation and demolition, alteration,
remodeling or repair of any building or structure; the construction of any
roadway or other public improvements; or the operation or startup of any pile
driver, power shovel, backhoe, bulldozer, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or
electric hoist, or other construction machinery, the noise of which can be
heard beyond the property lines, or the vibration of which can be felt beyond
the property lines, other than between the hours of seven a.m. and seven p.m.,
Monday through Friday, or between the hours of eight a.m. and five p.m. on
Saturdays without the approval of the Village board. No such work is permitted
on Sundays and the following national holidays: Christmas, New Year’s Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day.
         a.   This subsection:
            (1)   does not prohibit a private person from working on the
jobsite of a commercial or residential real estate development construction
project on a Saturday.
            (2)   does not apply to a private person who works on a commercial
or residential real estate development construction project on a Saturday if
the person works between the hours of seven a.m. and seven p.m.
            (3)   does not preclude individual homeowners from doing work on
buildings and structures located on the property on which they reside during
daylight hours.
         b.   In the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety, the chairperson of the Village Public Works Committee or Village
President can give written approval for such work. Such approval may be granted
for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and
which may be renewed for periods of three days or less while the emergency
continues. If the chairperson of the Public Works Committee or Village
President should determine that the public health and safety will not be
impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or
the excavation of streets and highways within the hours of six p.m. and seven
a.m., and if he shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result
to any party in interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done
within the hours of seven p.m. and seven a.m., upon application being made at
the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work
 
Notes
2 2 Amended by Ordinance 2018-5, Adopted 8.6.18
11-21. ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL.
   No building permit required by the Village Building Code adopted by
reference in this chapter shall be issued unless it has been approved by the
Plan Commission pursuant to the Architectural Control provisions of this
Section and ch. 35, Planning and Zoning, unless the work to be performed under
the building permit is exempted from review under this section or that chapter,
or does not change the exterior facade or character of the structure.
   A.   Compliance. For the purpose of promoting compatible development,
aesthetics, stability of property values, and to prevent impairment or
depreciation of property values in the Village of Rochester, no structure shall
hereafter be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or have its
exterior altered or changed in such a manner as to violate the principles set
forth in subsection B. of this Section.
   B.   Principles. To implement and define criteria for the purposes set forth
in subsection A, the following principles are established:
      1.   The design or exterior appearance of a building or sign which is of
such unorthodox or abnormal character in relation to its surroundings as to be
unsightly or offensive to generally accepted taste and community standards is
not permitted.
      2.   The design or exterior appearance of a building or sign which is so
identical with those adjoining as to create excessive monotony or drabness is
not permitted.
      3.   Any exposed facade or roof of a building or a sign that is not
constructed or faced with a finished material that is aesthetically compatible
with the other facades, roofs or signs and presents an attractive appearance to
the public and to surrounding properties is not permitted.
      4.   No building or sign shall be permitted to be sited on a property in
a manner which would unnecessarily destroy or substantially damage the natural
beauty of the area, particularly insofar as it would adversely affect values
incident to ownership of land in that area; or which would unnecessarily have
an adverse effect on the beauty and general enjoyment of existing structures on
adjoining properties.
   C.   Administration. The Building Inspector shall require that each building
permit application in any district be accompanied by plans showing the exterior
elevations, including roofs, of all existing and proposed structures on the
property; a description of the proposed materials to be used; and proposed
floor elevations of all structures.
      1.   The Building Inspector shall review permit applications for minor
exterior alterations, siding permits, roofing permits, and permits for decks
and accessory structures less than 200 square feet in size pursuant to the
standards set forth in Section
35-22 of
Chapter 35 and subsection B. of this Section. If, in the Building Inspector’s
judgment and experience the standards have been met, he may issue the permit
according to the requirements of this Code. If, in the Building Inspector’s
judgment and experience the standards have not been met or are in question, or
he has a concern regarding the application of the standards, he may, in his
discretion, refer the application to the Plan Commission pursuant to subsection
C.2 of this Section.
      2.   The Building Inspector shall transmit all building permit
applications not exempted in subsection C.1. and their accompanying plans to
the Village Plan Commission for the Plan Commission’s review and determination,
with the exception that structures reviewed by the Historic Preservation
Committee pursuant to
Chapter 38, or reviewed previously via site plan or developer’s agreement; and
permits that do not affect the exterior structure may be excluded.
      3.   See also Section
35-22.
   D.   Review and Findings. The Plan Commission shall review the referred
plans at a subsequent meeting; but not more than 45 days after the original
application for a building permit. The Plan Commission shall not approve any
building plans unless it finds after viewing the application that the
structure, as planned, will not violate the principles set forth in Section
35-22 of
Chapter 35 and subsection B. of this Section. If an application is rejected,
the Commission shall set forth the reasons for the rejection in writing.
   E.   Appeals. Any person or persons aggrieved by any decisions of the Plan
Commission related to architectural control may appeal the decision to the
Zoning Board of Appeals. Such appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk
within 30 days after the filing of the decision with the Building Inspector.
11-22. FIRE BREAK IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Location of Fire Walls to Be Shown on Plans. In every instance in which
this chapter requires the provision for installation of fire walls or fire
breaks, the location of each such fire wall or fire break shall be clearly
shown on the architectural plans for the proposed construction.
   B.   Fire Walls to Be Identified. In conformance with Wis. Admin. Code s.
SPS 362.0706, Fire Wall Identification and pursuant thereto, the Village of
Rochester shall require owners to identify the location of a fire wall at the
exterior wall of a building with a sign as provided therein and in subsection
C, below.
   C.   Sign Requirements.
      1.   General. The sign shall consist of three circles arranged vertically
on the exterior wall marking the location of the fire division wall or
occupancy separation wall and centered on the fire division wall or occupancy
separation wall. The circles may be affixed directly to the surface of the
building or may be placed on a background material which is affixed to the
building.
      2.   Size of Circle. Each circle shall be the same size. The diameter of
the circle shall be at least one and one half inches, but no greater than two
inches.
      3.   Spacing. The circles shall be spaced equal distance apart. The
maximum distance measured from the top of the uppermost circle to the bottom of
the lowermost circle shall be twelve inches.
      4.   Color. The color of the circle shall be limited to the colors red,
amber (orange-yellow) or white (clear) and shall be reflective. The color of
the circle shall contrast with the color of the background.
      5.   Location. The top of the sign shall be located on the face of the
exterior wall of the building and located no more than twelve inches below the
eave, roof edge, fascia or parapet.
11-23. ANTENNA FACILITIES.
   No antenna facility, including a “dish” antenna 40 inches or more in
diameter, an antenna 40 inches or more in diameter or diagonal measurement, an
antenna that extends higher than 12 feet above the roofline, or any mast that
extends higher than 12 feet above the roofline, shall be erected or placed on
any property within the Village until a permit shall have first been obtained
from the Village Board, provided, however, that if the provisions of sections
35-150 or
35-151 of this Code apply to the type of antenna facility that is the subject
of the application conflict with the provisions of this section, the provisions
of this section do not apply and the Inspector shall work in cooperation with
the Zoning Administrator for permit issuance within the time limits and other
restrictions set forth therein.
   A.   Application. Application for an antenna facility permit shall be made
in writing to the Village Clerk who shall in turn submit it to the Plan
Commission. With such application, there shall be submitted a fee in an amount
set by the Village Board and a complete set of plans and specifications,
including a plot plan showing the location of the proposed antenna facility
with respect to adjoining alleys, lot lines and buildings. If such application
shall be approved by the Plan Commission, it shall then be submitted to the
Village Board at its next regular meeting for final approval. The Plan
Commission shall act on all such applications within a period of 45 days.
   B.   Location of Antenna Facilities. In order to protect public safety and
the safety of the adjoining residences, any such antenna facility approved for
placement within the Village may only be located in the rear yard of a
residential lot and at such a distance from the adjoining lots as to prevent
encroachment on the adjoining lots in case of collapse. It shall also be placed
as close to the residence as is reasonably possible. Placement in other
districts shall be approved by the Plan Commission. When determining the
location of any antenna facility, distance from power lines and any other
safety factors shall be considered, and shall be a basis for rejection of a
permit or a requirement that the antenna facility be located in a specific
location.
   C.   Connection to Electrical Lines. All electrical lines, cables and
conduits running to or from any such antenna facility shall be buried. If an
antenna facility is to be used by two or more residential property owners, all
interconnecting electrical connections, cables and conduits shall also be
buried. The location of all such underground lines, cables and conduits shall
be shown on the application for permit.
   D.   Wind Pressure. Each antenna facility shall be securely anchored to
withstand a maximum wind pressure anticipated, taking into consideration the
size, shape and weight of all of its components.
   E.   Temporary Placement. An antenna facility may be placed in a yard on a
trial basis for a period not exceeding ten days.
   F.   See also s.
35-150, Tower Facilities, of this Municipal Code.
11-24. SWIMMING POOLS.
   A.   Definition. “Swimming pool” shall mean any depression in the ground,
either temporary or permanent or a container of water, either temporary or
permanent and either above or below the ground, in which water of 32 or more
inches in depth at any point is contained, or which has a diameter of ten feet
or more. Spas, hot tubs, in ground, aboveground and public pools are included
in this definition.
   B.   Permits.
      1.   Permits Required.
         a.   The construction of a swimming pool, as defined herein, except as
set forth in subsection b., requires permits which include evaluation under the
Building Code, the Electrical Code, the Plumbing Code and the Zoning Code. One
application for a “Pool Permit” as set forth herein, shall be accepted for
review under the Building Code, the Plumbing Code and the Zoning Code. A
separate application for evaluation under the Electrical Code, as set forth in
s.
11-44, is required. A separate Deck and/or Fence Permit is required, even when
the deck and/or fence is constructed at the same time as the swimming pool.
         b.   Those swimming pools classified as public swimming pools and
requiring state permits pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code chs. SPS 390, Design and
Construction of Public Swimming Pools and Water Attractions, and DHS 172,
Safety, Maintenance and Operation of Public Swimming Pools and Water
Attractions, shall not be required to obtain the pool permit required herein.
      2.   Application. An applicant for a Pool Permit shall provide the
following information, along with the Permit Fees set forth in the Fee
Schedule, as follows:
         a.   Survey or accurate drawing of the property, in duplicate, showing
property dimensions, including square footage, all existing structures,
proposed swimming pool location, including distances to all existing
structures, filter and wastewater disposal locations, fencing if required,
proposed decking, and overhead or underground electrical wiring.
         b.   Type of pool installation, aboveground or in ground, including
dimensions and volume in gallons.
         c.   Pool height above highest point of grade if aboveground
installation.
         d.   Fences. This fencing requirement is applicable to all private
swimming pools, including those constructed before enactment of this Municipal
Code.
            (1)   Every private swimming pool shall be completely surrounded by
a fence or wall not less than 42 inches in height, be of sufficient strength to
prevent accidental access, and shall be constructed so as to not have openings,
holes or gaps larger than 42 inches in any one dimension, which would allow
ease of access by unauthorized persons, except for door or gates. A dwelling
house or accessory building may be used as part of such enclosure. All gates or
doors be equipped with an inside self-closing and self-latching device for
keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times when not in actual use,
except that the door of any dwelling which forms a part of the enclosure need
not be so equipped.
            (2)   A temporary fence (such as a snow fence or similar fence) may
be used while a pool is under construction. A permanent fence must be
constructed within 30 days after water is in the pool.
            (3)   Aboveground pools with self-provided fencing to prevent
unguarded entry will be allowed without separate additional fencing provided
the self-provided fence is of minimum required height and design as heretofore
specified. All access from grade to above ground pools having ladders, stairs,
or ramps shall not have less than equal safeguard protection than that provided
the pool proper.
            (4)   The requirement of a fence may be waived by the Building
Inspector if the pool is an aboveground pool and if the deck of said pool is at
least four feet above grade and the Building Inspector determines from an on-
site inspection that, except for ladders or other access devices, the outside
pool wall or decking is at least four feet above grade and provides no direct
access to the pool.
         e.   Type and support of decking, if proposed.
         f.   Overall size and locations of the above in regard to existing
buildings and lot lines for property survey reference.
         g.   Any change in finished grades near the pool.
         h.   Two copies of a brochure which shows the type and style of the
pool to be installed.
         i.   Prior to making the application for a pool permit, the applicant
shall check subdivision or homeowner’s association regulations regarding
swimming pools and shall include those regulations with the application. The
Village shall not enforce, and shall not be responsible for the enforcement of,
said subdivision or homeowner’s association regulations, but when it is made
aware of them, may include them in its consideration of the application.
      3.   Issuance. An applicant shall be issued a pool permit if the
submitted plans are in conformance with the applicable sections of this
Municipal Code. For storable pools, the pool permit shall be valid for
subsequent years if the pool is re-erected in the same location and uses the
same power source listed in the application. If a storable pool is erected in a
different location or uses a different power source in any subsequent year, a
new permit shall be applied for.
      4.   Inspections. The Inspectors shall perform inspections of pool
construction as required by state statute, administrative code, and this Code.
11-25. UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that any building or structure is
so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use, the
Inspector shall recommend to the Village Board an order be sent to the owner to
raze and remove all or part thereof, or to repair the same if such structure
can be made safe and sanitary by reasonable repairs. Upon consideration of the
Inspector’s recommendation, the Village Board may direct the Inspector to issue
a raze order or a raze or repair order. Such orders and proceedings shall be as
provided in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0413. See also s.
20-1 of this Municipal Code.
11-26. RAZING AND DEMOLITION.
   A.   Demolition Permit Required. No person may cause the demolition of any
structure or part of a structure greater than 400 square feet in area without
having first applied for and obtained a demolition permit from the Building
Inspector. No person may undertake any steps to demolish the structure prior to
receiving a permit.
   B.   Application. An application for a permit to demolish all or part of a
building shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner of the building on the date of the
application and, if different, on the date of the demolition;
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the contractor(s)
performing the demolition work;
      3.   The date upon which demolition is to commence;
      4.   The date by which demolition shall be complete;
      5.   A list of all hazardous waste and hazardous and toxic substances (as
defined by Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 706, as amended from time to time) contained
in the building, a statement as to whether the building contains asbestos (as
defined by Wis. Admin. Code chs. NR 445 and 447), and a detailed description of
the method to be used in removing, transporting and disposing of any hazardous
waste, hazardous and toxic substances, and asbestos;
      6.   A detailed description of how and where the waste materials
resulting from the demolition will be transported and disposed of (including
the description of the route to be used by trucks in hauling the waste);
      7.   A description of the method of demolition to be used;
      8.   A description in detail of all methods to be used to prevent water
runoff and soil erosion from the site to neighboring properties and to prevent
releasing unreasonable amounts of dust from the site; and
   C.   Demolition. The demolition shall be conducted in a manner that is safe
and that does not adversely affect the environment.
   D.   Clearing and Leveling the Site.
      1.   The site of any demolition shall be properly cleared of debris,
rubbish and pavement and shall be properly graded and leveled to conform with
the adjoining grade of the neighboring property; and when so graded and
leveled, the site shall be seeded, sodded or treated in some other manner
acceptable to the Building Inspector so as to prevent blowing dust, dirt, or
sand. Excavations remaining after demolition shall be filled, graded and
leveled off, not later than 30 consecutive days after demolition is completed,
and shall be protected from entry until filled.
      2.   Excavations from demolished buildings or structures shall not be
filled with any materials subject to deterioration. The Building Inspector,
upon notification by the permit holder, the owner or his agent, in writing and
upon forms provided by the Building Inspector for that purpose, shall, within
72 hours, inspect each excavation, or part thereof, before the excavation is
filled.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to fill any such excavation without inspection
and approval of the Building Inspector. Voids in filled excavations shall not
be permitted. In the event of the unavailability of the Building Inspector to
conduct an inspection within the 72 hours after written notice; the permit
holder, owner or his agent may retain the services of a certified, qualified
municipal inspection service to obtain an opinion that approves filling of the
excavation. Said opinion shall be deemed a sufficient approval by the Village
provided that a written copy of the opinion is delivered to the Clerk at least
48 hours before filling of the excavation commences.
   E.   Removal and Disposal. Removal, transportation and disposal of all
hazardous waste, hazardous and toxic substances, and asbestos shall be
conducted in compliance with all applicable state, federal and local statutes,
ordinances and regulations. The permit holder shall give the Building Inspector
72 hours’ written notice prior to any removal, transportation or disposal of
hazardous waste, hazardous and toxic substances, and asbestos.
11-27. MOVING BUILDINGS.
   A.   General. No person shall move any building or structure upon any of the
public rights-of- way of the Village without first obtaining a permit therefore
from the Building Inspector and upon the payment of required fee. Every such
permit issued by the Building Inspector for the moving of a building shall
designate the route to be taken, the conditions to be complied with and shall
limit the time during which said moving operations shall be continued. This
section does not apply to manufactured homes per the Federal Fair Housing Act.
   B.   Moving Damaged Buildings. No building shall be repaired, altered or
moved within or into the Village that has deteriorated or has been damaged by
any cause (including such moving and separation from its foundation and service
connections in case of moved buildings) 50 percent or more of its equalized
value. No permit shall be granted to repair, alter or move such building within
or into the Village. Furthermore, if the equalized assessed value of the
building is not within 10% of the surrounding buildings within 1,000 feet of
the parcel where the building is proposed to be moved to, no permit shall be
granted unless the building is improved so that its equalized value is within
10% of the lowest equalized value of any of the surrounding buildings.
   C.   Continuous Movement. The movement of buildings shall be a continuous
operation during all the hours of the day, and day by day and at night until
such movement is fully completed. All of such operations shall be performed
with the least possible obstruction to thoroughfares. No building shall be
allowed to remain overnight upon any street crossing or intersection, or so
near thereto as to prevent easy access to a public facility. Lighted lanterns
shall be kept in conspicuous places at each end of the building during the
night.
   D.   Street Repair and Inspection. Every person receiving a permit to move a
building shall, prior to moving the building, accompany the Building Inspector
and the Chairperson of the Public Works Committee on an inspection of the route
the building will travel within the Village limits. The applicant shall, within
one day after said building reaches its destination, report the fact to the
Building Inspector who shall thereupon, in the company of the Chairperson of
the Public Works Committee, inspect the streets and highways over which said
building has been moved and ascertain the condition. If the movement of said
building has caused any damage to any street or highway, the person to whom the
permit was issued shall forthwith place them in good repair as they were before
the permit was granted. On the failure of the said permittee to do so within
ten days thereafter to the satisfaction of the Village Board, the Village Board
shall repair the damage done to such streets and hold the person obtaining such
permit and the sureties on his bond responsible for payment of same.
   E.   Conformance with Code. No permit shall be issued to move a building
within or into the Village and to establish it upon a location within the said
Village until the Building Inspector has made an investigation of such building
at the location from which it is to be moved and is satisfied from such
investigation that said building is in a sound and stable condition and of such
construction that it will meet the requirements of this Building Code in all
respects. A complete plan of all further repairs, improvements and remodeling,
with reference to such building, shall be submitted to the Building Inspector,
and he shall make a finding of fact to the effect that all such repairs,
improvements and remodeling are in conformity with the requirements of this
Building Code and that when same are completed, the building, as such, will so
comply with said Building Code. In the event a building is to be moved from the
Village to some point outside of the boundaries thereof, the provisions, with
respect to the furnishing of plans and specifications for proposed alterations
to such building, may be disregarded.
   F.   Cash Deposit.
      1.   Before a permit is issued to move any building over any public way
in this Village, the party applying for said permit shall post a performance
bond in the form of a cash deposit with the Village in a sum to be fixed by the
Village. Said performance bond shall be held for indemnification of the Village
for any costs or expenses incurred by it in connection with any claims for
damages to any persons or property, and the payment of any judgment, together
with the costs or expenses incurred by the Village in connection therewith,
arising out of the movement of the building for which the permit is issued. The
bond shall be released if, after the building is moved, the Building Inspector
and Chairperson of the Public Works Committee have found that the permit was
complied with and no damages were caused by the move.
      2.   The release of the bond required by subsection 1. shall be further
conditioned upon the permittee erecting adequate barriers and within 48 hours,
filling in any excavation or adopting and employing such other means, devices
or methods approved by the Building Inspector and reasonably adopted or
calculated to prevent the occurrences set forth herein. The Building Inspector
may waive the time lines in this paragraph if the Building Inspector, after
investigation, determines that the excavation exposed by the removal of a
building from its foundation is not so close to a public thoroughfare as to
constitute a hazard to persons, particularly children under 12 years of age.
   G.   Insurance. The Building Inspector shall require, in addition to said
bond above indicated, public liability insurance covering injury to one person
in the sum of not less than $500,000.00 and for one accident, aggregate not
less than $1,000,000.00, together with property damage insurance in a sum not
less than $500,000.00, or such other coverage as deemed necessary.
   H.   Village Board Approval Required.
      1.   Before any permit to relocate a building may be issued, the Village
Board shall examine the application for the permit and approve the application
by a majority vote.
      2.   The application shall include exterior elevations of the building at
its proposed new location; accurate photographs of all sides and views of the
same; in case it is proposed to alter the exterior of said building, plans and
specifications of such proposed alterations, and a site plan showing the
location of the building on the final resting site.
      3.   The Village Board shall not grant a permit unless the Board has
taken a view of the building proposed to be moved and of the site at which it
is to be located at a public meeting.
      4.   The Village Board may not grant a permit for relocation of a
building unless it finds that the exterior appearances and design of the
building to be moved or moved and altered, will be consistent with the exterior
appearance and design of the buildings already constructed or in the course of
construction in the immediate neighborhood, or with the character of the
applicable district established by the zoning ordinances of the Village. No
permit shall be granted if the relocation will cause a substantial depreciation
of the property values of the neighborhood to which the building is proposed to
be relocated.
      5.   In case the applicant proposed to alter the exterior of said
building after moving the same, he shall submit, with his application papers,
complete plans and specifications for the proposed alterations. Before a permit
shall be issued for a building to be moved and altered, the applicant shall
deposit a cash deposit or performance bond of not less than $5,000 with the
Village to secure the timely completion of all proposed exterior alterations to
said building as set forth in the plans and specifications. This cash deposit
or performance bond shall be in addition to any other bond or surety which may
be required by other applicable ordinances of the Village. The cash deposit
shall be refunded after the exterior alterations are completed and the Building
Inspector has found the building exterior complies with the approved plans and
within the time frame set by the Village Board. The deposit shall be forfeited
if the exterior of the building does not comply with the approved plans or if
the time frame for completing the work is not adhered to.
      6.   No occupancy permit shall be issued for said building until the
exterior alterations proposed to be made have been completed.
      7.   Whenever an application for relocation of a building is made to the
Building Inspector, he shall place the consideration of the application on the
agenda of the next regularly scheduled Village Board meeting. The Building
Inspector shall inform the Village whether or not the application complies, in
all respects, with all other ordinances of the Village. The Village may, if it
desires, hold a public hearing on the permit.
ARTICLE 3 ADDITIONAL PLUMBING CODE PROVISIONS
11-30. EXISTING UNSANITARY INSTALLATIONS.
   See ss.
10-7 and
25-2 of this Municipal Code. 3
 
Notes
3 3 Amended 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
11-31. CONNECTIONS TO THE PUBLIC SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   A.   Connection Fee. No connection to the public sewerage system may be made
unless the connection fees as established by the Village Board have been paid.
   B.   Licensed Plumber to Do Work. Except as provided in Wis. Stat. s.
145.06, no person except a plumber licensed therefor shall be permitted to tap
or make connections with the general sewerage system or any part thereof.
   C.   Location of Drain Junctions. Such information as the Plumbing
Inspector, the Public Works Committee or the Village Engineer may have with
regard to the location of sewer junctions or slants shall be furnished to
plumbers, the Village assuming no risk as to the accuracy of the same. If the
junction is not found using the measurements furnished by the Village Engineer
or Plumbing Inspector, connection shall be made as provided in Wis. Admin. Code
ch. SPS 382.
   D.   Existing Drains or Sewers. Whenever it is necessary to disturb a drain
or sewer in actual use, the same shall not be obstructed or disconnected
without the permission of the Plumbing Inspector; and no person shall make any
new connection with, or extension to, any old drain without the permission of
the Plumbing Inspector.
   E.   Connecting During Freezing Weather. No opening in the street for making
connection with a main sewer shall be permitted when the ground is frozen,
except when the Plumbing Inspector judges such connection necessary. If such
permission is granted, the work shall be done as directed in the permit
therefor.
   F.   Sewer Connections. No work shall be done to connect any building to any
public sewer utility until such building is completely enclosed by roof, the
outside walls backfilled to rough grade, all sanitary sewer lines within
buildings to be connected that will be covered by basement floors having been
inspected and approved by the Building Inspector of the Village and a
functional sump and sump pump having been installed in the basement, if
required. In buildings without basements the permit shall be issued after the
footing and subfloor have been constructed. No permit shall be issued for the
connection with the public sewer of any basement floor drain in any building
located within the 100 year flood plain as established and determined under the
Village flood plain ordinance. Buildings within the 100 year flood plain shall
not have public sewer service for any floor located below the exterior finished
grade.
11-33. PLUMBING REQUIRING STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   See s.
6-6 and ch. 10 of this Municipal Code.
11-34. DAMAGING PLUMBING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally, willfully or maliciously damage or obstruct
any sewer, house drain, catch basin or any plumbing fixture or apparatus, pipe
or other part of any plumbing in actual use, or any sewer or gas pipe, or any
part or apparatus connected therewith, laid or constructed in a street, alley
or other public place or under any sidewalk of the Village.
11-35. SWIMMING POOLS.
   A.   Definition. In this section, “Swimming Pool” shall have the meaning set
forth in s.
11-24.A. of this Chapter.
   B.   Permit Required. See s.
11-24B of this chapter.
ARTICLE 4 ADDITIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE PROVISIONS
11-40. EXISTING UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall make periodic inspections of all electrical
wires and appliances installed within the Village, except in occupied
dwellings. When such wires or appliances are found to be in a dangerous or
unsafe condition, he shall notify the person owning, using, operating or
installing the same to place them in a safe condition. Any person failing or
refusing to complete the necessary repairs or changes within fifteen days after
receipt of such notice shall be subject to penalties pursuant to s.
11-50 for each day that elapses after the expiration of such period; and the
Electrical Inspector may order the discontinuance of electrical service to such
defective wires or appliances until they have been repaired, removed or changed
as directed by the Electrical Inspector, subject to the limitations of this
chapter.
11-41. STATE CERTIFICATION OF ELECTRICIANS REQUIRED.
   Wis. Stat. ss. 101.82, 101.87 and 101.88 and Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 305,
relating to the State certification of electricians, are adopted and by
reference made a part of this chapter with the same force and effect as though
set forth in full.
11-42. TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   An application for a permit for temporary service shall specify a period of
time for which such wiring is to remain in service. Service shall be cut off at
the end of such period and shall not again be connected without written
permission from the Electrical Inspector. For buildings in which conduit wiring
is required, special permits for temporary service may be granted by the
Electrical Inspector for the installation of open work and exposed wiring,
lights, power for building operations, display, decorative lighting, etc., for
use for a limited period, subject to discontinuance and complete removal at the
expiration and subject to condemnation and revocation within such period.
11-43. EMERGENCY SERVICE.
   A.   Report. For emergency service or work, the person doing such work or
causing such work to be done shall report the same to the Electrical Inspector
immediately after beginning work on forms furnished by the Electrical Inspector
for such purpose; and such work shall be done in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection Fee. Any fee for inspection of such emergency service shall
be determined in each individual case by the Village Board.
11-44. SWIMMING POOLS.
   A.   Definition. In this section, “Swimming Pool” shall have the meaning set
forth in s.
11-24.A. of this Chapter.
   B.   Permit Required. The electrical work, wiring and connections for
swimming pools as defined herein shall require an Electrical Permit in
conformance with this chapter.
11-45. COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints on improper or defective electrical equipment shall be
investigated and action shall be taken. Where complaints disclose inadequacy of
electrical equipment, the Electrical Inspector shall notify the owner of the
premises to that effect and in writing inform such owner as to the changes,
repairs, modifications or additions necessary for compliance with this chapter.
Upon failure of the owner to comply with the order of the Electrical Inspector
within ten days after receiving such notice, the latter may enter upon the
premises with such assistance as may be necessary, causing the existing
conditions to be corrected; and the cost thereof shall be charged against the
property and shall be a lien thereon and shall be assessed and collected as a
special charge pursuant to statute.
ARTICLE 5 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
11-48. VARIANCES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear requests for variances from the
provisions of this chapter to the extent that Board has authority to hear and
grant variances, as set forth in ch. 35, Planning and Zoning, of this Municipal
Code. The Board of Appeals shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a
requested variance. The Board of Appeals may grant a variance from a code
requirement only if the variance is permitted by state law and if the
performance of the proposed variance is equal to or greater than the Code
requires.
11-49. APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by an order of an Inspector may, within 20 days
thereafter, appeal from such order to the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to
ch. 35, Planning and Zoning, of this Municipal Code and not through the
provisions of Wis. Stat. ch. 68. Appeals of decisions of the Board of Appeals
may be made to the Circuit Court, pursuant to
Chapter 35. Appeals of final determinations may be reviewed as set forth in
Wis. Admin. Code s. SPS 320.21. The ruling of the Inspector shall be enforced
until reversed or modified by the Board of Appeals.
11-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Prohibition. No person may construct, remodel, demolish or repair any
building, structure or mechanical system in a manner which violates any
provision or provisions of these Regulations.
   B.   Stop Work Order. Any Inspector may issue a stop work order for a
project to prevent further non-complying work. No person may continue a
construction project after a stop work order has been issued. The person who
receives such a stop work order may contest the validity of the same by
requesting a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals, as set forth in s.
11-49. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall affirm the stop work order unless the
appellant shows that the Inspector erred in determining that the construction
project violated a provision or provisions of these Regulations or the State
Codes.
   C.   Every person who violates these Regulations or any regulation, rule, or
order made hereunder shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalties as set
forth in
Chapter 50.
   D.   Violations discovered by an Inspector shall be corrected within 30
days, or more if allowed by the Inspector, after written notice is given.
Violations involving life safety issues shall be corrected in a reasonable time
frame established by the Inspector.
   E.   Compliance with the requirements of these Regulations is necessary to
promote the safety, health and well-being of the community and the owners,
occupants and frequenters of buildings. Therefore, violation of these
Regulations shall constitute a public nuisance which may, in addition to
prosecution and/or the issuance of a stop work order, be enjoined in a civil
action.
   F.   The Village Law Enforcement Agency, Inspectors, Health Officer and/or
Clerk, or their authorized representatives, shall inquire into violations of
these Regulations and shall report the same to the appropriate official for
investigation and prosecution.
CHAPTER 12 STORMWATER UTILITY
12-1. PURPOSE AND NECESSITY.
   The purpose of and necessity for this chapter are as follows:
   A.   The management of storm water and other surface water discharges to
bodies of water within the Village of Rochester and adjacent to the
municipality is a matter that affects the public health, safety and welfare of
the Village of Rochester, its citizens and businesses and others in the
surrounding area.
   B.   Failure to effectively manage storm water affects the operations of the
Village of Rochester Sanitary Sewer Utility by, among other things, increasing
the likelihood of infiltration and inflow into the sanitary sewer system.
   C.   Surface water runoff may cause erosion of lands, threaten residences
and businesses with water damage, and create environmental damage to the
rivers, streams and other bodies of water within and adjacent to the
municipality.
   D.   A system for the collection and disposal of stormwater provides
services to all properties within the Village of Rochester and surrounding
areas, including those properties not currently served by the systems.
   E.   The cost of operating and maintaining the Village of Rochester’s
stormwater management system and financing necessary repairs, replacements,
improvements, and extensions thereof should, to the extent practicable, be
allocated in relationship to the services received from the system.
   F.   The provisions herein are required by and consistent with the Federal
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. ss. 1251 et seq.) and Wisconsin Statutes, both as
amended from time to time and the regulations set out thereunder.
12-2. AUTHORITY.
   This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted in Wis. Stat. ss.
61.34, 66.0821, and other applicable provisions of Wis. Stat. chapters 61 and
66 in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
12-3. ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER UTILITY.
   A.   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, the
Village Board of the Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin establishes
the Village of Rochester Stormwater Utility and shall set the charges for
stormwater management services from time to time.
   B.   The Public Works Manager shall be in charge of the day-to-day operation
of the Stormwater Utility, subject to the supervision of the Village Board.
12-4. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Village, acting through the Stormwater Utility, shall have the following
powers and duties:
   A.   Powers. The Village may acquire, construct, lease, own, operate,
maintain, improve, modify, extend, expand, replace, clean, dredge, repair,
conduct and manage programs, finance, borrow monies, assess and/or levy charges
for such facilities, operations, and activities, as are deemed by the Village
Board to be proper and reasonably necessary for a system of storm and surface
water management and to obtain compliance with applicable local, state and
federal storm water management requirements with which the Village of Rochester
must comply.
   B.   Facilities. Facilities may include, without limitation due to
enumeration, surface and underground drainage facilities, inlets, manholes,
catch basins, sewers, channels, watercourses, retaining walls, ponds, detention
and retention basins, infiltration facilities, streets, roads, ditches and such
other facilities as will support a storm water management system.
   C.   Charges. The Village may establish such charges as are necessary to
finance planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of the
facilities and to conduct necessary storm water programs and activities in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Chapter.
   D.   Budgeting Process. The Village shall prepare an annual budget which is
to include all operation and maintenance costs, debt service, and other costs
related to the operation of the Stormwater Utility. The costs shall be spread
over the charge classifications as determined by the Village Board.
   E.   Excess Revenues. The Village will retain any excess of revenues over
expenditures in a year in a segregated Stormwater Enterprise Fund which shall
be used exclusively for purposes consistent with this chapter.
12-5. DEFINITIONS.
   Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by
common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's
Dictionary. The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
   “Village Board” means the Village Board of the Village of Rochester, Racine
County, Wisconsin or designee.
   “Condominium” means property subject to a condominium declaration
established under Wis. Stat. ch. 703.
   “Development Density” means the percentage of the parcel covered by
impervious surface compared to the overall parcel size.
   “Duplex” means a residential space containing two dwelling units.
   “Dwelling Unit” means one or more rooms that are arranged, designed, or used
as living quarters for occupancy by a single-family unit or as classified by
the Village of Rochester's Zoning Code. Individual bathrooms and complete
kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall always be included for each
dwelling unit.
   “Equivalent Runoff Unit” or “ERU” means the basic unit by which the
Stormwater Utility charge is calculated; it is based upon the average amount of
impervious area on a single-family residential parcel as determined from a
representative sample of fully developed single-family parcels within the
municipality. An ERU is established as 4,000 square feet.
   “Farmstead Home Site” means that portion of any agricultural property which
contains one or more dwelling units, regardless of whether the dwelling units
are on a separate lot or parcel.
   “Impervious Area” or “Impervious Surface” means a horizontal surface that
has been compacted or covered with a layer of material so that it is highly
resistant to infiltration by rainwater or the runoff from snow melt. It
includes, but is not limited to, semi-impervious surfaces such as compacted
clay or gravel, as well as streets, roofs, roof extensions, patios, decks,
porches, sidewalks, loading docks, parking lots, driveways and other similar
surfaces.
   “Lot” means a parcel of land having a width and depth sufficient for one
principal building and its accessory building together with open spaces
required by the Village of Rochester’s Zoning Code and abutting a public street
or access easement.
   “Multi-family Residential” means a residential space consisting of three or
more dwelling units.
   “Non-Residential Property” means any developed lot or parcel not exclusively
residential property as defined herein, including, but not limited to,
transient rentals (such as hotels and motels), mobile home parks, commercial,
industrial, institutional, governmental property, and parking lots.
   “Person” means each and every property owner, including, but not limited to,
natural persons, partnerships, corporations, limited liability companies,
limited liability partnerships, joint ventures, and all other legal entities of
any kind or nature.
   “Public Works Manager” means the duly appointed Village Public Works Manager
or designee.
   “Residential Property” means any lot, parcel, or farmstead home site
developed exclusively for residential purposes including, but not limited to,
single family homes, manufactured homes, duplex units, multi-family apartment
and condominium units, but not including transient rentals (such as hotels and
motels).
   “Single Family Home” means any residential property consisting of a single
dwelling unit.
   “Stormwater Management Program” means activities required to control storm
water runoff to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, and to
comply with state and federal regulations. It includes construction and
maintenance of physical infrastructure as well development, implementation and
management of policies, procedures and programs necessary for regulatory
compliance. It includes but is not limited to street sweeping, erosion control,
storm water basin improvements and maintenance, culvert and storm sewer
maintenance, storm water testing, storm water management planning and related
public education.
   “Stormwater System” means the system of streets, curbs, gutters, berms,
swales, detention and retention ponds or basins, infiltration basins, pipes,
outfalls, inlets, and other components of infrastructure owned and/or
maintained by the municipality for the purpose of managing, gathering,
transmitting, treating or conveying stormwater. This term includes tributaries,
creeks, rivers, and streams.
   “Stormwater Utility” means the utility established under this chapter for
the purpose of managing storm water and imposing charges for the recovery of
costs connected with such storm water management.
   “Stormwater Management Charge” means the charge imposed under this chapter
for the rendering of services to the properties in the Village by the
Stormwater Utility.
   “Undeveloped Property” means property that has not been altered from its
natural state by the addition of any improvements such as a building,
structure, impervious surface, change of grade or landscaping; agricultural use
of property; or property that has been graded for residential or commercial
development but does not contain buildings, structures, or other improvements.
For new construction, a property shall be considered developed upon issuance of
a building occupancy permit.
   “Village” means the Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin.
12-6. PROPERTY CLASSIFICATIONS.
   A.   For purposes of imposing the Stormwater Utility charges, all lots and
parcels within the Village of Rochester are classified into the following
property classes:
      1.   Single-Family Residential
      2.   Duplex Residential
      3.   Multi-family Residential
      4.   Non-Residential
      5.   Agricultural / Park / Undeveloped (APU)
   B.   The Village Engineer shall prepare a list of lots and parcels within
the Village and assign such appropriate classification to each lot or parcel.
The billing amount shall be updated by the Village Clerk based on any additions
to the impervious area as approved through the building permit process.
   C.   The Village Board may make such other classifications in accordance
with this chapter as will be likely to provide reasonable and fair distribution
of the costs of the Stormwater Utility.
12-7. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT CHARGES.
   A.   By this Chapter, the Village of Rochester is establishing the basis for
the rates that will be used to calculate and impose a charge upon each lot or
parcel within the Village of Rochester for services and facilities provided by
the Village Board consistent with this chapter.
   B.   The actual charges to be imposed and any future changes in those
charges for each property classification shall be made by resolution and set
forth in the Fee Schedule adopted by the Village Board. All rates established
pursuant to this chapter shall be fair and reasonable. The Fee Schedule and the
classification of each property shall be maintained and on file in the office
of the Village Clerk.
   C.   Charges shall be imposed to recover all or a portion of the costs
incurred by the Village of Rochester for stormwater management. Such charges
may include, but are not limited to, the following components:
      1.   Equivalent Runoff Unit (ERU) Charge. The ERU charge shall be
assessed for each developed property in the Village of Rochester based upon the
amount of impervious area as reasonably determined by the Village Engineer. The
Village Engineer shall be responsible for determining the impervious area based
on the best available information, including, but not limited to, data supplied
by the Municipal Assessor, aerial photography, satellite imagery, the property
owner, tenant, or developer. The formula for the ERU charge shall reflect that
of a typical single-family unit.
         a.   The charge imposed for a single-family residential structure
shall be the rate for one ERU.
         b.   The charge imposed for duplex residential properties shall be the
rate of one-half (0.5) ERU for each individual dwelling unit existing on the
property.
         c.   Multi-family residential property will be charged multiples of
the ERU based on the impervious area, adjusted for development density by the
percentage of impervious area. The factor shall be rounded to the nearest 0.1.
The minimum charge for any multi-family parcel shall be equal to the rate for
one ERU.
         d.   Other units of property (Non-Residential Commercial, Industrial
and Tax Exempt) will be charged multiples of the ERU based on the impervious
area, adjusted for development density by the percentage of impervious area.
The factor shall be rounded to the nearest 0.1. The minimum charges for any
Non-Residential parcel shall be equal to the rate for one ERU.
         e.   Farmstead home sites shall be classified as single-family
residential parcels, and charged 1 ERU.
         f.   APU parcels greater than or equal to 5 acres in size that are not
dedicated conservation areas shall be charged 1 ERU. Multiple contiguous
parcels under common ownership shall be considered a single APU parcel and
charged 1 ERU. APU parcels smaller than 5 acres will not be charged.
      2.   Special Assessment. A Special Assessment may be imposed on property
that is in a specific area benefited by a particular stormwater management
facility pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0703. The special assessment will be
developed to reflect the benefits/services in a particular area that may not be
appropriate to spread to property throughout the Village of Rochester.
   D.   Stormwater management charges set forth in section C.1 shall be
allocated to the property served and are authorized to be levied and imposed on
said property as a special charge pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0627. The
charges shall be included on the property tax bill for the property and shall
be collected as set forth in said statute. The Village may, at its option, use
any other method of billing authorized by law.
12-8. CREDITS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   Credits and adjustments may be available to individual Non-Residential
property owners. It shall be the burden of the Non-Residential property owner
to request such a credit and/or adjustment and to demonstrate to a reasonable
degree of certainty with evidence that a fee credit and/or adjustment is
warranted. All applications for credits and adjustments shall be reviewed by
the Public Works Manager.
   A.   Credits.
      1.   Eligibility. A property owner may be eligible for a credit, in the
form of a reduced ERU multiplier, for a property where all of the following
conditions apply subject to the discretion, authority and approval of the
Village Board.
         a.   The Village’s cost of providing service or making service
available to the property has been reduced.
         b.   The property conforms to all applicable codes and standards of
the Village in effect at the time of parcel development.
         c.   The property has been assigned a Non-Residential or multi-family
residential user classification. Single and Two-family residential properties
are not eligible for credits.
      2.   Maximum Credit. The maximum aggregate credit for any individual
property is 50% of its ERU charge, regardless of how many credits the property
may otherwise be qualified to receive. No credit will be granted if the
parcel’s development density is less than 50%.
      3.   Credit Types. The following credits may be available for a property
that meets all eligibility requirements:
         a.   Zero Discharge Credit. Credits shall be considered for properties
that discharge storm water directly into a water body not maintained in any way
by the Village or the Racine County Farm Drainage Board, or directly into a
water body downstream of where it is maintained by the Village, or is otherwise
contained entirely upon the property.
         b.   Peak Discharge Credit. Credits shall be considered for owners who
maintain private storm water management facilities such as retention or
detention basins that exceed state and local discharge rate requirements
applicable to the site or construct oversized drainage facilities which provide
a measurable benefit the Village.
         c.   Water Quality Credit. Credits shall be considered for owners who
maintain private storm water management facilities that improve the quality of
runoff from the property to a degree that exceeds state and local water quality
requirements applicable to the site.
   B.   Adjustments. An owner may be eligible to have the number of ERUs
assigned to the owner’s property adjusted under the following conditions:
      1.   Non-Residential Property. The owner of a Non-Residential property
who believes the number of ERUs allocated to such property to be incorrect may
submit an adjustment request to the Village Clerk. The allocated ERUs may be
adjusted if the owner can provide information showing that the impervious area
measurement is incorrect.
      2.   Undeveloped Property. The owner of any property that can show the
property to be in an undeveloped natural state with no built impervious area
may request that the property status be changed to exempt if the land is
protected by plat restrictions or conservation easements in accordance with the
Uniform Conservation Easement Act, Wis. Stat. s 700.40.
      3.   No adjustment shall be considered for any natural features, such as
but not limited to, wetlands, lakes and floodplains, or water impoundments of
any kind in existence prior to passage of this chapter.
12-9. EXEMPTIONS.
   Public rights-of-way and railroad rights-of-way are considered part of the
Village’s storm water conveyance system and are therefore exempt from the
Stormwater Management charge. However, municipal, railroad and other public
facilities, including buildings, parking lots, storage yards, or other
developed land are not exempt from the Stormwater Management charge.
12-10. NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   Except for single-family structures, a property owner shall be
responsible for submitting a Stormwater Utility service application at the time
a building permit application is submitted or a site plan review is conducted,
whichever occurs sooner. The application shall be made on a form prescribed by
the Village and provided with each application for a building permit or
application for site plan review. No building permit shall be issued until such
application is submitted and approved by the Public Works Manager or his
designee.
   B.   The property owner shall be responsible for submitting record drawings
and/or site inspections to prove improvements have been constructed per the
approved plan. Any deficiencies may result in the Village completing the site
improvements at the property owner’s expense and/or revocation of Stormwater
Management credits.
   C.   The property owner shall be liable for all storm water charges
attributable to such property from the date of commencement of construction.
12-11. METHOD OF APPEAL.
   The Village elects not to be subject to the administrative review provisions
contained in Wis. Stat. ch. 68, except as set forth below, and establishes the
following as a complete and final review procedure. Appeals shall be limited to
the property classification determination, a determination of ERUs, or ERU
credits made for the calculation of total impervious area for Non-Residential
properties. The property owner shall submit supporting documentation for the
appeal as required by the Utility. There shall be no right of appeal as to the
underlying findings and necessity of this chapter or the single-family unit
charge as applied to any single-family, duplex, residential - multi-family, or
residential condominium properties.
   A.   The Stormwater Management charge may be appealed as follows:
      1.   A written appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk prior to the
Stormwater Management charge due date; or
      2.   Within 30 days of payment, a written challenge to the Stormwater
Management charge must be filed with the Village Clerk on behalf of the
property owner, specifying all bases for the challenge and the amount of the
Stormwater Management charge the property owner asserts is inappropriate.
Failure to file a challenge within 30 days of payment waives all right to later
challenge the charge.
      3.   The disputed charge shall be held in abeyance until the Public Works
Manager has made a determination pursuant to this section.
   B.   The Public Works Manager, with the assistance of the Village Engineer,
will determine whether the Stormwater Management charge is fair and reasonable,
or whether a refund or amendment is due the property owner. The Public Works
Manager will inform the property owner in writing of the decision. The Public
Works Manager may, at his or her discretion, require access to the property to
assist in the determination.
   C.   The property owner has 30 days from the decision of the Public Works
Manager to file a written appeal to the Village Board, which shall be filed
with the Village Clerk.
   D.   In the event of an appeal, the Village Board shall hold a hearing as
provided in Wis. Stat. ss. 68.11(2) and 68.11(3). The Village Board shall hold
such hearing within 30 days of the appeal request, and shall notify the
appellant of the hearing date no less than 10 days’ notice in advance of the
hearing. Within 20 days of the hearing and the filing of briefs, if any, the
Village Board shall mail or deliver to the appellant its written final
determination, setting forth, in detail, the reasons for its decision.
   E.   If the Village Board, upon the recommendation of the Public Works
Manager, determines that a refund is due the property owner, the charges will
be refunded by the Village Clerk within 60 days of the determination.
   F.   Public Service Commission Complaint. Notwithstanding the above
procedures, any user may file a complaint to the Public Service Commission
claiming that rates, rules and practices herein are unreasonable or unjustly
discriminatory, pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0821(5).
12-12. BUDGET EXCESS REVENUES/RESERVES.
   The Stormwater Utility revenues shall be accounted for in a separate storm
water special revenue fund and upon the completion of a detailed accounting of
all assets in a separate storm water enterprises fund maintained by the
Village. The utility shall prepare an annual budget, which is to include all
administration, management, operation, maintenance, debt service, capital
improvement, and other costs related to the operation of the Stormwater
Utility. The budget is subject to approval by the Village Board. The costs
shall be spread over the rate classifications as determined by the Village
Board. Any excess of revenues over expenditures in a year will be retained in a
segregated Stormwater Enterprise Fund which shall be used exclusively for
purposes consistent with this chapter for subsequent years' needs.
12-13. SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be illegal, the remaining
provisions shall remain in effect. In the event any section, subsection,
clause, phrase, or portion of this chapter is for any reason held illegal,
invalid, or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this chapter. It
is the legislative intent of the Village Board that this chapter would have
been adopted if such illegal provision had not been included or any illegal
application had not been made.
12-14. AMENDMENTS.
   No amendment to this chapter may be made until a public hearing with a Class
I notice is held before the Village Board. Amendments to the Fee Schedule may
be made without public hearing, provided, however, that each landowner in the
Village shall be notified of fee increases.
12-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   No unauthorized person may damage, tamper with, or otherwise interfere
with any structure, appurtenance, equipment, installation, sewer, conduit or
other facility which is part of the Stormwater Utility system; and no person
may violate any provision of this chapter.
   B.   Any person who is guilty of a violation shall be:
      1.   Liable to the Village and any other user who suffers expense, loss
or damage related to the violation; and
      2.   Subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 13 FORESTRY: TREES & SHRUBS
13-1.   PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the Village of Rochester to regulate and control the
planting, pruning, removal, maintenance and protection of trees and shrubs in
or upon all public and parkway areas of the Village of Rochester, to eliminate
and guard against dangerous conditions which may result in injury to persons
using the streets, sidewalks or other public areas; to promote and enhance the
beauty and general welfare of the Village; to prohibit the undesirable and
unsafe planting, removal, treatment and maintenance of trees and shrubs located
in public areas; and to guard all trees and shrubs, both public and private,
within the Village against the spread of disease, insects and pests.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
13-2.    AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   A.   Control over Public Property:
      1.   The Public Works Manager, under the control of the Village Board,
shall direct the purchase, planting, maintenance, trimming, pruning and removal
of all trees and shrubs in any public area of the Village of Rochester. No
person shall plant, maintain, prune or remove any tree or shrub on or from any
public land without permission from the Village.
      2.   The term "public land," as used in this Chapter, shall include all
land within the Village of Rochester and not privately owned or not controlled
by any other political subdivision, including but not limited to right of way.
      3.   The Village Board shall make due various species of trees and
shrubs, with consideration given to length of life, beauty, freedom from
disease, care requirements, growth habits, utility future effect of roots on
adjacent sidewalks and structures, cleanliness and other pertinent
characteristics. Only such species as are approved by the Public Works
Department shall be planted on public lands.
   B.   Control over Private Property:
      1.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any public land of the Village,
and which, in the opinion of the Village Public Works Manager, endangers the
life, health, safety or property of the public, shall be declared a public
nuisance. The owner shall be notified in writing of the existence of the
nuisance and given a reasonable time for its correction or removal. If not
corrected, action shall be taken by the Village to abate the nuisance, and the
cost assessed to the owner.
      2.   The owner of property abutting upon any street or sidewalk shall
trim branches of all trees standing along such street or sidewalk, on the
property owner's side of the street or sidewalk and excluding any trees growing
in the right of way, so that the branches shall not obstruct the passage of
light from any streetlight the adjacent street or sidewalk, and he shall also
trim all branches which overhang any street, sidewalk so that there shall be a
clear height of 15 feet above the street and a clear height of ten feet above
the sidewalk. The owner shall remove all dead, decayed or broken trees, limbs
or branches which overhang any street or sidewalk.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
13-3.    PLANTING.
   A.   Purpose. The planting, care and protection of the trees within the
Village of Rochester is desirable for the purposes of beauty, shade, comfort,
noise abatement and economic betterment.
   B.   Tree Planting Program. The Public Works Manager shall recommend to the
Board a program for tree planting, care and protection of trees and shrubs on
public areas within the Village.
   C.   Planting.
      1.   Any person proposing to plant trees or shrubs on public land first
apply for a permit (no fee). They shall have the size and species and variety
of trees and shrubs, and the manner of planting submitted to the Village for
approval before beginning such work.
      2.   There shall be a recommended distance of 30 to 50 feet between
parkway area trees depending upon the size of the tree and other factors, as
determined by the Village Public Works Manager. Parkway trees shall be planted
equal distance between the sidewalk and back of the curb or proposed back of
curb. In parkways less than three feet wide, planting will not be permitted.
Trees shall be a minimum of 35 feet from an intersection.
      3.   Evergreen trees shall not be planted in a parkway.
   D.   Unlawfully Planted Trees.
      1.   No trees, plants or shrubs shall be planted within any parkway or
public land without the authorization and approval of the Village Public Works
Manager.
      2.   The Village Public Works Manager shall notify the abutting owner, in
writing, listing the unlawfully planted trees, plants or shrubs, ordering their
removal, and establishing a reasonable time within which such removal shall be
accomplished. In the event that removal is not accomplished within the time
specified, the Village may remove such trees, plants or shrubs and assess the
costs thereof to the owner.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
13-4.   PRUNING.
   A.   Trees and shrubs standing in or upon any parkway, public land or upon
any private premises adjacent to any public right-of-way or public land shall
be kept pruned so that the lowest branches projecting over the public street
provide a clearance of not less than 15 feet. The Village Public Works Manager
may waive the provision of this section for newly planted trees if he
determines that they do not interfere with public travel, obstruct the light of
any streetlight or endanger public safety.
   B.   The necessity of the pruning may be determined by the Village Public
Works Manager.
   C.   Clearance from sidewalk to lower branches of any tree shall not be less
than ten feet. No tree shall be permitted to grow in such a manner as to
obstruct the proper diffusion of light from any public lamp. All trees and
shrubs shall be pruned to prevent their branches from encroaching on any public
sidewalk.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
13-5.   REMOVAL.
   A.   No person shall cut down or in any manner destroy or injure any living
shade tree upon any public street, parkway, highway or other public land in the
Village of Rochester.
   B.   Hazardous, Obstructive and Infected Trees. Any tree or part thereof,
whether alive or dead, which the Village Public Works Manager shall find to be
infected with Dutch Elm Disease, Emerald Ash Borer or found to be hazardous so
as to endanger the public or other trees growing within the Village of
Rochester, or to be injurious to sidewalks or other public improvements, shall
be removed.
   C.   Public utilities, under the supervision and direction of the Village
Public Works Manager, are authorized to prune trees upon and overhanging the
streets, avenues, highways, sidewalks and other public lands in the Village of
Rochester, to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with
wires and cables. Such utilities are authorized to cut roots of trees and
shrubs under the streets, avenues, highways, sidewalks and other public lands
in the Village of Rochester, in order to construct, maintain and operate their
facilities in and about the Village.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
13-6.   PUBLIC NUISANCES; INFECTED TREES.
   A.   The Village Board having determined that the health of the trees within
the Village of Rochester may be threatened by fatal diseases, infections or
infestations hereby declares the following to be public nuisances:
      1.   Any living or standing tree or part thereof infected or infested
with an infectious agent or fungus, or which harbors any bark beetle or wood
boring beetle.
      2.   Any dead tree or part thereof, including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood or other material from which an infectious agent or fungus, or bark
beetle or wood boring beetle, have not been removed.
   B.   No person shall permit any public nuisance as defined in subsection A
to remain on any premises owned or controlled by him within the Village of
Rochester.
   C.   Assessment of Costs.
      1.   The entire cost of abating any public nuisance as defined in
subsection A. or of spraying any tree or part thereof which is located in or
upon any part of public grounds shall be borne by the Village, and if on
private grounds by the owner thereof pursuant to sections
8-8 and
8-9 of this Code.
      2.   In the event that the Village elects to undertake an area-wide
spraying project, the Village Board shall keep strict account of the costs of
work done under this section and shall report to the Village Clerk all work
done for which assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the
description of the land, lots, parts or lots or parcels of land and the amounts
chargeable to each.
   D.   Transporting of Diseased or Infested Trees and Wood Prohibited. No
person shall transport within the Village of Rochester any diseased or infested
trees, wood or material without first securing the written permission of the
Village Board.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 7-13-2021)
CHAPTER 17 FINANCE AND TAXATION
17-1. PREPARATION OF TAX ROLL AND TAX BILLS; COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   The Clerk, in cooperation with the Village Treasurer, shall prepare the tax
roll in accordance with Wis. Stat. s. 70.65, and, in cooperation with the
County Treasurer and Village Treasurer, shall prepare and mail real and
personal property tax bills and collect taxes in conformance with Wis. Stat.
ch. 74.
17-2. FISCAL YEAR.
   The calendar year shall be the fiscal year.
17-3. BUDGET.
   The Village will formulate a budget annually pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 65.90
and as follows:
   A.   Departmental Estimates. Annually, when requested by the Finance
Committee, each officer, department and committee shall file with the Treasurer
an itemized statement of disbursements made to carry out the powers and duties
of such officer, department or committee during the preceding fiscal year; a
detailed statement of the receipts and disbursements on account of any special
fund under the supervision of such officer, department or committee during such
year and of the conditions and management of such fund; and detailed estimates
of the same matters for the current and ensuing fiscal years. Such statements,
which shall be designated as "Departmental Estimates," shall be presented in
the form prescribed by the Treasurer, such form to be as nearly uniform as
possible for the main division of all departments.
   B.   Proposed Budget.
      1.   Each year, the Treasurer, at the direction of the Finance Committee,
shall prepare a proposed budget, and the Finance Committee shall submit to the
Board said proposed budget presenting a financial plan for conducting the
affairs of the Village for the ensuing fiscal year.
      2.   Information Required. The budget shall include the following
information:
         a.   The expense of conducting each department and activity of the
Village for the ensuing fiscal year, and corresponding items for the current
year and last preceding fiscal year, with reasons for any increase or decrease
recommended as compared with appropriations for the current year.
         b.   An itemization of all anticipated income of the Village from
sources other than general property taxes and bonds issued, with a statement
comparing the amounts received by the Village from each of the same or similar
sources for the last preceding and current fiscal year.
         c.   An itemization of the amount of money to be raised from general
property taxes which, with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet
the proposed expenditures.
         d.   Such other information as may be required by the Board and by
state law.
      3.   Copies required. The Village shall provide a reasonable number of
copies of the budget for distribution to citizens.
   C.   Hearing. The Board shall hold a public hearing on the budget as
required by law.
   D.   Action by Board. Following the public hearing, the proposed budget may
be changed or amended and shall take the same course in the Board as
ordinances.
17-4. CHANGES IN BUDGET.
   The amount of the tax to be levied or certified and the amounts of the
various appropriations, and the purposes thereof, shall not be changed after
approval of the budget except by a two- thirds vote of the entire membership of
the Village Board. Notice of such change shall be given by publication within
10 days thereafter in the official Village newspaper. See Wis. Stat. s. 65.90.
17-5. VILLAGE FUNDS TO BE SPENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROPRIATIONS.
   No money shall be drawn from the treasury of the Village, nor shall any
obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred, except in pursuance of the
annual appropriation in the adopted budget or when changed as authorized by s.
17-4 of this chapter. At the close of each fiscal year, any unencumbered
balance of an appropriation shall be subject to reappropriation; but
appropriations may be made by the Board, to be paid out of the income of the
current year, in furtherance of improvements or other objects or works which
will not be completed within such year, and any such appropriation shall
continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished
or abandoned.
17-6. CLAIMS PROCEDURE.
   A.   Village Board to audit accounts. Except as provided in subsection C, no
account or demand against the Village shall be paid until it has been audited
and approved pursuant to the provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 61.51(1).
   B.   Claims to be verified. All accounts, demands or claims against the
Village shall be verified by the claimant or the proper official.
   C.   Payment of regular wages, salaries and certain recurring charges.
      1.   Payment of regular wages, salaries and meeting pay shall be paid by
payroll, verified by the proper Village official, and filed in time for payment
on the regular pay day, and such payments made under this provision are valid.
      2.   Certain recurring charges, such as utility and insurance bills, may
be allowed by the proper official and paid by the Treasurer prior to audit by
the Village Board, but shall be submitted to the Village Board for audit after
payment.
   D.   Wis. Stat. s. 893.80 shall apply.
17-7. LETTING OF PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS.
   Wisconsin Statute s. 62.15 shall apply to Village contracts. The authority
vested in the Board of Public Works by Wis. Stat. s. 62.15 shall be exercised
by the Village Board or as delegated by the Village Board.
17-8. DUPLICATE TREASURER'S BOND.
   A.   Eliminated. The Village elects not to give the bond on the Treasurer
provided for by Wis. Stat. s. 70.67(1).
   B.   Village liable for default of Treasurer. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
70.67(2), the Village shall pay, if the Treasurer fails to do so, all state and
county taxes required by law to be paid by such Treasurer to the County
Treasurer.
17-9. TEMPORARY INVESTMENT OF VILLAGE FUNDS.
   The Treasurer may invest any Village funds not immediately needed upon the
advice of the Finance Committee and direction of the Board pursuant to Wis.
Stat. s. 66.0603(1m).
17-10. SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES.
   Whenever the Village Board determines that any public work or municipal work
or improvement is to be financed in whole or in part by special assessments,
the Board shall determine the method of special assessment to be used, as set
forth herein.
   A.   The Board may determine to follow the special assessment procedures set
forth in the Subchapter VII of Chapter 26 of the Wisconsin Statutes; or
   B.   The Board may determine to follow the Special Assessment by Local
Ordinance procedure set forth in s.
17-11.
   C.   Any special assessment levied under this chapter shall be a lien
against the property assessed from the date of the final resolution of the
Village Board determining the amount of such levy.
17-11. SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BY LOCAL ORDINANCE.
   A.   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0701,
which specifies that the Village may enact an ordinance which provides that the
cost of installing or constructing any public work or improvement shall be
charged in whole or in part to the property benefited, and make an assessment
against the property benefited in the manner that the Village Board determines.
   B.   Levy of Assessments.
      1.   Special assessments for the installation or construction of any
public work or municipal work or improvement may be levied and collected
pursuant to Wisconsin Statutes or pursuant to this section.
      2.   Except as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0721, the Village may, by
resolution, levy and collect special assessments upon property in a limited and
determinable area for special benefits conferred upon the property by any
public work or improvement; and may provide for the payment of all or any part
of the cost of the work or improvement out of the proceeds of the special
assessments, as an exercise of the Village's police power. A "public work," as
used herein, includes the construction or installation of an improvement that
the Village requires a property owner or developer to perform as a condition of
approval of a development or pursuant to a developer's agreement, which will be
dedicated to the public, and which benefits property not owned by the developer
or property owner. The assessment shall be calculated on a reasonable basis as
determined by the Village Board.
      3.   The cost of any work or improvement to be paid in whole or in part
by special assessment on property under this section may include the direct and
indirect cost, the cost of any architectural or engineering services, and any
other item of direct or indirect cost that may reasonably be attributed to the
proposed work or improvement. The amount to be assessed against all property
for the proposed work or improvement shall be apportioned among the individual
parcels in the manner designated by the Village Board.
      4.   A parcel of land against which a special assessment has been levied
for the sanitary sewer or water main laid in one of the streets that the parcel
abuts is entitled to a deduction or exemption that the Board determines to be
reasonable and just under the circumstances of each case, when a special
assessment is levied for the sanitary sewer or water main laid in the other
street that the corner lot abuts. The Board may allow a similar deduction or
exemption from special assessments levied for any other public improvement.
   C.   Procedure. Before the exercise of any powers conferred by this section,
the Village Board shall declare by preliminary resolution its intention to
exercise the powers for a stated municipal purpose. The resolution shall
describe generally the contemplated purpose, the limits of the proposed
assessment district, the number of installments in which the special
assessments may be paid, whether the assessment may be deferred under the terms
and conditions set forth by the Village Board, and direct the proper municipal
officer or employee to make or review and approve a report on the proposal. The
resolution may limit the proportion of the cost to be assessed.
      1.   The report shall consist of:
         a.   Preliminary or final plans and specifications.
         b.   An estimate of the entire cost of the proposed work or
improvement.
         c.   A statement that the property against which the assessments are
proposed is benefited.
         d.   A schedule of the proposed assessments.
      2.   A copy of the report, when completed, shall be filed with the
Village Clerk for public inspection.
      3.   Upon the completion and filing of the report, the Village Clerk
shall prepare a notice stating the nature of the proposed work or improvement,
the general boundary lines of the proposed assessment district, including, in
the discretion of the Village Board, a small map, the place and time at which
the report may be inspected, and the place and time at which all interested
persons, or their agents or attorneys, may appear before the Village Board and
be heard concerning the matters contained in the preliminary resolution and the
report. The notice shall be published as a Class 1 notice, under Wis. Stat. ch.
985, and a copy of the notice shall be mailed, at least 10 days before the
hearing, to every interested person whose post-office address is known, or can
be ascertained with reasonable diligence. The hearing shall commence not less
than ten nor more than 40 days after publication.
      4.   The notice and hearing requirements under Subsection C.3 do not
apply if they are waived, in writing, by all the owners of property affected by
the special assessment.
      5.   After the hearing upon any proposed work or improvement, the Village
Board may approve, disapprove or modify the report, or it may re-refer the
report to the designated officer or employee with directions to change the
plans and specifications or to accomplish a fair and equitable assessment.
      6.   When the Village Board is satisfied with the report, it shall adopt
a resolution directing that the special assessment be levied in accordance with
the report as finally approved and shall specify the terms of the assessment
within the final resolution. In no case may the special assessment levied
exceed the amount which the Village is contractually obligated to pay to the
developer who incurred the expense.
      7.   The Village Clerk shall publish the final resolution as a Class 1
notice, under Ch. 985, in the assessment district and a copy of the resolution
shall be mailed to every interested person whose post-office address is known,
or can be ascertained with reasonable diligence.
      8.   When the final resolution is published, all awards, compensations
and assessments arising from the resolution are then authorized and made,
subject to the right of appeal under Wis. Stat. s. 66.0703(12), using the
procedures set forth therein.
   D.   Amendment of Assessment.
      1.   If the actual cost of any project, upon completion or after the
receipt of bids, is found to vary materially from the estimates, if any
assessment is void or invalid, or if the Village Board decides to reconsider
and reopen any assessment, it may, after giving notice as provided herein and
after a public hearing, amend, cancel or confirm the prior assessment. A notice
of the resolution amending, canceling or confirming the prior assessment shall
be given by the Clerk as provided in Subsection C.3.
      2.   If the cost of the project is less than the special assessments
levied, the Village Board, without notice or hearing, shall reduce each special
assessment proportionately.
   E.   Every special assessment levied under this section is a lien on the
property against which it is levied on behalf of the Village. The Village Board
shall provide for the collection of the assessments, may provide refunds of
costs to developers or property owners, may establish penalties for payment
after the due date, and may provide that all assessments or installments that
are not paid by the date specified shall be extended upon the tax roll as a
delinquent tax against the property and all proceedings in relation to the
collection, return and sale of property for delinquent real estate taxes apply
to the special assessment, except as otherwise provided by statute. The Village
Board may withhold approval of any development of an assessed property for
failure to pay a special assessment.
   F.   If a special assessment levied under this section is held invalid
because this section is found to be unconstitutional, the Village Board may
reassess the special assessment under any applicable law and/or may withhold
approval of any development of a benefited property in equity, as the failure
to contribute to the cost of improvements constitutes unjust enrichment.
17-12. FEES AND COSTS.
   A.   Permit Fees. All persons and entities performing work which by this
Code requires the issuance of a permit shall pay a permit application fee for
such permit to the Village Clerk to defray the cost of administration,
investigation, advertising and processing of permits. The fee for permit
applications shall be nonrefundable, unless specifically set forth in the
applicable section of the Code, and shall be set by the Village Board from time
to time. No permit shall be issued if the applicant is in arrears for any
amount due and owing to the Village.
   B.   License Fees. All persons and entities performing work for which this
Code requires the issuance of a license shall pay a license application fee for
such license to the Village Clerk to defray the cost of administration,
investigation, advertising and processing of licenses. The fee for license
applications shall be nonrefundable, unless specifically set forth in the
applicable section of the Code, and shall be set by the Village Board from time
to time. No license shall be issued if the applicant is in arrears for any
amount due and owing to the Village.
   C.   Review/Other Costs and Fees.
      1.   Any person or applicant presenting a proposal, petition or project,
whether or not a permit or license is required, will be charged costs and fees
equivalent to the cost to the Village for reviews and/or other work performed
by the consulting Village Engineer, Village Attorney, Zoning Administrator, and
any other consultants engaged by the Village.
      2.   Such persons or applicants shall be required to pay fees equivalent
to the cost to the Village for any work associated with the drafting of
agreements or other documents associated with any project, proposal, petition,
permit, license, review or approval required, including but not limited to
engineering, design and/or inspection fees for public improvements that are
associated with the review.
      3.   The Village may require a person or applicant to sign an agreement
for payment, and to make a deposit toward such costs and fees. The deposit
shall be in an amount reasonably estimated by the Village Clerk to cover the
anticipated costs and fees, however, the person or applicant shall be liable
for the full amount of the Village’s costs and fees regardless of the amount of
the deposit, unless otherwise prohibited by law. If the deposited amount falls
below the amount reasonably estimated to complete the work, the Clerk may
require an additional deposit. Any portion of the deposit that is not used by
the Village for costs and fees shall be returned to the applicant.
      4.   No approvals shall be granted if the applicant is in arrears for any
amount due and owing to the Village.
   D.   Special Charge for Village Professionals Contract Fees.
      1.   Whenever the offices of the Village Attorney, Village Engineer or
any other of the Village’s contract professional staff are contacted for
current services regarding a specific person’s property, development or other
special matter concerning the Village of Rochester by:
         a.   The Village President, Village Trustee, Village Clerk, Village
Treasurer, or their agent(s); or
         b.   A property owner or any person or entity or a respective
representative, if said contact results in a charge to the Village for that
professional’s time and services and said service is not a service provided to
the Village as a whole, then the Village Treasurer shall be authorized to
charge said person or entity for the current service provided and/or pursuant
to the provision of Wis. Stat. s. 66.0627 to impose a special charge for that
current service to the benefited property owner for the fees incurred by the
Village.
      2.   This section shall be enforced on the basis of the policy as
established by the Village upon a recommendation of the Finance Committee, by
resolution enacted by the Village Board and revised from time to time.
      3.   The Village Treasurer is authorized to invoice each person or entity
for special charges, allowing a period of time not more than 30 days to pay for
provided current services. The invoice shall include an itemized statement of
the professional service fees provided. If unpaid, ongoing reviews may be
halted until payment is made.
      4.   The Village Treasurer shall give each property owner invoiced for
current services notice that a hearing may be requested before the Finance
Committee regarding the charges against the property. If a hearing is timely
requested in writing within 20 calendar days of the mailing of the invoice for
current services, the matter shall be heard in accordance with this section
17-12 on the issue of the cost of professional fees incurred to benefit a
specific land owner.
      5.   If any amount remains unpaid after the 30 day allowed for payment
where no hearing has been timely requested, the Village Treasurer shall
automatically charge that delinquent amount, plus any applicable penalty and/or
interest against the current or next tax roll as a delinquent tax against the
property pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0627. In the event the invoice rendered
to a property owner or the time allowing for payment precludes placement on the
current year’s tax roll, any such delinquent charge shall be extended to the
following year’s tax roll.
      6.   Upon receipt of a timely request for a hearing on the invoice for
special charges, the Finance Committee shall hold a hearing regarding the
request at its next regular meeting or, at its discretion, at a special
meeting. Such hearing shall be preceded by posted public notice and written
notice to the property owner.
      7.   When a timely hearing has been requested, no current charges for
special services shall be placed on the tax roll until a hearing has been held
and a decision has been rendered and reduced to writing. A copy shall be sent
via first class mail, postage prepaid, to the property owner. Only that part of
the charges for special services approved by the Finance Committee may be
placed on the tax roll after the property owner has been given 30 days to pay
from the date of the Finance Committee decision.
      8.   The Village, in addition to or instead of the above, may follow any
other legal means to collect the amounts due. No approvals may be granted if
the applicant is in arrears in any amount owed to the Village.
   E.   Fee schedules and fees shall be approved and periodically updated by
the Village Board by Resolution.
   F.   The Village may, in its discretion, proceed under any or all of the
provisions of this Section. The Village may waive any of the provisions of this
Section for good cause shown.
   G.   Administrative Fees and Costs.
      1.   Miscellaneous Services. Any person presenting a request to the
Village that requires services over and above those customarily provided to
Village residents, whether or not a permit or license is required, will be
charged costs and fees equivalent to the cost to the Village for reviews and/or
other work performed by Village staff, if those services are approved by the
Village Clerk.
      2.   Special Assessment Letters. The Village Treasurer or his or her
designee may prepare a Special Assessment Letter to be used to provide
information requested for transfers of real property such as the amount of
outstanding special assessments, deferred assessments, changes in assessments,
amount of taxes, outstanding sewer and/or water bills, current sewer and/or
water bills, contemplated improvements, outstanding citations for building code
violations, and similar information. Any such information sought shall be
provided to the person requesting it on the form that person provides. Requests
for Special Assessment Letters shall be made to the Village Treasurer a minimum
of ten business days in advance. There shall be a fee as designated in the
Village Fee Schedule for the research required for, and completion of, the
Letter.
   H.   Interest. The Village charges for certain of its services and passes
charges it incurs for services it obtains from its engineer, attorneys and
others to the beneficiary thereof in certain circumstances, but the invoices
for those charges are not always paid on a timely basis. When not paid on time,
additional administrative costs are incurred. It is in the best interest of the
Village to charge interest for bills that are at least 30 days in arrears.
Interest at the rate determined by the Village Board and set forth in the Fee
Schedule shall be charged on invoices at least 30 days in arrears, unless
otherwise prevented by law, or another interest rate has been set by law or
ordinance.
17-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or any regulation,
rule or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code.
CHAPTER 20 HOUSING CODE
20-1. UNSAFE AND UNSANITARY BUILDINGS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector finds any building or part thereof within
the Village to be in his or her judgment so old, dilapidated or so out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use, and so that it would be unreasonable to repair
the same, the Building Inspector shall order the owner to raze and remove such
building or part thereof, or if it can be made safe by repairs, to repair and
make safe and sanitary or to raze and remove at the owner's option. Such order
and proceedings shall be as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0413.
20-2. APPLICABILITY OF STANDARDS.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter apply to all structures in the Village
containing one or more rental dwelling units and to all dwelling units that are
either rented for human habitation or permitted by the owner thereof to be
occupied for human habitation by the owner or a person other than the owner.
   B.   This Chapter establishes minimum standards for the human habitation or
occupancy of premises in the Village, and does not replace or modify the
standards otherwise established for the construction, replacement, or repair of
buildings contained in Chapter 11, the Building Code, except such as are in
conflict with the provisions of this Chapter.
20-3. DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and enforcement
of this Chapter.
   “Owner” means any person or entity who alone, or jointly, or severally with
others, owns or has charge, care or control of any dwelling unit within the
Village as owner, lessee, employee or agent of the owner, or as trustee or
guardian of the estate or person of the title holder and all such other persons
are bound to comply with the provisions of this Chapter to the same extent as
the owner.
   “Building Inspector” means the official of the Village appointed and
designated as the Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector and/or Electrical
Inspector, as applicable.
   “Health Officer” means the official of the Village appointed and designated
as the Health Officer.
   “Habitable Room” means every room in any building in which persons sleep,
eat or carry on their usual domestic or social vocations or avocations, but
does not include private laundries, bathrooms, toilet rooms, pantries,
storerooms, corridors, rooms for mechanical equipment for service in the
building or other similar spaces not used by persons frequently or during
extended periods.
   “Rented Premises” means all premises which are actually rented under verbal
or written lease to one or more tenants, and also to the use of premises by one
or more persons other than the owner or owners thereof, who may be permitted by
such owner to occupy such premises rent free or without consideration being
paid to the owner or owners for such use.
   “Approved” means approved by or in accordance with regulations under this
Chapter, enforced and interpreted by the Building Inspector or others as
indicated elsewhere in this Chapter.
   “Bedroom” means a habitable room within the dwelling unit that is used or
intended to be used primarily for the purpose of sleeping.
   “Dwelling Unit” means a suite of habitable rooms, occupied by or intended to
be occupied by not more than one family as a residence and forming a single
habitable unit with cooking, living, sanitary and sleeping facilities.
   “Basement” means a story having part but not more than one-half of its floor
to clear ceiling height below the average finished ground grade adjoining the
building walls. When a basement is used for storage garages for use of
occupants of the building or facilities common for the operation of the rest of
the building other-than facilities for dwelling or lodging, it shall not be
counted as a story.
   “Cellar” means a story having more than one-half of the floor to clear
ceiling height below the average finished ground grade at the building walls. A
cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurement.
   “Family” means the body of persons who live together in one dwelling unit as
a single housekeeping entity.
20-4. MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHTING, VENTILATION AND HEATING.
   No person shall occupy as owner or occupant, or let to another for
occupancy, any dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein
which does not .comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Every habitable room, kitchen, bathroom and toilet room shall have a
window or windows with a total glass area equal to at least eight per cent of
its floor area unless in the opinion of the Building Inspector the structure of
the building precludes the use of windows, in which case other means of
lighting and ventilation approved by the Building Inspector may be used. Such
windows shall open onto a street, alley, yard, court or easement open to the
sky. Such window or windows shall be so constructed that at least one-half may
be fully opened and so that the sash can be opened and securely closed.
Approved mechanical ventilation may be substituted.
   B.   Every public hall and public stairway of every dwelling containing four
or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted by means of properly located
electric light fixtures at all times, provided that such electrical lighting
may be omitted from sunrise to sunset where there are windows or skylights
opening directly to the outside and where the total window or skylight area is
at least 1/10 of the combined horizontal area of such hall and stairway and if
such windows or skylights provide adequate natural light to all parts of each
such public pathway. Every public hall and stairway in dwellings containing two
or three dwelling units shall be supplied with convenient light switches
controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on when needed,
instead of full-time lighting. Adequate bulbs shall be provided in every public
hall and on every public stairway so that a minimum of two foot-candles of
light is delivered to all parts in the public hall or stairway.
   C.   Every kitchen and habitable room within every dwelling and/or dwelling
unit shall contain at least two separate wall type electric convenience outlets
or one such convenient outlet and one supplied ceiling or wall type electric
light fixture. Every toilet room, bathroom, furnace room, laundry room and
public hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling type or wall type
electric light fixture. Every outlet and fixture shall be installed and
maintained in good working condition and shall be connected with the source of
electric power in conformance with Ch. 11 of this Municipal Code These may be
serviced by approved wiring.
   D.   Each dwelling unit shall have supplied heating facilities and such
facilities shall be properly installed, be maintained in reasonably good
working condition and be capable of adequately heating all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and toilet rooms contained therein where intended for use by the
occupants thereof, to a temperature of at least 68 degrees F., at a distance of
three feet above floor level when the outdoor temperature is at ten degrees
below zero degrees F. Every supplied central heating system shall comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   The central heating unit shall be in reasonably good operating
condition.
      2.   Every heat duct, steam pipe and hot water pipe shall be free of
leaks and shall function so that an adequate amount of heat is delivered where
intended.
20-5. RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS RELATED TO THE MAINTENANCE OF DWELLINGS AND
DWELLING UNITS.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to or offer to let to
another for occupancy any dwelling unit or portion thereof for the purpose of
living therein which does not comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Every foundation, exterior wall and roof shall be reasonably weather-
tight and rodent-proof and shall be kept in a good state of maintenance and
repair.
   B.   Every interior partition wall, floor and ceiling shall be capable of
affording privacy, kept in a reasonably good state of repair and maintained so
as to permit them to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   C.   All rain water shall be so drained and conveyed from every roof so as
not to cause dampness in the walls, ceiling or floors of any habitable room,
bathroom or toilet room.
   D.   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather-tight and rodent-proof and shall be kept in reasonably good working
condition and a reasonably good state of maintenance and repair.
   E.   All exterior surfaces shall be protected from the elements and against
decay and deterioration by paint or by other approved protective coating
applied in workmanlike fashion.
   F.   Every inside and outside stairway, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be reasonably safe to use and capable of
supporting such a load as normal use may cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and reasonably good state of maintenance and repair.
   G.   Every supplied plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be
properly installed and maintained in good, sanitary working condition.
   H.   Every chimney and every supplied smoke pipe shall be adequately
supported, reasonably clean and maintained in a reasonably good state of
repair.
   I.   Every toilet room floor surface and bathroom floor surface shall be
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such
floors to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   J.   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this Code shall be so constructed or installed that it shall
function properly and shall be maintained in reasonably good working condition.
   K.   No owner or operator shall cause any service facility, equipment or
utility which is required to be supplied under the provisions of this Chapter
to be removed from, shut off from or disconnected from any occupied dwelling or
dwelling unit let or occupied by him except for such temporary interruptions as
may be necessary while actual repairs, replacement or alterations are in the
process of being made.
   L.   Every owner of a building containing one or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for the extermination of rodents or pests on the premises.
Wherever infestation exists in any of the dwellings or in the shared or public
parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination
thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   M.   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a reasonably clean, sanitary condition all
communal, shared or public areas of dwellings or premises thereof which are
used or shared by the occupants of two or more dwelling units.
   N.   No owner shall occupy, rent to any other person for occupancy or allow
any other person to occupy any vacant dwelling unit unless it is reasonably
clean, sanitary and complies with all provisions of this Chapter and all rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
20-6. MINIMUM SPACE USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein which does not comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangement that access to a bathroom or toilet room
intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by
going through another sleeping room; nor shall such room arrangements exist
that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
sleeping room or bathroom or a toilet room.
   B.   In every dwelling unit at least one room occupied for sleeping purposes
by one or more occupants shall contain at least 100 square feet of floor space.
   C.   Every occupant of every dwelling unit shall have unrestricted access to
a toilet and to a kitchen sink or lavatory basin located within the dwelling
unit.
   D.   No basement or cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or
dwelling unit unless:
      1.   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness.
      2.   The total window area in each room is equal to at least the minimum
window area sizes as required in s.
20-4.A.
      3.   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under s.
20-4.A., except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the Building Inspector. 1
 
Notes
1 1 Amended 10-13-2014, Ordinance #2014-5
20-7. RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS RELATING TO THE MAINTENANCE OF NON-DWELLING
STRUCTURES, FENCES AND PREMISES.
   No owner shall permit any non-dwelling structure or fence to exist on any
premises or maintain any premises which does not comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   All exterior surfaces of non-dwelling structures shall be properly
protected from the elements and against decay and decomposition by paint or
other approved protective coating applied in a workmanlike manner.
   B.   Every fence shall be kept in a good state of maintenance and repair or
shall be removed.
   C.   Every lot shall be graded and maintained so that all water is diverted
away from buildings and drained from the lot and so as to prevent standing
water and soil saturation detrimental to structures and lot use; provided
however that the water shall not be drained onto adjacent lots except as
consented to by the owners thereof or as part of an approved grading plan.
   D.   All open spaces or areas containing a dwelling unit for which an
occupancy permit has been issued shall be put into a lawn (except for such
areas set aside for trees, shrubbery and gardens) within two years after an
occupancy permit has been issued.
   E.   Every premises and/or lawn thereon shall be maintained in a presentable
and reasonably well kept condition.
   F.   No persons shall store firewood in the front yard, or side yard area
that adjoins a public street.
20-8. INSPECTION BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector or his or her designated representative is authorized
to, and upon receipt of a written complaint shall, make exterior inspections to
determine whether the buildings, structures and premises located within the
Village conform to the requirements of this Chapter. For the purpose of making
exterior inspections, the Building Inspector is authorized to enter, examine
and survey at a reasonable time the exterior portions of all buildings,
structures or premises. Every owner or occupant shall give the Building
Inspector free access to any said premises. The Building Inspector or his or
her delegated representative, having probable cause to believe a violation of
this Chapter exists, shall have the authority to enter any of such premises
after written notice has been given to the owner, occupant or his or her agent.
If, after such notice is given, access is denied to the Building Inspector, the
Inspector may apply to the Circuit Court for a special inspection warrant.
20-9. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   A.   The Building Inspector is hereby made responsible for the enforcement
of this Chapter. All inspections, enforcement, orders or matters relating to
violations of this Chapter shall be under his or her direction and supervision.
   B.   The Building Inspector shall be supplied with official identification
and upon request shall exhibit such identification when entering any premises
subject to this Chapter. The Inspector shall conduct himself or herself to
avoid intentional embarrassment or inconvenience to occupants, and in a safe
manner.
20-10. NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this Chapter,
notice of such alleged violation shall be given to the person or persons
responsible therefore, which shall:
   A.   Be in writing;
   B.   Indicate the nature of the violation(s);
   C.   Indicate the time for the correction of the violation in accordance
with subsection E hereof.
   D.   Be served upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant or operator, as
the case may require. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner, or his or her agent, or occupant, or operator, if a copy thereof
is:
      1.   Served upon him or her personally, or
      2.   Sent by registered or certified mail to his or her last known
address, or
      3.   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the building or structure
affected by notice.
   E.   State a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 30 days, to correct or
abate the violation;
   F.   Advise the person served of the right to request a hearing before the
Village Board and that the notice shall become an order of the Building
Inspector five days after service unless such a hearing is requested.
20-11. PLACARD ON BUILDING.
   A.   The Building Inspector shall cause to be placed upon a building,
structure or premises a placard that states the determination of the Building
Inspector as to the building, structure, or premises being unfit for use or
occupancy whenever all of the following occur:
      1.   Any building, structure or premises does not substantially comply
with the requirements of this Chapter; and
      2.   The Building Inspector has given notice of the violations involved
as provided for in Section
20-10; and
      3.   The owner, occupant or operator has failed to correct the violations
set forth in said notice;
      4.   The Building Inspector has further determined that the building,
structure, or premises are so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsafe, or vermin-
infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public, and is therefore unfit for use or occupancy.
   B.   The form of the placard placed under the provisions of this Section
shall be determined by the Building Inspector but shall also substantially
state the specific violations of this Chapter.
   C.   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any building,
structure or premises that has been placed by the Building Inspector until
removal of such placard is authorized by the Building Inspector.
   D.   Any building, structure or premises that has been determined by the
Building Inspector as being so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsafe or vermin-
infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health and safety of the
occupants, and said building, structure or premises has been placarded by the
Building Inspector, shall be vacated within such reasonable time as is
determined and ordered by the Building Inspector.
   E.   No building, structure, or premises that has been determined by the
Building Inspector as unfit for use or occupancy and placarded as provided
herein shall again be used or occupied until written approval is secured from,
and such placard is removed by, the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector
shall grant such approval and remove such placard in the event that the
violations have been corrected and the Building Inspector determines that the
building, structure or premises are now fit for use or occupancy.
20-12. NONCOMPLIANCE - REMEDY OF DEFECTS.
   A.   The owner, occupant or operator of any building, structure or premises
shall have the time as specified in the notice under Section
20-10 to remedy the violations specified in such notice.
   B.   In the event the Building Inspector determines in his or her discretion
that the owner, occupant or operator is within said time making a good faith
effort to correct the violations, the Inspector may extend the time for
compliance.
   C.   If the owner, occupant or operator of building, structure or premises
fails or refuses, after notice and order of the Building Inspector, to remedy
the violations specified in such notice, then the Building Inspector may cause
such work to be done and certify the cost thereof to the Village Clerk, who
shall extend such cost against the property as a special charge upon the tax
roll of the Village.
20-13. TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF NONCOMPLYING BUILDING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building, structure or premises
who has received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been
served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of the
noncomplying building to another until the provisions of the compliance order
or notice of violation have been complied with, or until such owner shall first
furnish to the Building Inspector a signed and notarized statement from the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such
compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility
without condition for making the corrections or repairs required by such
compliance order or notice of violation.
20-50. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or any regulation,
rule or order made hereunder shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Each violation and each day a violation
continues or occurs constitutes a separate offense. This section shall not
preclude the Village from maintaining any appropriate action to prevent or
remove a violation of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 21 MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
21-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the words below shall have the meanings
indicated.
   “Licensee” means any person licensed to operate and maintain a manufactured
home community under this Chapter.
   “Licensing authority” means the Village of Rochester, Racine County,
Wisconsin, wherein a manufactured home community is located.
   “Community” means manufactured home community.
   “Person” means any natural individual or any entity.
   “Manufactured Home” is defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(2) as a structure
that is designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation and that is certified by the federal department of housing and urban
development as complying with the standards established under 42 USC 5401 to
5425, and includes any additions, attachments, annexes, foundations and
appurtenances. “Manufactured home” includes mobile homes as defined in this
chapter, but does not include any self- propelled recreational vehicles.
   “Mobile Home” is defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(10) as a vehicle
manufactured or assembled before June 15, 1976, designed to be towed as a
single unit or in sections upon a highway by a motor vehicle and equipped and
used, or intended to be used, primarily for human habitation, with walls of
rigid non- collapsible construction, which has an overall length in excess of
45 feet. “Mobile home” includes the mobile home structure, its plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems, and all other equipment
carrying a manufacturer’s warranty, and also includes any additions,
attachments, annexes, foundations and appurtenances.
   “Unit” means a manufactured home unit.
   “Manufactured Home Community” is defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(5m) and
means any plot or plots of ground upon which three or more units, occupied for
dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of whether or not a
charge is made for such accommodation. “Manufactured home community” does not
include a farm where the occupants of the manufactured homes are the father,
mother, daughter, brother or sister of the farm owner or operator or where the
occupants of the manufactured homes work on the farm.
   “Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicle that is designed to be towed upon a
highway by a motor vehicle that is equipped and used, or intended to be used,
primarily for temporary or recreational human habitation, that has walls of
rigid construction, and that does not exceed 45 feet in length.
   “Site” means a plot of ground within a manufactured home community designed
for the accommodation of one manufactured home unit.
21-2. LOCATION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES OUTSIDE OF MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES.
   No manufactured home shall be kept and used for dwelling purposes within the
Village outside of a manufactured home community except as set forth in section
35-100.D.2. of this Municipal Code. The owner of a manufactured home that is
not subject to real property taxes as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 70.043(1)
shall pay the monthly Village permit fee adopted in this Chapter directly to
the Village Treasurer as set forth in s.
21-4.
21-3. LICENSE REQUIRED; REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a
manufactured home community in the Village unless the person obtains a
manufactured home community license from the Village.
   B.   Any license granted under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
subject to revocation or suspension for cause by the Village Board upon
complaint filed with the Village Clerk signed by any law enforcement officer,
health officer or building inspector after a public hearing upon the complaint,
provided that the holder of the license shall be given 10 days’ notice in
writing of the hearing, and shall be entitled to appear and be heard as to why
the license should not be revoked or suspended. Any holder of a license which
is revoked or suspended by the Village Board may, within 20 days of the date of
the revocation or suspension, appeal therefrom to the Racine County Circuit
Court by filing a written notice of appeal with the Village Clerk, together
with a bond executed to the Village in the sum of $500.00 with two sureties or
a bonding company approved by the Clerk, conditioned for the faithful
prosecution of such appeal and the payment of costs adjudged against the
license holder.
21-4. LICENSE AND MONTHLY MANUFACTURED HOME FEE.
   A.   Each licensee shall pay an annual fee to the Village Clerk in advance
for each calendar year or fraction thereof in an amount set by the Village
Board and reflected in the Fee Schedule for each 50 sites or fraction thereof
within each manufactured home community within the Village limits, except where
the community is in more than one municipality, the fee shall be proportionate
to the number of sites located in the Village relative to the entire number of
sites in the manufactured home community.
   B.   Each transferee of a manufactured home community license shall pay a
fee in an amount set by the Village Board and reflected in the Fee Schedule in
advance to the Village Clerk for the transfer of any license.
   C.   In addition to the license fee provided in subsections A and B, the
Village shall collect a monthly Village permit fee from the owner of each
manufactured home in the Village, computed in the manner provided in Wis. Stat.
s. 66.0435(3).
      1.   The fee shall be applicable to manufactured homes moving into the
Village any time during the year. The licensed operator, or, if not in a
manufactured home community, the manufactured homeowner, shall furnish
information to the Village Clerk and the Village Assessor on manufactured homes
added to the Village within five days after their arrival, on forms prescribed
by the State of Wisconsin Department of Revenue. As soon as the Village
Assessor receives the notice of an addition of a home to the Village, the
Assessor shall determine its fair market value, and notify the Village Clerk of
the determination. The Village Clerk shall equalize the fair market value
established by the Village Assessor and shall apply the tax rate for that year,
divide the annual Village permit fee thus determined by 12, and notify the
manufactured homeowner and, if applicable, the licensed operator of the monthly
fee to be collected from the manufactured homeowner. Liability for payment of
the fee shall begin on the first day of the next succeeding month, and shall
remain on the manufactured home only for such months as the manufactured home
remains in the Village of Rochester.
      2.   A new fee rate and a new valuation shall be established each January
and shall continue for that calendar year. The valuation established shall be
subject to review as are other values established under Wis. Stat. ch. 70. If
the Board of Review reduces a valuation on which previous monthly payments have
been made, the Village shall refund past excess fee payments.
      3.   The monthly Village permit fee for manufactured homeowners within a
manufactured home community shall be paid by the manufactured homeowner to the
licensee (the manufactured home community operator) on or before the 10th of
the month following the month for which such Village permit fee is due.
      4.   The licensed operator is liable for the monthly Village permit fee
for any manufactured home occupying a site therein, as well as the owner and
occupant of the manufactured home, provided, however, that the licensee is not
liable until the Village has failed, in an action under Wis. Stat. ch. 799, to
collect the fee from the owner and occupant.
      5.   The monthly Village permit fee shall be collected by the licensee
(manufactured home community operator) from each manufactured homeowner in the
licensee’s manufactured home community and shall remit said fees to the Village
Treasurer no later than the 20th day of the month in which they are collected.
      6.   The monthly Village permit fee for a manufactured home located
outside of a licensed manufactured home community shall be paid by the owner of
the manufactured home, the occupant thereof, or the owner of land on which it
stands, in the manner provided for manufactured homes located in a manufactured
home community, and the owner of such unit or land shall be required to comply
with the reporting requirements of subsection C.1., above, provided that the
fee shall be paid directly to the Village Treasurer on or before the 10th day
of the month following the month for which such Village permit fee is due.
      7.   No fee may be imposed on a financial institution that relates to a
vacant unit that has been repossessed by the financial institution, as set
forth in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0435(3)(c)9.
      8.   The owner of a unit may apply for the principal dwelling credit set
forth in Wis. Stat. s. 79.10(9) pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0435(3)(c)8.
      9.   Recreational mobile homes and recreational vehicles, as defined in
Wis. Stat. s. 340.01(48r), along with steps and a platform not exceeding 50
square feet that lead to a recreational mobile home, are exempt from the fee
set forth herein; provided, however, that any other addition, attachment, patio
or deck is not exempt.
      10.   Failure to timely pay the fee hereunder shall be treated in all
respects like a default in payment of personal property tax and shall be
subject to all procedures and penalties applicable thereto under Wis. Stat.
chs. 70 and 74.
      11.   The licensed operator that collects the monthly fees is entitled to
deduct, for administrative purposes, two percent of the monthly fees collected.
      12.   The Village may retain ten percent of the monthly fees collected in
each month to cover the cost of administration, and shall distribute the
balance of the fees pursuant to the requirements of Wis. Stat. s. 66.0435(8).
21-5. APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A.   The original application for a manufactured home community license
shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   B.   Applications shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and shall
contain the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The location and legal description of the proposed manufactured home
community.
      3.   The complete plan of the proposed community.
21-6. PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND APPLICATIONS, AND APPLICATION FEE.
   A.   The original application for a manufactured home community shall
include plans and specifications that are in compliance with all applicable
regulations, ordinances and laws of the State of Wisconsin, County of Racine
(for Sanitary Permits) and the Village of Rochester. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee set forth for the Conditional Use permit application.
   B.   The application submitted in compliance with this Chapter,
Chapter 35, and other applicable provisions shall proceed pursuant to the Plan
Commission and Village Board review and public hearing provisions set forth in
Chapter 35.
   C.   Within 90 days after the public hearing, the Village Board shall make a
determination as to whether the operation of the proposed use described in the
application will be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the public
of the Village of Rochester, as to whether the intent and purpose of
Chapter 35, the Planning and Zoning Code, and other applicable chapters, is met
by the development, and as to whether the manufactured home community
development would cause the school costs in the applicable school district to
increase above the state average, and if adequate and proper sewage disposal
can be provided. Such determination shall be made on the basis of the
information contained in the application together with the information
presented at the public hearing and any other information assembled by the Plan
Commission and Village Board. Upon such determination, the Village Board shall
either grant or deny the application.
21-7. RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Upon application by any licensee and after approval by the Village Board,
and upon payment of the annual license fee, the Village Clerk shall issue a
certificate renewing the license for another year unless sooner revoked. The
application for renewal shall be in writing and signed by the applicant on
forms furnished by the Village.
21-8. LIMITATIONS, RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   A.   Not more than one Village license for a manufactured home community
within each graded school district serving the Village may be issued, and no
manufactured home community shall contain sites for more than 50 manufactured
homes, except that the Village Board may permit additional manufactured home
communities, or additional sites within a community, upon the following
conditions:
      1.   If the additional communities or sites will not cause the applicable
school costs to increase above the state average, and if adequate and proper
sewage disposal can be provided.
      2.   If the manufactured home community has been in operation for at
least one year prior to the request for additional sites.
      3.   If the manufactured home community complies with the requirements of
this and any other applicable law, ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Each manufactured home community is required to follow the regulations
set forth in Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 326, except in the event that any
ordinance or part of an ordinance or regulation or part of regulation is in
conflict with the provisions of Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 326, the stricter
provision shall prevail. The community operator shall obtain a permit from the
Department of Safety and Professional Services prior to or contemporaneous to
being licensed under this Chapter. The licensee shall obtain all permits
required by this Municipal Code, inclusive of the Conditional Use Permit set
forth in Section
35-100.
   C.   Refuse and Recyling. The licensee shall ensure that the owners of units
abide by the Refuse and Recycling provisions of this Municipal Code.
   D.   Lighting. All entrances, exits, lanes and driveways between rows of
manufactured homes used or occupied in any manufactured home community shall be
lighted by electric lighting approved by the Village Board.
   E.   Fire Extinguishers. Adequate firefighting equipment shall be provided,
including water and chemical-type fire extinguishers, and there shall be no
less than one fire extinguisher for every four manufactured home sites in the
manufactured home community. The Water Supply for Fire Protection Provisions of
Chapter 30 shall apply, and the Village may require a dry hydrant be
constructed.
21-9. SITE, PARKING, DRIVEWAY AND SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS. See s.
35-100.D.2.
21-10. REGISTRY.
   Each manufactured home community shall maintain a register for the
registration of all occupants, which register shall contain information as
follows:
   A.   Name and address of each occupant.
   B.   Manufactured home license number and manufacturer's name.
   C.   Automobile license number and name and make of automobile.
   D.   Number of site to which assigned.
   E.   Last place of location.
   F.   Date of arrival.
   G.   Date of departure.
21-50. PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or any regulation,
rule or order made hereunder shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 50. In addition:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of Section
21-4 of this Chapter relating to reporting the addition of manufactured homes
shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not more than $100.00 together with
costs of prosecution, and each failure to report shall be regarded as a
separate offense.
   B.   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter other than those
specified in Section
21-4 relating to reporting the addition of manufactured homes shall, upon
conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00
together with costs of prosecution. Every day of noncompliance shall be deemed
a separate and distinct offense.
   C.   Nothing set forth herein shall effect the application for or the
granting of a restraining order or injunction prohibiting the location of a
manufactured home within the Village of Rochester or requiring the removal of a
manufactured home from any location within the Village.
CHAPTER 25 HEALTH DEPARTMENT
25-1. LOCAL BOARD OF HEALTH, LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER.
   A.   Intermunicipal Agreement Providing for Joint Local Board of Health,
Joint Local Health Department and Joint Local Health Officer. By intermunicipal
agreement the Villages of Caledonia, Mt. Pleasant, Sturtevant and North Bay
have created a Joint Local Board of Health, established a Joint Local Health
Department and appointed a Joint Local Health Officer to serve the above
Villages, as well as other municipalities that are added as members to the
intermunicipal agreement ("Member Municipalities"), or otherwise contract for
the provision of public health services ("Contract Municipalities"). This
Agreement is entered into pursuant to the authority set forth in Wis. Stat.
Sections 66.0301, 251.09 and 251.02(3r).
   B.   Designation of Local Board of Health, Local Health Department and Local
Health Officer. The Joint Local Board of Health created by the intermunicipal
agreement is hereby designated the “Central Racine County Board of Health” and
is established as the joint local board of health of the Member Municipalities
and Contract Municipalities pursuant to Section 251.02(3r), Wisconsin Statutes.
The Central Racine County Health Department established pursuant to the
intermunicipal agreement is hereby designated and established as the local
health department of the Member Municipalities and Contract Municipalities
pursuant to Section 251.02(3r), Wisconsin Statutes. The local health officer,
designated as the Health Officer/Director of Public Health, and provided for in
the intermunicipal agreement is hereby designated as the local health officer
for the Member Municipalities and Contract Municipalities.
   C.   Local Board of Health. The local Board of Health shall be designated as
the Central Racine County Board of Health and pursuant to Wis. Stat. Section
251.03(4r), the parties determine that the membership of the Board of Health
shall be comprised as set forth in the intergovernmental agreement.
   D.   Powers and Duties of Local Board of Health. The Central Racine County
Board of Health shall constitute the policy-making body for the Central Racine
County Health Department, and shall exercise authority over financial and
personnel matters, as set forth in the intermunicipal agreement. The Board of
Health shall be responsible for operating and maintaining at least a Level II
Health Department to jointly serve the Member Municipalities and Contract
Municipalities. The Board of Health shall have the powers and perform such
duties as are prescribed in Wis. Stat. Sections 251.04 and 251.05, except as
otherwise specifically provided in the intermunicipal agreement or in joint
ordinances adopted by Member Municipalities and Contract Municipalities.
   E.   Effect of Intermunicipal Agreement. In all other respects such
intermunicipal agreement executed by the Member Municipalities shall govern the
administration of the Central Racine County Board of Health, Health Department
and Joint Local Health Officer.
   F.   Repeal of Inconsistent Ordinances. The provisions of this Chapter shall
supersede any inconsistent provisions of this Code of Ordinances, which
inconsistent provisions shall be, and hereby are, repealed as of the effective
date of this ordinance.
25-2. HUMAN HEALTH HAZARDS.
   A.   Purpose and General Provisions.
   This Section is adopted for the purpose of preserving and promoting the
public health of residents and preventing the continuance of Human Health
Hazards.
   No Person shall erect, construe, cause, continue, maintain or permit any
Human Health Hazards. Any Person who shall cause, create or maintain a Human
Health Hazard or who shall in any way aid or contribute to the creation or
maintenance thereof shall be guilty of a violation of this Section, and shall
be liable for all costs and expenses attendant upon the abatement or removal of
such hazards and subject to penalties provided in this Section.
   It shall be the joint responsibility of the Owner and Occupant of a Dwelling
or Dwelling Unit to maintain their property in a manner which complies with
this Code and any applicable state and federal laws.
   This Section does not prohibit the following activities so long as they are
conducted in accordance with the applicable ordinance or State Statute: the
sanitary operation of licensed junkyards; or the storage and accumulation of
ashes and effuse by industrial establishments which maintain adequate and
sanitary facilities and the space for the accumulation and storage of such
materials.
   B.   Authority.  This Section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
by Chapters 251 and 254, Wis. Stats., as amended from time-to-time, which
regulations are hereby adopted, and incorporated by reference as though fully
set forth herein. The Health Officer or Code Official shall have the power to
abate human health hazards in accordance with this Section and Wis. Stat.
Section 254.59, which statute is adopted by reference and made part of this
Section as if fully set forth in this Section.
   C.   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this Chapter, unless a different meaning is
plainly intended:
   Basement. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground.
   Building Inspector. The Building Inspector of the Municipality or his or her
authorized representative.
   Carbon Monoxide Detector. A device that detects the presence of carbon
monoxide gas.
   Cellar. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, but
having ½ or more of its clear floor to ceiling heights below the average grade
of the adjoining ground.
   Code Official. Building Inspector, municipal law enforcement officer, Fire
Chief, and/or the Health Officer, or their respective authorized
representatives.
   Dwelling. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
   Dwelling Unit. Any room or group of rooms located within a Dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating by one family.
   Exterior Premises. The open space on the premises or the portion of the
premises upon which there is not a structure.
   Extermination. The control or elimination of insects, rodents or other
Vermin by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food, by blocking their access
to a Dwelling, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping, or by any other
legal pest elimination method approved by the Code Official.
   Health Officer. The Health Officer of the Central Racine County Health
Department or his/her authorized representative.
   Human Health Hazard. A substance, activity or condition that is known to
have the potential to cause acute or chronic illness, to endanger life, to
generate or spread infectious diseases, or otherwise injuriously to affect the
health of the public.
   Immediate Human Health Hazard. A condition which exists or has the potential
to exist which should, in the opinion of the Health Officer, be abated or
corrected immediately, or at least within a 24-hour period, to prevent imminent
and severe damage to human health.
   Municipality.  A city, town, or village within the jurisdiction of the
Central Racine County Health Department.
   Occupant. Any Person living, sleeping or eating or having actual possession
of a Dwelling Unit.
   Owner. Any Person who, alone or jointly or severally with others shall be
the record holder of the title of any Dwelling or Dwelling Unit, with or
without actual possession thereof, or who has charge, care or control of any
Dwelling as agent of the owner or as executor, administrator, trustee or
Guardian of the estate of the owner.
   Person. Includes Owners, Occupants, their agents, tenants and any
individual, firm, corporation, partnership or association.
   Smoke Detector. A device that detects the visible or invisible particles of
combustion.
   Vermin. Rats, mice, cockroaches or similar animals or insects that are known
to be vectors of human pathogens.
   Workmanlike. Work of such character so as to meet manufacturer's
specifications, accepted national standards or recognized trade practices, and
to provide a durable result as intended to ensure public safety, health and
welfare insofar as they are affected by building construction, use and
occupancy.
   D.   Health Standards for Basic Facilities and Maintenance of Habitable
Living Quarters.  No Person shall occupy or allow another Person to occupy any
Dwelling or Dwelling Unit for the purpose of living or sleeping therein, which
does not comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Toilet and Lavatory. Every Dwelling Unit shall contain a water flush
toilet within a room which affords privacy to a Person in such room. Every
Dwelling Unit shall contain a lavatory basin, preferably but not exclusively in
the same room as the toilet. Such toilet and lavatory basins shall be connected
and maintained in compliance with the Municipality’s plumbing code.
      2.   Bathing Facilities. Every Dwelling Unit shall contain, within a room
which affords privacy to a Person in such room, a bathtub or shower connected
and maintained in compliance with the Municipality’s plumbing code.
      3.   Egress. Every Dwelling Unit shall have access to at least two
accessible, unobstructed means of egress leading to a safe and open public
street, alley or court.
      4.   Heating Facilities. Every Dwelling or Dwelling Unit shall be
equipped with heating facilities which are properly installed, and maintained
in a safe and good working condition and are capable of maintaining minimum
temperatures of 68 degrees Fahrenheit in all rooms with an outside temperature
of -10 degrees Fahrenheit.
      5.   Electric Service. Every outlet and fixture shall be properly
installed and shall be maintained in a good and safe working condition, and
shall be connected and maintained in compliance with the Municipality’s
Electric Code. Smoke Detectors. Smoke Detectors shall be installed outside of
each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms and on
each additional story of the Dwelling Unit, including Basements and Cellars
excluding crawl spaces and unfinished attics.
      6.   Carbon Monoxide Detectors. The owner of a dwelling shall install a
functional carbon monoxide detector in the basement of the dwelling and on each
floor level except the attic, garage, or storage area of each dwelling unit.
This paragraph does not apply to the owner of a dwelling that has no attached
garage, no fireplace, and no fuel-burning appliance.
      7.   Extermination of Vermin. Every Occupant of a Dwelling containing a
single Dwelling Unit shall be responsible for the Extermination of any Vermin
in or on the premises; and every Occupant of a Dwelling Unit in a Dwelling
containing more than one Dwelling Unit shall be responsible for such
Extermination within the unit occupied by them whenever their Dwelling Unit is
the only one infested. Notwithstanding such provisions, whenever an infestation
is caused by the failure of the Owner to maintain a Dwelling in a reasonably
rodent-proof or insect-proof condition, Extermination shall be the
responsibility of the Owner. Extermination of any infestation in an unoccupied
Dwelling Unit shall be the responsibility of the Owner even though the
condition may have been caused by a previous Occupant. All Extermination
services shall be performed by a licensed exterminator. Effective Extermination
shall continue until all Vermin are eliminated. The responsible person shall
submit completed Extermination reports from the licensed exterminator to the
appropriate Code Official upon request.
      8.   Hazardous Conditions. Every Dwelling Unit shall be structurally
sound and shall be free of conditions that constitute a Human Health Hazard, an
Immediate Human Health Hazard to the health and safety of the Occupant(s) or
which create an unreasonable risk of personal injury resulting from any
reasonably foreseeable use of the Dwelling.
      9.   Discontinuance of Service. No Owner or Occupant shall cause any
service, facility, equipment or utility which is required under this Section to
be removed or shut off from, or discontinued for, any occupied Dwelling which
is let or occupied by such Person, except for such temporary interruption as
may be necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in progress, or during
a temporary emergency when discontinuance of service is approved by a Code
Official.
   E.   Enforcement.  Upon request of an Owner or Occupant, or upon receipt of
a credible complaint, a Code Official shall inspect or cause to be inspected
the Dwelling, Dwelling Unit or Exterior Premises which is the subject of the
complaint or upon which there exists evidence of a violation of this Section.
Such inspection shall be for the purpose of determining whether or not the
condition of the Dwelling or Dwelling Unit complies with the standards set
forth in this Section.  
   F.   Access to Property.  After presenting proper identification a Code
Official shall be permitted to enter upon any property at any reasonable time
for the purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this Section
and related ordinances. If denied access, the Code Official may acquire a
special inspection warrant for such access, pursuant to Sec. 66.0119, Wis.
Stats., as amended from time-to-time.  
   G.   Declaration of Dwelling as Human Health Hazard.  Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Section, if a Code Official determines that any
Dwelling or Dwelling Unit is a Human Health Hazard or Immediate Human Health
Hazard, the Code Official shall placard such Dwelling and within 24 hours
thereafter serve notice either, by registered mail, return receipt requested,
or by personally served notice in the manner provided for in the State Statutes
for service of process to the Occupant and Owner that the Dwelling is unfit for
human habitation and that it shall be vacated within a reasonable time as
ordered by the Code Official. A Dwelling may be declared a Human Health Hazard
or Immediate Human Health Hazard for any of, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      1.   A Dwelling is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, dangerous,
unsanitary, unsafe or Vermin-infested that it creates a hazard to the health or
safety of the Occupants or the public.
      2.   A Dwelling lacks a potable water supply, a properly functioning
public or private sanitary sewer system, or a functioning heating system
adequate to protect the health and safety of the Occupants.
      3.   A Dwelling, because of its condition, has been implicated as the
potential source of a severe poisoning by a toxic substance including but not
limited to lead-bearing paint.
   H.   Workmanship.  All repairs, maintenance work, alterations or
installations which are required directly or indirectly by the enforcement of
this Section shall be executed and installed in a Workmanlike manner.
   I.   Notice of Violation and Orders for Corrective Actions.  Whenever a Code
Official determines that there has been a violation of this Section, notice
shall be given to the property Owner, and Occupant as appropriate. Such notice
shall:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Include a statement of the violation with reference to the
applicable provision(s) of this Section.
      3.   Include the correction(s) necessary to bring about compliance.
      4.   Contain an order to correct said violation by a date certain.
   J.   Service of Notice.  Each notice or order, other than as provided in
Subsection G., provided under this Section shall be deemed to be properly
served if a copy thereof is:
      1.   Personally served in the manner provided for in the State Statutes
for service of process or,
      2.   Sent by U.S. first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
last known address or,
      3.   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the main entrance to the
structure located at the last known address, where there is a structure.
   K.   Appeal.  Any Person affected by any notice or order which has been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Section may request in writing a review by the Health Officer or other Code
Official issuing such notice or order. Such request shall be submitted before
the date for the violation is to be corrected. Subsequent appeal shall be
pursuant to the Administrative Review section of this Code or Chapter 68 of the
Wisconsin Statutes. 
   L.   Noncompliance with Order.
      1.   Citation. A citation for any violation of this Section may be issued
by the Police, Sheriff's Department or by an appropriate Code Official.
      2.   Abatement of Human Health Hazards/Emergency Action. In extreme cases
where a violation poses an Immediate Human Health Hazard as determined by the
Health Officer or other implicated Code Official, , the Health Officer or Code
Official may immediately commence the actions authorized by this Chapter, or
any other statutory or ordinance authority, to abate or removed the hazard.
   M.   Penalties. Any Person who violates any provision of this Section shall
upon conviction be subjected to a forfeiture of not less than $300.00 or more
than $1000.00 for each violation, and in addition, shall pay the costs and
expenses of prosecution. Each day such violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense.  
25-3 LODGING, RECREATION AND FOOD PROTECTION.
   A.   Purpose and General Provisions. The purpose of this Section is to
preserve and promote the public health of the residents. The Health Department
is granted agent status under Sections 97.41 and 463.16 , Wis. Stats., and
accordingly provides all licenses and inspections for retail food
establishments, restaurants, public swimming pools, and water attractions,
tattoo and body piercing establishments, recreational and educational camps,
campgrounds, hotels, motels, tourist rooming houses, bed and breakfast
establishments and food vending operations in accordance with the applicable
Wisconsin Statutes and/or Administrative Code Chapter.
   B.   Authority. This Section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by
Chapters 251, 252, 254, and Sections 97.41 and 463.16 of the Wisconsin
Statutes, as amended from time-to-time, which regulations are hereby adopted,
and incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein. The Health
Officer, or his or her designee, shall have the power to enforce the
regulations of this Section.
   C.   Adoption of State Code; Applications, Permits, and Licenses Required.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section and pursuant to the authority
granted by Wisconsin Statutes Chapters 251, 252, 254 and Sections 66.0417 and
97.41, the Village adopts Wisconsin Administrative Code Chapters ATCP 75, SPS
390, SPS 221, ATCP 76, ATCP 78, ATCP 79, DHS 192, ATCP 72, ATCP 73, as amended
from time-to-time, which are incorporated by reference as though fully set
forth herein. All applications, permits and licenses required by such
regulations are required by the Municipality and shall be processed in
accordance with the applicable Statute or Code Section.
   D.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this Section, unless a different meaning is
plainly intended:
      1.   Body Piercer. Means a person who performs body piercing on another
person at that person's request.
      2.   Food Establishment. An operation that stores, prepares, serves,
vends, sells or otherwise provides food for human consumption. The term "Food
Establishment" includes a "restaurant" as defined in Section 97.01, Wis.
Stats.; a "retail food establishment" as defined in Section 97.30, Wis. Stats.
      3.   Tattooist. Means a person who tattoos another person at that
person's request.
   E.   Mobile Food Establishments. A valid Food Establishment permit issued by
the State of Wisconsin or any other competent Health Department for any mobile
restaurant or mobile retail Food Establishment which chooses to operate within
the jurisdiction of the Central Racine County Health Department will be honored
by the Central Racine County Health Department. The mobile Food Establishment
may be required to be inspected by the health department and to satisfy the
relevant provisions of Wisconsin Administrative Code Chapter ATCP 75. In
addition, the mobile food establishment shall pay an inspection fee for this
inspection.
   F.   Body Piercers and Tattooists. All body piercers and tattooists shall
annually complete a bloodborne pathogen training course that is approved by the
Health Department. Any tattoo or body piercing establishment allowing a
tattooist or body piercer to practice in the establishment without proof of
bloodborne pathogen training with be assessed a fee. This fee shall be
established by Board of Health as part of the annual budget process.
   G.   Application; Permit. Any license or permit required under this Section
shall make application on a form provided by the Health Department. The Health
Department shall determine the contents of the application and may use a form
provided by the State. Applications for permits shall be submitted to the
Health Department along with the appropriate fee. Applications will be reviewed
for compliance with this Section. Permits and licenses issued hereunder shall
be conspicuously displayed on the premises of the establishment.
   H.   Inspection by Department. Authorized employees of the Department, upon
presenting proper identification, shall have the authority to perform
inspections prior to issuance of any permit or license and from time-to-time of
any establishment for compliance with this Code, including the state laws
incorporated in this Code by reference.
   I.   Fees. All fees associated with the operation of any establishment
governed by this Section shall be established as part of the annual budget
process or by resolution of the Board of Health.
   J.   Penalties. Any Person who violates any provision of this Section shall
upon conviction be subjected to a forfeiture of not less than $300.00 or more
than $1,000.00 for each violation, and in addition, shall pay the costs and
expenses of prosecution. Each day such violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense.
   K.   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by any temporary order issued by the
Health Officer pursuant to Sec. 66.0417(2)(a), Wis. Stats., shall be granted a
hearing before the Board of Health in accordance with the provisions of such
Section. Appeal from any order, notice or determination made by the Health
Officer other than one controlled by Sec. 66.0417 shall be to the Board of
Health pursuant to the applicable ordinance or Chapter 68 of the Wisconsin
Statutes in the absence of an administrative review ordinance. The Board of
Health may affirm, set aside, or modify the subject order by majority vote. The
Board of Health's decision shall be final but may be appealed to the Racine
County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 10-12-2020)
25-4. RABIES CONTROL.
   A.   Purpose and General Provisions. The purpose of this Section is to
preserve and promote the public health of the residents. Pursuant to Section
254.51, Wis. Stats., the Health Department shall establish measures for the
prevention, surveillance and control of human disease that is associated with
animal-borne disease transmission.
   B.   Authority. This Section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by
Chapters 250, 251, and 254 of the Wisconsin Statutes. The law enforcement
officer, Humane Officer, Health Officer or their designees shall have the power
to enforce the regulations of this Section, including by the issuance of one or
more citations, as warranted.
   C.   Adoption of Wisconsin State Statute. In addition to the provisions of
this Section and pursuant to the authority granted by Chapters 250, 251 and 254
of the Wisconsin Statutes, the Municipality adopts Section 95.21, Wis. Stats.,
which is incorporated by reference as though set forth herein. To the extent
any provision conflicts with another provision in this Section, the more
restrictive provision applies.
   D.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this Section, unless a different meaning is
plainly intended:
   Bite. To seize with teeth or jaws, so as to enter, wound, or pierce the
skin.
   Cat. Any member of the species felis catus (the domestic cat).
   Code Officer. The Municipality’s law enforcement officer, Humane Officer,
Health Officer or their designees.
   Dog. Any member of the species canis familiaris (the domestic dog).
   Ferret. Any member of the species mustela putorius (the domestic ferret).
   E.   Rabies Vaccination Required for Dogs. The owner of a Dog shall have the
animal vaccinated against rabies. An owner who fails to obtain a rabies
vaccination for a Dog shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 and
not more than $100, plus the costs of prosecution.
   F.   Duty to Report Bite. Any person having knowledge or reason to believe
that any Dog, Cat or Ferret has bitten a person, shall immediately report, so
far as is known, the name and address of the owner of the animal and
circumstances of such Bite. Such report shall be made to the Village/Town
Police Department or Sheriff's Department.
   G.   Quarantine. Any Dog, Cat or Ferret within the Municipality which is
believed to have bitten a person, to have been infected with rabies, or to have
been in contact with a rabid animal shall be subject to the quarantine
requirements and procedures set forth in Sec. 95.21, Wis. Stats. If the Code
Official, Chief of Police, the Health Officer, or the Humane Officer determines
that a Dog, Cat, Ferret or other domestically-owned animal found in the
Municipality has rabies, the Health Officer may order a district quarantine, as
provided by § 95.21(3).
   H.   Noncompliance with Quarantine Order. If after a Dog, Cat or Ferret
Bites a person, the animal’s owner fails to quarantine the animal and/or fails
to have the animal examined by a licensed veterinarian, the animal may be
seized by the Code Official, Health Officer, Police Officer, Deputy Sheriff,
Humane Officer or their designees and held at a designated facility until the
quarantine time expires. The owner or custodian of the animal shall pay all
applicable fees associated with the quarantine, veterinarian's examinations,
vaccination and license prior to releasing the animal from the quarantine
facility.
   I.   Appeal. Any person affected by any notice or order which has been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Section may request in writing a review by the Health Officer or other Code
Official issuing such notice or order. Such request shall be submitted before
the date for the violation is to be corrected. Subsequent appeal shall be to
the Village/Town Board pursuant to the applicable ordinance or Chapter 68 of
the Wisconsin Statutes in the absence of an administrative review ordinance.
   J.   Penalties. Except as otherwise provided herein, any person who violates
any provision of this Section shall upon conviction be subjected to a
forfeiture of not less than $300.00 or more than $1000.00 for each violation,
and in addition, shall pay the costs and expenses of prosecution. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.”
CHAPTER 30 LAND DIVISION
ARTICLE 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
30-1. AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority granted by Wis. Stat. s.
236.45.
30-2. PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the division of land
within the limits of the Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin in
order to promote the public health, safety, and the general welfare of the
Village.
30-3. INTENT.
   It is the general intent of this chapter to regulate the division of land to
further the orderly layout and use of land; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to lessen congestion in the streets and highways; to provide for adequate
light and air; to facilitate adequate provision for water, sewerage and other
public requirements; to provide for proper ingress and egress; and to promote
proper monumenting of land subdivided and conveyancing by accurate legal
description. This will be done in such a way as to preserve natural resource
areas, farmland, and other large areas of open land, while permitting
residential development at appropriate densities for the urban and rural
characteristics of the Village, in an open space setting, located and designed
to reduce the perceived intensity of development and provide privacy for
dwellings. Generally this will be achieved through an appropriate combination
of traditional and conservation subdivisions and carefully planned minor
divisions. Specific objectives are as follows:
   A.   Guide growth and development consistent with the November 2009 “A
Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive Plan for Racine County: 2035” as amended
from time to time (the “Village Comprehensive Plan”).
   B.   Use ecological planning principles in the design, construction and long
term management of all new developments.
   C.   Guide analysis of development parcels so as to locate and coordinate
appropriate areas for development and conservation.
   D.    Preserve rural character and maintain scenic views where appropriate.
   E.   Protect environmental corridors.
   F.   Preserve productive agricultural lands.
   G.   Provide permanently protected open space for residents of developments.
   H.   Provide a diversity of lot size, housing choices and building
densities.
   I.   Provide buffer between residential development and non-residential
uses.
   J.   Ensure sound standards for development are met: enforce flood plain
requirements; build only on proper soils; provide friendly street layouts,
block configurations and open spaces; provide user friendly motorized and non-
motorized traffic patterns; provide adequate utilities and effective storm
water management.
   K.   Ensure fiscal stability of the community by minimizing the cost of
public facilities and services.
   L.   Balance private property rights against the need to protect and
preserve public health, safety and welfare.
   M.   Provide basis for clear and accurate boundary line records.
   N.   Provide for administration and enforcement of this Chapter and
penalties for violations
30-4. ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this Chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, agreements, rules,
regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to laws. Where
the revisions, conditions and restrictions of this Chapter are more restrictive
than the, conditions and restrictions contained in the Village’s adopted
Comprehensive Plan, the provisions, conditions and restrictions contained in
this Chapter shall govern. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.1001(3), local
subdivision ordinances enacted or amended after the date of adoption of the
Comprehensive Plan shall be consistent with the Village’s Comprehensive Plan.
30-5. INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Village and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other power granted by the Wisconsin Statutes.
30-6. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or portion of this Chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this Chapter shall not be affected thereby.
30-7. TITLE.
   This Chapter may be referred to as the “Land Division Code, Village of
Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin” or the “Land Division Code.”
30-8. JURISDICTION.
   Jurisdiction of these regulations shall include all incorporated lands
within the Village of Rochester, Racine County, Wisconsin.
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter, as it applies to divisions of tracts of
land, shall not apply to:
      1.   Transfers of interests in land by will or pursuant to court order;
      2.   Lease for a term not to exceed ten years, mortgages, or easements;
and
      3.   Sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
property if additional lots are not thereby created and the lots resulting are
not reduced below the minimum sizes required by these regulations, the zoning
ordinances, or other applicable laws or ordinances.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter, as it applies to all divisions of
tracts of land, shall not apply to:
      1.   Cemetery plats made under Wis. Stat. s. 157.07; and
      2.   Assessor’s plats made under Wis. Stat. s. 70.27, but such assessors’
plats shall comply with Wis. Stat. ss. 236.15(1)(a) to (g) and 236.20(1) and
(2)(a) to (e).
30-9. COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall divide any land located within the jurisdictional limits of
these regulations which results in a condominium, planned development,
conservation subdivision, conventional subdivision, certified survey map or
replat as defined herein, and no such condominium, planned development,
conservation subdivision, certified survey map, or replat shall be entitled to
recording; and no street shall be laid out or improvements made to land without
compliance with all requirements of this Chapter and the following:
   A.   Chapters 236 and 703 of the Wisconsin Statutes;
   B.   Rules of the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional Services,
contained in Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 383 and related chapters of the Wisconsin
Administrative Code for land division not served by public sewer;
   C.   Rules of the Wisconsin Department of Transportation relating to safety
of access and preservation of the public interest and investment in the highway
system if the land owned or controlled by the subdivider abuts on a state trunk
highway or connecting street;
   D.   Rules of the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, Division of
Environmental Protection setting water quality standards preventing and abating
pollution, and regulating development within floodplain, wetland, shoreland-
wetland and shoreland areas; and
   E.   All other applicable state, local and county ordinances and
regulations.
30-10. APPLICABILITY TO CONVENTIONAL AND CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS AND MINOR
DIVISIONS.
   A.   Conventional and conservation subdivision standards apply to all
divisions in the non-sewer district where the division of a parent parcel of 20
or more net buildable acres creates five or more parcels including the parent
remnant.
   B.   Conventional and conservation subdivision standards apply to all
subdivisions in the sewer district where the division of a parent parcel of 20
or more net buildable acres creates five or more parcels including the parent
remnant.
   C.   Condominium Plats: Conventional and conservation subdivision standards
apply to all condominium plats prepared under Chapter 703 of the Wisconsin
Statutes. A condominium plat that does not include a land division is exempt
from review under this Chapter, and must meet the regulations of the Planning
and Zoning Code, i.e., if the condominium is one five unit building, it is
treated as a multifamily development under the Planning and Zoning Code, and if
it is five single-family units, or five duplexes, without a land division, it
is treated accordingly, with the appropriate lot sizes per family, etc. If the
owners/developers want to reduce yard sizes, setbacks, etc. under the Planning
and Zoning Code, a PUD must be requested under the Planning and Zoning Code. If
a land division is requested, this Chapter is applicable only to the land
division and not the condominium plat itself.
   D.   Minor Divisions standards apply to all minor divisions in the sewer and
non-sewer districts.
30-11. DEDICATION OF LANDS.
   Whenever a tract of land to be divided within the jurisdiction of this
Chapter encompasses all or any part of a public street, drainage way, or other
public way which has been designated on a duly adopted Village or regional
comprehensive plan or comprehensive plan component, said public way shall be
made a part of the plat and dedicated by the subdivider in the locations and
dimensions indicated on said plan or component and as set forth in this
Chapter.
30-12. IMPROVEMENTS.
 1   Before final approval of any final plat located within the jurisdiction
limits of this Chapter, the subdivider shall install street, utility and other
public improvements as hereinafter provided. The subdivider shall enter a
contract with the Village concerning such work per Article 10, and shall
provide a financial guarantee. Upon written request of the subdivider, the
Village Board may allow the subdivider to file a cash deposit or letter of
credit as a financial guarantee to assure completion of such improvements and
then record the final plat before the work is completed. Although the
subdivider may have a statutory ability to choose the form of the financial
guarantee, if the subdivider chooses a form other than an approved letter of
credit or cash deposit, all work must be completed prior to recording the final
plat. The required contract and financial guarantee shall be in a form approved
by the Village Attorney, with the financial guarantee in an amount equal to 120
percent of the estimated cost of the improvements -- said estimate to be made
pursuant to the procedures in Wis. Stat. s. 236.13(2) -- as a guarantee that
such improvements are properly and timely completed. If the subdivider requests
and is granted permission to record the final plat before the improvements are
completed, the approved form of financial guarantee shall warrant that the
improvements will be completed by the subdivider or the subdivider’s
contractors or subcontractors not later than two years from the date of
recording of the plat and as a further guarantee that all obligations to
subcontractors for work on the development are satisfied. In addition:
   A.   Contracts and contract specifications for the construction of street
and utility improvements on dedicated street rights-of-way, as well as the
contractors and subcontractors providing such work shall be subject to the
approval of the Village Engineer;
   B.   Governmental units to which these financial guarantee and contract
provisions apply may file, in lieu of said contract and financial guarantee, a
letter from officers authorized to act on their behalf agreeing to comply with
the provisions of this section;
   C.   Survey monuments: Before final approval of any plat within the Village,
the subdivider shall install survey monuments (hereinafter sometimes referred
to as “monuments) placed in accordance with the requirements of Wis. Stat. s.
236.15 and as may be required by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-8-2018)
 
Notes
1 1 Amended by Ordinance #2018-5, Adopted 8.6.2018
30-13. VARIANCES.
   Where, in the judgment of the Village Board, it would be inappropriate to
apply literally the provisions of this Chapter because exceptional or undue
hardship would result, the Village Board, after review and recommendation by
the Village Plan Commission, may waive or modify any requirement to the extent
deemed just and proper.
   A.   No variance to the provisions of this Chapter shall be granted unless
the Village Board finds by the greater weight of the evidence that all the
following facts and conditions exist and so indicates in the minutes of its
proceedings:
      1.   Exceptional circumstances: That there are exceptional,
extraordinary, or unusual circumstances or conditions where a literal
enforcement of the requirements of this Chapter would result in severe
hardship. (Such hardships should not apply generally to other properties or be
of such a recurrent nature as to suggest that the Land Division Chapter should
be changed).
      2.   Preservation of property rights: That such variance is necessary for
the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights possessed by
other properties in the same vicinity.
      3.   Absence of detriment: That the variance will not create substantial
detriment to adjacent property and will not materially impair or be contrary to
the purpose and spirit of this Chapter or the public interest.
   B.   The Village Board may waive the placing of monuments, required under
Wis. Stat. ss. 236.15(1)(b), (1)(c), and (1)(d), for a reasonable time on the
condition that the subdivider executes or provides sufficient surety to insure
the placing of such monuments within the required time limits established by
the Village.
30-14. LAND SUITABILITY.
   A.   Environmentally sensitive land shall not be developed except as set
forth in this section. Areas identified as environmentally sensitive include,
but are not limited to the following:
      1.   All areas mapped as floodplain by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, or other public or private
entity, and unmapped flood prone areas subject to inundation by the 100-year
storm event.
      2.   All wetlands, including ephemeral ponds, as defined in Wis. Admin.
Code s. NR 103.02(5), including a 75-foot buffer from the edge of the wetlands,
except that Private Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems are not subject to the
75-foot buffer requirement.
      3.   All areas within the areas zoned as shoreland pursuant to
Chapter 36, i.e., within the applicable distance from the high water mark of
navigable streams and lake, as identified by the Wisconsin Department of
Natural Resources Water Management Specialists.
      4.   Regional natural areas and critical species habitat.
      5.   Areas known to provide habitat for rare, threatened or endangered
species.
      6.   Burial sites and Indian mounds.
      7.   Any drainage way where water runs during spring runoff or during a
100-year rainfall event. A 25-foot buffer from the edge of the drainage way
shall be included.
      8.   All areas restricted by Wisconsin Administrative Code for private
on-site wastewater treatment systems including high groundwater (within 6 feet
of undisturbed surface), or bedrock within 6 feet of the natural undisturbed
surface, filled lands, and lands drained by farm drainage tiles or ditch
systems which would otherwise be wetlands.
   B.   Areas determined to be environmentally sensitive may be included as
Common Space in a conservation subdivision.
   C.   The Village Board, in applying the provisions of this section, shall in
writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that the
land is unsuitable for residential use and afford the subdivider an opportunity
to present evidence in rebuttal to such finding of unsuitability if they so
desire. Thereafter, the Village Board may affirm, modify, or withdraw its
determination of unsuitability.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 6-6-2022)
30-15. EXTRATERRITORIAL PLAT APPROVAL JURISDICTION.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 236.45(3):
   A.   The subdivision ordinances adopted by the Village shall regulate the
division or subdivision of land within the extraterritorial plat approval
jurisdiction of the Village as well as land within the corporate limits of the
Village when the Village has the right to approve or object to plats within
that area under Wis. Stat. s. 236.10(1)(b)2. and (2).
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A. and Wis. Stat. ss. 236.45(1) and (2), the
Village may not deny approval of a plat or certified survey map under this
section or Wis. Stat. ss. 236.10 or 236.13 on the basis of the proposed use of
land within the extraterritorial plat approval jurisdiction of the Village,
unless the denial is based on a plan or regulations, or amendments thereto,
adopted by the Village Board under Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7a)(c).
   C.   In the event the Village’s statutory extraterritorial plat approval
jurisdiction overlaps with another municipality, the jurisdiction of the
overlap will be decided in accordance with Wis. Stat. s. 66.0105, which
provides:
Wherever these statutory extraterritorial powers overlap, the jurisdiction over
the overlapping area shall be divided on a line all points of which are
equidistant from the boundaries of each municipality concerned so that not more
than one municipality shall exercise power over any area.
The Village shall keep a map on file in the Village Clerk’s office which
determines the Village’s jurisdiction in overlapping areas. This map may be
amended from time-to-time as needed due to border adjustments in Rochester or
Waterford.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-16-2022)
30-16. FEES.
   Fees and Costs. The fees and costs for review of Plats, CSMs and other
reviews required by this Chapter shall be in amounts determined by the Village
Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule. Reviews shall not occur or approvals
granted until the applicant pays all applicable fees and costs to the
Treasurer.
ARTICLE 2. SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
30-21. PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   It is recommended that, prior to filing a subdivision conceptual plan, the
subdivider consult with the Village Zoning Administrator, and the Plan
Commission, in order to obtain their advice and assistance. This consultation
is neither formal nor mandatory, but is intended to inform the subdivider of
the purpose and objectives of these regulations, the comprehensive land use
plan, comprehensive plan components, , duly adopted plan for implementation
devices of the Village, conventional subdivision requirements, conservation
subdivision procedures and process as shown in Appendix A, and to otherwise
assist the subdivider in planning the development. In doing so, both the
subdivider and the Village Plan Commission may reach mutual conclusions
regarding the general program and objectives of the proposed development and
its possible adverse effects on the neighborhood and community. The subdivider
will gain a better understanding of the subsequently required procedures.
30-22. CONCEPTUAL PLAN.
   A.   Prior to the filing of an application for the approval of a preliminary
plat, the subdivider shall submit ten copies of a conceptual plan of the
proposed land division prepared in accordance with this chapter to the Zoning
Administrator for review and comment by the Village Plan Commission and Village
staff and consultants. Submission must be received at least 20 days prior to
the next Plan Commission meeting in order to be added to the agenda. To
facilitate the discussion, it is recommended that all members of the Commission
visit the site with the developer as part of a Plan Commission meeting.
   B.   The conceptual plan is intended to provide an early opportunity to
review policy issues relating to the development and its possible adverse
effects on the adjacent neighborhood and community. Assuming neighboring
properties are likely to be developed in the future, the Plan Commission may
recommend to the Village Board that a neighborhood plan be prepared prior to
accepting the conceptual plan. The Village would be responsible for preparing
such a plan. The plan would include, but not necessarily be limited to
identifying locations of the following:
      1.   Streets and highway access points;
      2.   Environmentally sensitive areas which cannot be developed as defined
in Section
30-14, Land Suitability;
      3.   Environmental corridors;
      4.   Residential development areas; and
      5.   Business and commercial development areas.
   C.   The Village Plan Commission may recommend and the Village Board may
require:
      1.   That the developer submit a conservation subdivision development
plan as an alternative to a conventional subdivision; and
      2.   For development within, or within 200 feet of, a primary or
secondary environmental corridor, that a qualified ecological service provider
provide a habitat assessment and a plan to minimize adverse effects on
vegetation and wildlife within the corridor. When the affected corridor land is
owned by another party(s), the assessment and plan will be waived if the other
owner(s) do not grant permission. At the discretion of the Plan Commission,
similar information may be required for isolated natural resources. These
corridors and resources are identified in “A Multi-Jurisdictional;
Comprehensive Plan for Racine County: 2035” on Map VI-1, as may be amended from
time to time.
30-23. PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   Notice of any public hearing which the Plan Commission or Village Board is
required to hold under the terms of this Chapter shall specify the date, time
and place of said hearing and shall state the matter to be considered at said
hearing. Notice shall be provided as required by applicable state statutes. The
following notifications shall be required in addition to the notice required by
statute:
   A.   Written Notice. At least 14 days prior to initial review of a land
division conceptual plan or CSM by the Plan Commission, the Village Clerk shall
send a written notice to the property owner and to the property owners abutting
the subject property, including abutting owners on the opposite side of the
street, advising of the date of the meeting when the proposal will first be
considered.
   B.   Signs. At least 14 days prior to initial review of a land division
conceptual plan or CSM by the Plan Commission, the applicant shall post one or
more signs, clearly visible from each adjoining road, advising of pending
review. The signs shall remain in place until the day after the Village Board
meeting at which the land division is finally approved or denied by the Village
Board. The signs shall be provided by the Village and shall be returned by the
applicant no later than two days after final determination. Improper posting
may result in the Plan Commission delaying consideration until a later meeting.
30-24. PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL. 2
   After submitting a conceptual plan and before submitting a final subdivision
plat for approval, the subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat with
supporting date and a letter of application. The preliminary plat and
supporting data shall be prepared in accordance with this chapter and Wisconsin
law. The subdivider shall file an electronic copy of the plat and one hard copy
capable of legible reproduction with supporting data and application with the
Village Clerk, together with all necessary fees, at least 30 days prior to the
meeting of the Village Plan Commission at which first consideration is desired.
The Clerk may require additional copies. The subdivider shall also file an
electronic copy or a hard copy of the plat with the Wisconsin Department of
Administration in conformance with Wis. Stat. s. 236.12.
   A.   The Village Clerk shall forward the Preliminary Plat (which may be an
electronic copy or reduced copy) and letter of application within two normal
working days to each of the following:
      1.   Village Trustees;
      2.   Village Plan Commission Members;
      3.   Zoning Administrator and Village Engineer;
      4.   Contracted Fire Company.
      5.   School Board with jurisdiction (for review and comment).
   B.   After review and input from the objecting agencies as set forth in Wis.
Stat. s. 236.12, Village Engineer and Fire Chief, the Zoning Administrator and
Village Plan Commission will review the Preliminary Plat and supporting data
and suggest changes needed to comply with this chapter and all ordinances,
rules, regulations, comprehensive plans and comprehensive plan components, and
conventional and conservation subdivision procedures. Efforts will be made to
resolve any differences and a recommendation made to the Village Board to
approve or reject the plat.
   C.   The Village Board shall, within 90 days of the date of filing of a
Preliminary Plat and supporting data with the Village Clerk, approve, approve
conditionally, or reject such plat. One copy of the plat shall thereupon be
returned to the subdivider with the date and action endorsed thereon; and if
approved conditionally or rejected, a letter setting forth the conditions of
approval or the reasons for rejection shall accompany the plat. One copy of
each of the plat and letter shall be placed in the Village’s permanent file.
   D.   Failure of the Village Board to act within 90 days shall constitute an
approval of the Preliminary Plat as filed.
   E.   If the final plat conforms substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, including any conditions of that approval, and to local plans and
ordinances adopted as authorized by law, it is entitled to approval. If the
final plat is not submitted within 36 months after the last required approval
of the preliminary plat, any approving authority may refuse to approve the
final plat or may extend the time for submission of the final plat. The final
plat may, if permitted by the approving authority, constitute only that portion
of the approved preliminary plat that the subdivider proposes to record at that
time. See Wis. Stat. s. 236.11(1)(b).
   F.   See also s.
30-25C.
 
Notes
2 2 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-25. FINAL PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL. 3
   A.   The subdivider shall prepare a Final Plat, letter of application and
shall file an electronic copy of the Plat and a hard copy of the Plat capable
of reproduction and hard and electronic copies of the application with the
Village Clerk, along with all applicable fees in accordance with this chapter
and Wis. Stat. ch. 236, at least 45 days prior to the meeting of the Village
Board at which action is desired. The Village Clerk may require additional
copies. The subdivider shall also file the Plat with the Department of
Administration as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 236.12.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall forward the Final Plat (which may be an
electronic copy or reduced copy), and letter of application within two normal
working days to each of the following:
      1.   Village Trustees;
      2.   Village Plan Commission Members;
      3.   Zoning Administrator and Village Engineer;
      4.   Contracted Fire Company;
      5.   School Board with jurisdiction (for review and comment).
   C.   The Village Plan Commission and Village Engineer shall examine the
Final Plat as to its conformance with the approved Preliminary Plat, any
condition of approval of the Preliminary Plat, this chapter and all ordinances,
rules, regulations, comprehensive plan components and conservation subdivision
procedures which may affect it. The Village Plan Commission shall recommend
approval or rejection of the Plat to the Village Board.
      1.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 236.11(1)(c), the Village Engineer shall
provide the Village with his or her conclusions as to whether the final plat
conforms substantially to the preliminary plat and with his or her
recommendation on approval of the final plat. The conclusions and
recommendation shall be made a part of the record of the proceeding at which
the final plat is being considered and are not required to be submitted in
writing.
      2.   Basis for Approval. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 236.13:
         a.   The basis for approval of a preliminary or final plat shall be
conditioned on compliance with the following:
            (1)   The provisions of Wis. Stat. ch. 236;
            (2)   Any Village or applicable county ordinance that is in effect
when the subdivider submits a preliminary plat, or a final plat if no
preliminary plat is submitted;
            (3)   The rules of the Department of Safety and Professional
Services relating to lot size and lot elevation necessary for proper sanitary
conditions in a subdivision not served by a public sewer, where provision for
public sewer service has not been made;
            (4)   The rules of the department of transportation relating to
provision for the safety of entrance upon and departure from the abutting state
trunk highways or connecting highways and for the preservation of the public
interest and investment in such highways.
         b.   As a further condition of approval, the Village shall require
that the subdivider make and install any public improvements reasonably
necessary as required by Section
30-12. The subdivider may construct the project in such phases as the Village
Board approves, which approval may not be unreasonably withheld. If the
subdivider's project will be constructed in phases, the amount of any financial
guarantee required by the Village Board shall be limited to the phase of the
project that is currently being constructed, and a separate contract is
required for each phase. The Village Board may not require that the subdivider
provide any security for improvements sooner than is reasonably necessary
before the commencement of the installation of the improvements.
         c.   The Village shall require as a condition for accepting the
dedication of public streets, alleys or other ways, or for permitting private
streets, alleys or other public ways to be placed on the official map, that the
following facilities shall have been previously provided without cost to the
Village, but which are constructed according to Village specifications and
under Village inspection: sewerage (where required under Chapter 10), storm
water management and/or treatment facilities, grading and improvement of
streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways, street lighting, and other
facilities as may designated by the Village Board, or that a specified portion
of such costs shall be paid in advance as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0709.
         d.   The Village shall require as a condition of approval that the
subdivider be responsible for the cost of any necessary alterations of any
existing utilities which, by virtue of the platting or certified survey map,
fall within the public right-of-way.
         e.   As a further condition of approval, the Village may require the
dedication of easements by the subdivider for the purpose of assuring the
unobstructed flow of solar or wind energy across adjacent lots in the
subdivision.
         f.   Additional bases of approval shall be as further set forth in
Wis. Stat. s. 236.13.
   D.   The Village Plan Commission shall, within 30 days of the date of filing
of the Final Plat with the Village Clerk, recommend approval or rejection of
the Plat and shall transmit the Final Plat and application along with its
recommendation with the Village Board.
   E.   The Village Board shall, within 60 days of the date of filing the Final
Plat and application with the Village Clerk, approve or reject such Plat unless
the time is extended by agreement with the subdivider. If the Plat is rejected,
the reason shall be stated in the minutes of the meeting and a written
statement of the reasons forwarded to the subdivider.
   F.   Failure of the Village Board to take action on the Plat within 60 days,
the time having not been extended and no unsatisfied objections having been
filed, the Plat shall be deemed approved. Upon demand, the Clerk shall affix a
certificate on the face of the plat to that effect.
   G.   When the Village determines to approve the plat, the Clerk shall give
at least 10 days’ prior written notice to the clerk of any municipality whose
boundaries are within 1,000 feet of any portion of the proposed plat, but
failure to give such notice shall not invalidate the plat.
   H.   The subdivider shall prepare the final plat for approval and attached
any required certifications as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 236.11. After the
Final Plat has been approved by the Village Board and required improvements
either installed or a contract insuring their installation filed, the
appropriate surety approved, and the certificate of the Department of
Administration affixed, the Village Clerk shall cause the certificate inscribed
upon the Plat attesting to such approval to be duly executed and the Plat
returned to the subdivider for recording with the County Register of Deeds. The
Register of Deeds shall not record the Plat unless it is offered within 12
months of the last approval by the Village Board and 36 months of its first
approval.
   I   The subdivider shall file ten copies of the approved Final Plat as
recorded with the Village Clerk for distribution to the Village Engineer,
Building Inspector, Assessor and other affected departments for their files.
   J.   If permitted by the Village Board, the approved Preliminary Plat may be
final platted in phases, with each phase encompassing only that portion of the
approved Preliminary Plat which the subdivider proposes to record at one time;
however, it is required that each such phase be final platted and be designated
“a phase” or addition to the approved Preliminary Plat.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-8-2018)
 
Notes
3 3 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-26. REPLATS.
   When it is proposed to replat a recorded subdivision, or part thereof, so as
to change the boundaries of a recorded subdivision, or part thereof, the
subdivider or person wishing to replat shall vacate or alter the recorded plat
as provided in Wis. Stat. ch. 236 Subchapter VIII, except as may be provided by
other applicable provisions of the statutes.
ARTICLE 3 SUBDIVISION CONCEPTUAL PLAN
30-31. GENERAL.
   A conceptual plan shall be required for all subdivision developments.
Mapping for the initial application can be done in any 8 1/2 x 11-inch or
larger format as long as individual map components can be distinguished and the
relationship between map components can be determined.
30-32. SUBDIVISION CONCEPTUAL MAP REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information shall be required for all subdivisions.
   A.   General Location Map: The subdivider shall submit a map showing the
general outlines of existing buildings, land use, and natural features such as
water bodies, wooded areas, wetland, primary and secondary environmental
corridors, isolated natural areas, agricultural land, roads, property
boundaries within 500 feet of the tract and location of the proposed buildings.
This information may be presented on an aerial photograph at a scale of no less
than 1 inch equals 400 feet.
   B.   Inventory of existing resources: Inventory and mapping of existing
resources including the following mapped at a scale of no less than one inch
equals 200 feet:
      1.   Topographic contours at two-foot intervals
      2.   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resource Conservation
Service soil type location and identification of soil type characteristics such
as agricultural capability, depth to bedrock and water table, and suitability
for wastewater disposal systems.
      3.   Hydrologic characteristics, including surface water bodies, flood
plains, groundwater recharge and discharge areas, wetlands, ephemeral ponds,
natural swales, drainage way and steep slopes.
      4.   Land cover on the site, according to general cover type (pasture,
woodland, etc.). The inventory shall include comments on the health and
condition of vegetation.
      5.   Known current and past land use, all buildings and structures on the
land, cultivated areas, brownfields, waste sites and history of waste disposal
practices, paved areas and all encumbrances such as easements or covenants.
      6.   Known critical habitat for threatened, endangered, or protected
species as identified by the Wisconsin DNR or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service.
      7.   Views of the site, including views onto the site from surrounding
roads, public areas and elevated areas, including photographs with a map
indicating where they were taken.
      8.   Known unique geological resources, such as rock outcrops and glacial
features.
      9.   Cultural resources: brief description of historic character of
buildings and structures, historically important landscapes and archeological
features. This includes a review of existing inventories, including those the
State Historical Society of Wisconsin maintains for historic buildings,
archaeological sites, and burial sites.
30-33. SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT YIELD ANALYSIS.
   The subdivider shall submit a table showing the maximum number of dwelling
units permitted according to adopted Land Division Chapter density formulas and
Village zoning requirements, and will compare this total with the number being
proposed. The maximum number of parcels which can be created, including the
parent remnant, is called the development yield and shall equal:
   A.   Conservation subdivision in non-sewer district: Development yield
equals: Gross contiguous acres minus new and existing street right-of-ways;
divide this number by 3 and round to the nearest whole number.
   B.   Conservation subdivision in sewer district:
      1.   Development yield must be consistent with densities specified in Map
7 in Appendix D of the November 2009 “A Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive
Plan for Racine County: 2035” as amended from time to time, and the Rochester
40 or 60 percent open space requirement for conservation subdivisions.
      2.   The Plan Commission may consider and after consideration of the Plan
Commission recommendation, the Village Board may approve modifying the
development yield on a conservation subdivision in the sewer district based on
a PUD or conditional use, or when an environmental corridor would be part of
the development.
   C.   Conventional subdivision in non-sewer district: Development yield
equals: Gross contiguous acres minus new and existing street right-of-ways;
divide this number by 3 and round to the nearest whole number.
   D.   Conventional subdivision in sewer district:
      1.   Development yield must be consistent with densities specified in Map
7 in Appendix D of the November 2009 “A Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive
Plan for Racine County: 2035” as amended from time to time and the Rochester 20
percent open space requirement for conventional subdivisions.
      2.   The Plan Commission may consider, and after consideration of the
Plan Commission recommendation, the Village Board may approve modifying the
development yield on a conventional subdivision in the sewer district based on
a PUD, or when an environmental corridor would be part of the development.
30-34. SITE ANALYSIS AND CONCEPTUAL PLAN.
   A.   Using the mapping and inventory of existing resources (s.
30-32) the development yield analysis (s.
30-33), and standards specified in Article 8, Required Land Improvements, the
subdivider shall submit a conceptual plan for a conventional or conservation
subdivision including at least the following information at a scale of no less
than 1 inch equals 200 feet:
      1.   Boundaries of areas to be developed and proposed street and lot
layout
      2.   Number of housing units proposed and distribution of lot sizes
      3.   Proposed methods for and location of water supply, storm water
management (e.g., best management practices), and sewerage treatment
      4.   List preserved and disturbed natural features and prominent views
      5.   Preliminary development envelopes showing areas for lawn, pavement,
buildings and grading
   B.   For a conservation subdivision, the Conservation Subdivision
Requirements in Article 7 and the design principles in Appendix B Conservation
Subdivision Design Process shall also be used in developing the conceptual plan
and the following additional information included in the plan:
      1.   Open space areas which are to remain undeveloped and proposed trail
location
      2.   Proposed methods for ownership and management of common open space
ARTICLE 4 PRELIMINARY PLAT
30-41. GENERAL.
   A preliminary plat shall be required for all subdivisions and shall be based
upon a survey by a professional land surveyor at a map scale of not more than
100 feet to the inch and shall show correctly on its face the following
information:  4
   A.   Title or name under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded.
Such title shall not be the same or similar to a previously approved and
recorded plat, unless it is an addition to a previously recorded plat and is so
stated on the plat;
   B.   The location of the proposed subdivision by government lot, quarter-
section, section, township, range, county and state;
   C.   General location sketch showing the location of the subdivision within
the U.S. Public Land Survey section;
   D.   Date, graphic scale and north arrow;
   E.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and land surveyor
preparing the plat;
   F.   Entire area contiguous to the proposed plat owned or controlled by the
subdivider even though only a portion of said area is proposed for immediate
development.
 
Notes
4 4 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-42. PRELIMINARY PLAT DATA.
   All preliminary plats shall show the following:
   A.   Exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the proposed
subdivision referenced to a corner established in U.S. Public Land Survey and
the total acreage encompassed thereby;
   B.   Location, right-of-way width and names of all existing streets, alleys,
or other public ways, easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way and all
section and quarter section lines within the exterior boundaries of the plat or
immediately adjacent thereto;
   C.   Location and names of any adjacent subdivisions, parks and cemeteries
and owners of record of abutting unplatted lands;
   D.   Locations of all existing property boundary lines, structures, drives,
streams and watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, wooded areas, railroad tracks
and other similar significant natural and man- made features within the tract
being subdivided or immediately adjacent thereto;
   E.   Location, width and names of all proposed public and private rights-of-
way and easements;
   F.   Approximate dimensions of all lots together with proposed lot and block
numbers and street setback lines;
   G.   Location, approximate dimensions and size of any sites to be dedicated
for parks, playgrounds, drainage ways, or other public use or which are to be
used for group housing, shopping centers, church sites, or other private uses;
   H.   Approximate radii of all curves;
   I.   Existing zoning on and adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
   J.   Any proposed lake and stream access clearly indicating the location of
the proposed subdivision in relation to the access;
   K.   Legal description of the property;
   L.   Also, attach the following to the Plat:
      1.   Name of school district;
      2.   Proposed development yield;
   M.   For a conservation subdivision attach:
      1.   Conservation subdivision theme;
      2.   Management plan for restoration of land and long term management of
open space.
30-43. COVENANTS.
   The Village Board or the Village Plan Commission may require submission of a
draft of protective covenants whereby the subdivider intends to regulate land
use in the proposed subdivision, and otherwise protect the proposed
development. The Village Attorney shall review all covenants and shall approve
covenants as to form, and where easements or other rights are granted to the
Village therein, shall also review the content thereof.  5
 
Notes
5 5 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-44. PRELIMINARY GRADING AND STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   All preliminary plats shall show the following on a separate sheet or
sheets:
   A.   The exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision along with the
proposed lots, lot numbers and drainage easements;
   B.   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet where
the slope of the ground surface is less than ten percent, and of not more than
five feet where the slope of the ground surface is ten percent or more.
Elevations shall be marked on such contours based on National Geodetic Datum
(mean sea level) where available;
   C.   Water elevations of adjoining lakes and streams at the date of the
submittal and approximate high and low water elevations, all referred to mean
sea level datum where available, together with any proposed land and stream
improvements or relocations;
   D.   Floodplain limits and the contour line lying a vertical distance of two
feet above the elevation of the 100-year recurrence interval flood, or where
such data is not available, five feet above the elevation of the maximum flood
of record;
   E.   Location of all existing streets, alleys, or other public ways,
easements, railroad and utility rights- of-way.
   F.   Type, width and elevation of any existing street pavements within the
exterior boundaries of the plat or immediately adjacent thereto together with
any legally established centerline elevations, all to mean sea level datum
where available;
   G.   Location, size and invert elevation of any existing sanitary or storm
sewers, culverts and drain pipes, the location of manholes, catch basins,
hydrants, power and telephone poles, and the location and size of any existing
water and gas mains within the exterior boundaries of the plat or immediately
adjacent thereto. If no sanitary or storm sewers or water mains are located on
or immediately adjacent to the lands being platted, the nearest such sewers or
water mains which might be extended to serve such lands shall be indicated by
their direction and distance from the nearest exterior boundary of the plat and
their size and invert elevations;
   H.   Preliminary street grading showing proposed streets with their proposed
elevations and grades;
   I.   Preliminary storm water management features showing proposed swales,
storm sewers and storm water basins. Sizes of proposed storm sewers and storm
water basins shall be shown and the supporting calculations included in a
report to be filed as part of the preliminary data.
   J.   Any proposed lake and stream improvement or relocation;
   K.   Soil, type and boundaries as shown on the detailed operational soil
survey maps prepared by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service;
   L.   Location of soil boring tests, where required by law. The number of
such tests shall be adequate to portray the character of the soils and the
depths of bedrock and groundwater from the natural, undisturbed surface. To
accomplish this purpose, a minimum of one test per three acres shall be made
initially. The results of such tests shall be submitted along with the
Preliminary Plan;
   M.   Where a subdivision is not served by public sanitary sewer, soil
borings and tests shall be made to determine the suitability of the site for
the use of onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems. Such borings and tests
shall meet the requirements of Chapters SPS 383 and 385 of the Wisconsin
Administrative Code. The location of the borings shall be shown on the
Preliminary Plat and the findings, with respect to the suitability of the site
for the use of onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems, shall be set forth
in a separate report submitted with the plat.
   N.   Wetland limits as verified by the Wisconsin Department of Natural
Resources, SEWRPC or a DNR certified wetland biologist;
   O.   Proposed erosion and sedimentation control practices;
   P.   Proposed measures to protect areas of significant trees.
30-45. TESTING.
   The Village Plan Commission, upon recommendation of the Village Engineer,
may recommend that borings be made in specified areas to ascertain subsurface
soil, rock and water conditions, including depth to bedrock and depth to
groundwater table. Where the subdivision will not be served by public sanitary
sewer service, the provisions of the Wisconsin Administrative Code shall be
complied with; and the appropriate data submitted with the preliminary plat and
plan.
ARTICLE 5 FINAL PLAT
30-51. GENERAL.
   A final plat prepared by a professional land surveyor licensed by the State
of Wisconsin is required for all subdivisions. It shall comply in all respects
with the requirements of Wis. Stat. s. 236.20. 6
 
Notes
6 6 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-52. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   The plat shall show correctly on its face, in addition to the information
required by Wis. Stat. s. 236.20, the following:
   A.   Railroad rights-of-way within and abutting the plat;
   B.   Setbacks or building lines;
   C.   Utility and/or drainage easements;
   D.   All lands dedicated to the public or reserved for the common use of
property owners within the plat and the method of ownership of that common use;
and
   E.   Special restrictions required by the Village Plan Commission relating
to access control along public ways, delineation of floodland limits, or to the
provision of planting strips.
30-53. DEED RESTRICTIONS.
   The Village Board may require that deed restrictions be filed with the final
plat.
30-54. SURVEY ACCURACY.
   The survey shall meet or exceed the accuracy requirement set forth in Wis.
Stat. s. 236.15(2). 7
 
Notes
7 7 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-55. SURVEYING AND MONUMENTING.
   All final plats shall meet all of the surveying and monumenting requirements
of Wis. Stat. s. 236.15.
30-56. STATE PLANE COORDINATE SYSTEM. 8
   Where the plat is located within a U.S. Public Land Survey quarter-section,
the corners of which have been relocated, monumented and coordinated by the
Wisconsin Department of Transportation, the Southeastern Wisconsin Regional
Planning Commission, or any County, City, Village or Town, the plat shall be
tied directly to one of the section or quarter corners so relocated, monumented
and coordinated. The exact grid bearing and distance of such tie shall be
determined by field measurements, and the material and Wisconsin state plane
coordinates of the monument marking the relocated section or quarter corner, to
which the plat is tied, shall be indicated on the plat. The grid bearing and
distance of the tie shall be determined by a closed survey meeting the error or
closure herein specified for the survey of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. All distances and bearings shall be referenced directly to the
Wisconsin Coordinate System of 1927, South Zone, and adjusted to the control
survey.
 
Notes
8 8 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-57. CERTIFICATES.
   All final plats shall provide all the certificates required by Wis. Stat. s.
236.21. The surveyor's certificate shall contain a description of the survey
beginning at the U.S. Public Land Survey corner to which the survey is tied.
30-58. RECORDATION. 9
   The final plat shall only be recorded with the County Register of Deeds
after the certificates have been signed by the Administrator, Division of
Intergovernmental Relations, Department of Administration, the Village
President and Village Clerk upon the approval by the Village Board, the
surveyor, and those authorized to sign the certificates required by Wis. Stat.
s. 236.21, on the face of the plat. The plat shall be recorded within the time
limits set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 236.25.
 
Notes
9 9 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
ARTICLE 6 MINOR LAND DIVISION – CERTIFIED SURVEY MAP
30-61 CERTIFIED SURVEY MAP REQUIRED.
   A certified survey map (CSM) prepared by a professional land surveyor shall
be required for all "minor land divisions" when it is proposed: 10
   A.   To divide land into at least two but not more than four parcels or
building sites including the parent remnant, any one of which is less than 35
acres in size, within a five year period; or
   B.   To create by land division not more than four parcels or building sites
within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the exterior boundaries of
a block, lot, or outlot.
   C.   Land Division by Metes and Bounds Description. 11
   Land divisions that do not require a Plat or CSM pursuant to this Chapter
must be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator to ensure compliance with this
Chapter,
Chapter 35, Planning and Zoning and the other land use chapters of this
Municipal Code.
 
Notes
10 10 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
11 11 Amended 6-8-2015, Ordinance #2015-1
30-62. PRELIMINARY MEETING.
   It is recommended that the subdivider meet with the Zoning Administrator,
and then the Village Plan Commission prior to submitting a conceptual plan to
learn the objectives of the Land Use Plan and Land Division Chapter and
understand how these will influence the planned development. It is also
recommended to meet with Village Engineer. The Zoning Administrator will
provide information on zoning, driveway access, sanitary requirements,
floodplains, environmental corridors and wetlands on the site. It is also
recommended that members of the Commission plan a site visit with the
subdivider as part of a duly noticed public meeting prior to submission of the
conceptual plan.
30-63. CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The subdivider shall prepare a conceptual development plan including general
location map, inventory of existing resources, development yield analysis and
proposed development.
   A.   General Location Map (required for all CSMs): The subdivider shall
submit a map showing the general outlines of existing buildings, land use, and
natural features such as water bodies, wooded areas, wetland, primary and
secondary environmental corridors, isolated natural areas, agricultural land,
roads, property boundaries within 500 feet of the tract and location of the
proposed buildings. This information may be presented on an aerial photograph
at a sale of no less than one inch equals 400 feet.
   B.   Inventory of existing resources: The following inventory and mapping of
existing resources shall be included when creating three or more parcels
including the parent remnant. These should be at a scale of no less than one
inch equals 200 feet:
      1.   Topographic contours at two-foot intervals;
      2.   U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resource Conservation
Service soil type location and identification of soil type characteristics such
as agricultural capability, depth to bedrock and water table, and suitability
for wastewater disposal systems;
      3.   Hydrologic characteristics, including surface water bodies,
floodplains, groundwater recharge and discharge areas, wetlands, ephemeral
ponds, natural swales, drainage way and steep slopes;
      4.   Land cover on the site, according to general cover type (pasture,
woodland, etc.). The inventory shall include comments on the health and
condition of the vegetation;
      5.   Known current and past land use, all buildings and structures on the
land, cultivated areas, brownfields, waste sites and history of waste disposal
practices, paved areas and all encumbrances such as easements or covenants;
      6.   Known critical habitat for threatened, endangered, or protected
species;
      7.   Views of the site, including views onto the site from surrounding
roads, public areas and elevated areas, including photographs with a map
indicating where they were taken;
      8.   Unique geological resources, such as rock outcrops and glacial
features;
      9.   Known cultural resources: brief description of historic character of
buildings and structures, historically important landscapes, and archaeological
features. This includes a review of existing inventories, including those the
State Historical Society of Wisconsin maintains for historic buildings,
archaeological sites, and burial sites;
   C.   Development Yield Analysis: The subdivider shall submit a table showing
the maximum number of dwelling units that would be permitted according to the
adopted Land Division Chapter density formula and the Village Planning and
Zoning chapters and will compare this total with the number being proposed.
      1.   Non-sewer district: The maximum number of parcels that can be
created in the non-sewer district, including the parent remnant, is called the
development yield and shall equal: Gross contiguous acres minus new and
existing street rights-of-way; divide this number by 3 and round to the nearest
whole number.
      2.   Sewer district: The maximum number of parcels which can be created
in the sewer district is determined by densities specified in Map 7 in Appendix
D of the November 2009 “A Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive Plan for Racine
County: 2035”as amended from time to time, and the Zoning chapters.
   D.   Using the general map location, inventory of existing resources, the
development yield analysis and standards specified in Article 8, Required Land
Improvements, the subdivider shall submit a conceptual development plan
including at least the following information at a scale of no less than 1 inch
equals 200 feet:
      1.   Open space areas indicating which areas are to remain undeveloped
and any proposed trail locations;
      2.   Boundaries of areas to be developed and proposed street and lot
layout;
      3.   Number of housing units proposed and distribution of lot sizes;
      4.   Proposed methods for and location of water supply, storm water
management (e.g., best management practices);
      5.   Proposed method for sewerage treatment. Note that all new
development in the sanitary sewer district shall connect to the district when a
sewer line exists on the parcel road frontage. Alternate treatment systems,
which meet the requirements of Chapters SPS 383 and 385 of the Wisconsin
Administrative Code, may be allowed when such a line does not exist or when a
line has not been approved for installation by the Western Racine County
Sewerage District. Also see Chapter 10 of this Municipal Code;
      6.   Inventory of preserved and disturbed natural features and prominent
views;
      7.   Preliminary development envelopes showing areas for lawn, pavement,
buildings and grading;
      8.   The Plan Commission may also require the submission of a sketch
plan, drawn to scale, showing the entire contiguous holdings owned or
controlled by the subdivider and identifying proposed future development of the
parcel including general street and parcel locations and potential effects of
limitations on neighboring lands.
30-64. FILING OF CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Twelve copies of the plan shall be submitted, along with a letter of
explanation, to the Village Clerk at least 20 days prior to the meeting date of
the Village Plan Commission in which action is desired. Within two days of
receipt, the Clerk will forward copies to the Village Engineer, the Zoning
Administrator, the Village Board members, and the Village Plan Commission
members.
30-65. CSM APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   The subdivider shall prepare the certified survey map in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and Wis. Stat. s. 236.34 as amended from time to
time, and shall file an electronic copy of the map and at least 14 copies of
the map and the letter of application with the Village Clerk. 12
   A.   The Village Clerk shall, within two normal workdays after filing,
transmit the copies of the map and letter of application to the Village Plan
Commission members, Village Board members, and Village Engineer.
   B.   Village staff will assist the subdivider in identifying known
floodplains, wetlands, environmental corridors, shoreland-wetlands, and
shorelands.
   C.   Objecting and approving authority reviews and recommendations shall be
transmitted to the Village Plan Commission and Village Board within 20 days
from the date the map is filed. The map shall be reviewed by the Village Plan
Commission for conformance with this chapter, Appendix A of this Chapter
regarding Design Standards, the Rochester Land Use Plan and all other
ordinances, rules, regulations, comprehensive plans and comprehensive plan
components.
   D.   The Village Plan Commission shall, within 30 days from the date of
filing of the CSM, recommend approval, conditional approval, or rejection of
the CSM and shall transmit the map along with its recommendations to the
Village Board.
   E.   The Village Board shall approve, approve conditionally and thereby
require resubmission of a corrected certified survey map, or reject such
certified survey map within 90 days from the date of filing of the map unless
the time is extended by agreement with the subdivider. If the map is rejected,
the reason shall be stated in the minutes of the meeting and a written
statement forwarded to the subdivider. If the map is approved, the Village
Board shall cause the Village Clerk to so certify on the face of the original
map and return the map to the subdivider.
   F.   The subdivider shall file one hard copy and one digital copy of the
certified survey map as recorded with the Village Clerk for distribution to the
Village Engineer, the Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector, Assessor and
other affected Village officials for their files.
 
Notes
12 12 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-66. CSM INFORMATION.
   A.   The map shall show correctly on its face, in addition to the
information required by Wis. Stat. s. 236.34, the following:
      1.   All existing buildings, navigability determination, drainage
ditches, flood plains and other features pertinent to proper land division;
      2.   Location of environmental corridors, woodlands, isolated natural
resources, wetlands and ephemeral ponds as delineated by SEWRPC;
      3.   Agricultural soil capability map; available from SEWRPC (if
appropriate);
      4.   Historic, cultural and archaeological features;
      5.   Setbacks or building lines;
      6.   Easements for sewers, water mains, storm water management, access
ways, agricultural drainage tiles and all other utilities;
      7.   Existing contours when required by the Village Engineer at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet where the slope of the ground surface is
less than ten percent and of not more than five feet where the slope of the
ground surface is ten percent or more. Elevations shall be marked on such
contours based on National Geodetic Vertical Datum (mean sea level) as
available. This requirement may be waived if the parcel(s) are fully developed;
      8.   Proposed lot drainage as may be required by the Village Engineer or
Village Plan Commission;
      9.   Name and address of the owner, subdivider and surveyor;
      10.   Connection point to public sewer line or, if an onsite sanitary
system has been approved, show location of soil borings. Attach a report with
findings on suitability of the site for an onsite sanitary system including
tests as directed by Wis. Admin. Code chs. SPS 383 and 385;
      11.   Location of existing onsite sewerage treatment systems.
   B.   The Plan Commission may recommend to the Village Board and the Village
Board may require:
      1.   For development within or within 200 feet of a primary or secondary
environmental corridor, that a qualified ecological service provider provide a
habitat assessment and a plan to minimize adverse effects on vegetation and
wildlife within the corridor. When the affected corridor land is owned by
another party(s), the assessment and plan will be waived if the owner(s) does
not grant permission. At the discretion of the Plan Commission, similar
information may be required for isolated natural resources. These corridors and
resources are identified in “A Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive Plan for
Racine County: 2035” on Map VI-1.
      2.   That the entire area contiguous to the land encompassed within the
proposed CSM and owned or controlled by the subdivider be included in the CSM
even though only a portion of said area is proposed for immediate development.
      3.   The submission of a sketch plan, drawn to scale, showing the entire
contiguous holdings owned or controlled by the subdivider and identifying
proposed future development of the parcel, including general street and parcel
locations. The Village Clerk shall attach a copy of the sketch plan to the CSM
and retain both in the Village files.
30-67. STATE PLANE COORDINATE SYSTEM. 1
   Where the map is located within a U.S. Public Land Survey quarter-section,
the corners of which have been relocated, monumented and coordinated by the
Wisconsin Department of Transportation, the Southeastern Wisconsin Regional
Planning Commission, or any County, City, Village, or Town, the map shall be
tied directly to one of the section or quarter corners so relocated, monumented
and coordinated. The exact grid bearing and distance of such tie shall be
determined by field measurements, and the material and Wisconsin state plane
coordinates of the monument marking the relocated section or quarter corner to
which the map is tied shall be indicated on the map. All distances and bearings
shall be referenced to the Wisconsin Coordinate System of 1927, South Zone, and
adjusted to the control survey.
 
Notes
1 13 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-68. CERTIFICATES.
   The surveyor's certificate shall contain a description of the survey
beginning at the U.S. Public Land Survey corner to which the survey is tied.
The Village Board, after a recommendation by the reviewing agencies, shall
certify its approval on the face of the map. In addition, dedication of streets
and other public areas shall require the owner's certificate and the
mortgagee's certificate in substantially the same form as required by Wis.
Stat. s. 236.21(2)(a).
30-69. RECORDATION. 14
   The subdivider shall record the map with the Racine County Register of Deeds
within 12 months of its last approval by the Village Board and within 36 months
of its first approval.
 
Notes
14 14 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
ARTICLE 7 CONSERVATION AND CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
Sections
30-71 through
30-75 include requirements that apply to conservation subdivisions.
30-71. GENERAL.
   Conservation Subdivisions shall identify a conservation theme or themes.
This theme shall be identified at the time of the initial application.
Conservation themes may include, but are not limited to forest stewardship,
water quality preservation, farmland preservation, natural habitat restoration,
view shed preservation, or archaeological and historic properties preservation.
The Plan Commission will work with the developer to specify which areas shall
be preserved. Refer to Appendix B, Conservation Subdivision Design Process, for
additional considerations of the design process.
30-72. RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   A residential conservation subdivision in the sewer district shall be
done as a conditional use as set forth in the Village zoning chapters.
Consistent with the 40 percent open space requirement in Section
30-74, the Conditional Use will establish minimum lot size, principal building
setbacks, accessory building setbacks, and maximum building height.
   B.   A conservation subdivision in the non-sewer district shall be zoned R-
8, R-9, A-2, or C-2. Lot sizes less than 40,000 square feet may be permitted
under conditional use R-8, R-9, A-2 or C-2 zoning. In such an instance, the
developer and Village of Rochester Plan Commission shall establish minimum lot
size, principal building setbacks, accessory building setbacks, rear lot line,
and maximum building height. In all cases, the conservation subdivision
development yield analysis in Section
30-33.A. and 60 percent open space requirement in Section
30-74.B. shall be maintained.
   C.   Lots shall be configured to minimize the amount of impervious surfaces.
Maximum Lot Coverage equals 35 percent (includes buildings and other impervious
surfaces).
   D.   Maximum Building Height equals 35 feet.
   E.   Access to the majority of lots shall be by interior local streets with
the exception of existing farmsteads to be preserved that have an existing
driveway on an arterial street.
   F.   Lots shall be configured to minimize the amount of road length required
for the subdivision.
   G.   Development envelopes shall be configured to minimize loss of
woodlands. However, when the objective is to preserve prime farmland for
agricultural use, dwellings may be located within the woods, provided that no
more than 20 percent of a single lot is cleared for the construction of a
dwelling, driveway, garage, storage building, well and private onsite waste
treatment system.
   H.   If agricultural uses are being maintained, lots shall be configured in
a manner that maximizes the usable area remaining for such agricultural uses
with appropriate buffers between agricultural uses and residential structures.
   I.   All lots within a neighborhood shall abut open space on at least one
side. A local street may separate lots from the open space.
   J.   Lots shall be oriented around one or more of the following:
      1.   A central green or square.
      2.   A physical amenity such as a meadow, a stand of trees, or some other
natural or restored feature.
   K.   Development envelopes should not be located on ridges, hilltops, along
peripheral public roads, or in other visually prominent areas.
   L.   Residential structures should be oriented to maximize solar gain in the
winter months.
   M.   A 30-foot native vegetative buffer shall be maintained around open
water areas, unless a specific common beach or grassed area is identified.
   N.   Connectivity of environmental corridors, trails and green spaces, as
well as the conservation subdivision themes of adjacent properties shall be
considered in the design of the development in accordance with Appendix B,
Conservation Subdivision Design Process.
30-73 RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER SITING STANDARDS.
   A.   All residential lots and dwellings shall be grouped into clusters. Each
cluster shall contain no more than 20 dwelling units and not less than five
units.
   B.   Residential clusters shall be located to minimize negative impacts on
the natural, scenic and cultural resources of the site and to minimize
conflicts between incompatible uses.
   C.   Residential clusters shall avoid encroaching on rare plant communities;
or threatened, endangered, or protected species habitat identified by the
Department of Natural Resources.
   D.   Whenever possible, open space shall connect with existing or potential
open space lands on adjoining parcels and local or regional recreational
trails.
   E.   Residential clusters should be sited to achieve the following goals, to
the extent practicable:
      1.   Minimize impacts to prime farmland soils and large tracts of land in
agricultural use and avoid interference with normal agricultural practices.
      2.   Minimize disturbance to woodlands, wetlands, grasslands and mature
trees.
      3.   Prevent downstream impacts due to runoff through adequate onsite
storm water management practices.
      4.   Protect scenic views of open land from adjacent roads. Visual impact
should be minimized through use of landscaping and/or other features.
      5.   Protect archaeological sites and existing historic buildings or
incorporate them through adaptive reuse.
   F.   Landscaping around the cluster may be necessary to reduce offsite views
of residences.
30-74. OPEN SPACE DESIGN.
   A.   The minimum common open space required shall be owned and maintained
under one of the alternatives listed in Section
30-75, as approved by the Village. The uses within the open space may be
accessible to the residents of the development. These uses may also be
available to the general public providing the proper approvals are received.
The required open space shall be undivided and restricted in perpetuity from
future development, as specified in Section
30-75.
   B   Common open space shall be designated as part of the development. The
minimum required common open space is 40 percent of net buildable acres inside
the sewer district and 60 percent of net buildable acres outside the sewer
district.
   C.   Following is an open space conservation ranking in order of
significance. The areas to be preserved shall be identified on a case-by-case
basis in an effort to conserve and provide the best opportunities to restore
and enlarge the best quality natural features of each particular site.
      1.   First priority will be given to intact natural communities, rare and
endangered species, environmental corridors, natural and restored prairies,
significant historic and archaeological properties, and steep slopes.
      2.   Second priority will be given to areas providing some plant and
wildlife habitat and open spaces values.
      3.   Third priority will be given to areas providing little habitat but
providing view shed, recreation, or a sense of open space.
   D.   Privately held buildings or structures may be located within the open
space area provided they are accessory to the use of the open space. The area
shall be counted toward the overall open space percentage requirement.
   E.   Septic systems and potable water systems may be located within the open
space. The area shall be counted toward the overall open space percentage
requirement.
   F.   Road rights-of-way shall not be counted towards the required minimum
open space.
   G.   No more than 50 percent of the required open space may consist of water
bodies, ponds, flood plain, or wetlands.
   H.   A minimum of 80 percent of the non-agricultural open space shall be
maintained for plant and wildlife habitat. That portion of open space designed
to provide plant and animal habitat shall be kept as intact as possible. Trails
shall be designed to avoid fragmenting these areas.
   I.   Accessible open space in upland areas shall be available for
recreational uses such as trails, play fields, or community gardens but should
be designed in a manner that avoids adversely impacting archeological sites.
   J.   A pathway system connecting open space accessible to neighborhood
residents, and connecting these areas to neighborhood streets and to planned or
developed trails on adjacent parcels shall be identified in the PLAN.
30-75. OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE.
   A.   Alternatives. The designated common open space and common facilities
may be owned and managed by one or a combination of the following:
      1.   A homeowners’ association.
      2.   A condominium association established in accordance with the
Condominium Ownership Act, Wis. Stat. ch. 703.
      3.   A nonprofit conservation organization.
      4.   The Village or another government body empowered to hold an interest
in real property.
      5.   An individual who will use the land for open space purposes as
provided by a conservation easement, e.g., agriculture.
   B.   Conservation Easement. Common open space and/or common facilities shall
be subject to a conservation easement conveyed to a qualified holder, as
defined in Wis. Stat. s. 700.40 (Uniform Conservation Easement Act). The holder
(s) of the easement shall have responsibility for inspecting to ensure
compliance. The easement holder will negotiate a reasonable annual charge with
the Homeowner Association for the annual inspection. The Village of Rochester
shall have a third party enforcement right, which shall be documented in the
easement documents.
   C.   Homeowners’ Association. A homeowners’ association shall be established
if the common open space and/or common facilities are proposed to be owned by a
homeowners’ association. Membership in the homeowners’ association is mandatory
for all purchasers of homes in the development and their successors. The
homeowners’ association bylaws, guaranteeing continuing maintenance of the open
space and other common facilities, and the declaration of covenants, conditions
and restrictions of the homeowners’ association shall be submitted for approval
to the Village as part of the information required for the Preliminary Plat.
   The homeowners’ association bylaws or the declaration of covenants,
conditions and restrictions of the homeowners’ association shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The legal description of the common land;
      2.   A description of common facilities;
      3.   The restrictions placed upon the use and enjoyment of the lands or
facilities;
      4.   Persons or entities entitled to enforce the restrictions;
      5.   A mechanism to assess and enforce the common expenses for the land
or facilities including upkeep and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes and
insurance premiums;
      6.   A mechanism for resolving disputes among the owners or association
members;
      7.   The conditions and timing of the transfer of ownership and control
of land or facilities to the association;
      8.   Any other matter the developer deems appropriate.
   D.   Condominium Associations. If the common open space and facilities are
to be held under the Condominium Ownership Act, Wis. Stat. ch. 703, the
condominium instruments shall identify the restrictions placed upon the use and
enjoyment of the common open space. All common open space shall be held as a
“common element” as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 703.01(2).
   E.   Nonprofit Conservation Organization. If the common open space and/or
common facilities are to be held by a nonprofit conservation organization, the
organization must be acceptable to the Village. The conveyance to the nonprofit
conservation organization must contain appropriate provisions for succession to
another nonprofit conservation organization or other acceptable entity in the
event that the organization becomes unwilling or unable to uphold the terms of
the conveyance.
   F.   Public Dedication of Open Space and Streets. The Village may accept the
dedication of fee title or dedication of a conservation easement to the common
space as set forth in this Chapter. The Village may accept the common open
space provided:
      1.   The common open space is accessible to the residents of the Village;
      2.   The Village agrees to and has access to maintain the common open
space;
      3.   Streets or other public ways which have been designated on a duly
adopted official map or element of the Village comprehensive plan shall be
dedicated or reserved by the subdivider to the Village. The street or public
way shall be made a part of the plat in the locations and dimensions indicated
in the comprehensive plan and as set forth in this Chapter.
   G.   Individual Ownership. An individual may hold fee title to the land, or
the owners of the land included in the plat may hold fee title in undivided
shares, while a nonprofit conservation organization or other qualified
organization holds a conservation easement prescribing the acceptable uses for
the common open space.
   H.   Maintenance Plan. Every conservation subdivision must include a plan
that provides evidence of a means to properly manage the common open space in
perpetuity and evidence of the long-term means to properly manage and maintain
all common facilities, including any storm water facilities. The plan shall be
approved by the Village prior to final plat approval.
      1.   The plan shall do the following:
         a.   Designate the ownership of the open space and common facilities
in accordance with this section.
         b.   Establish necessary regular and periodic operation and
maintenance responsibilities.
         c.   Estimate staffing needs, insurance requirements and other
associated costs and define the means for funding the same on an ongoing basis.
         d.   Include a land stewardship plan specifically focusing on the
long-term management of common open space lands. The land stewardship plan
shall include a narrative, based on the site analysis, describing:
            (1)   Existing conditions including all natural, cultural, historic
and scenic elements in the landscape;
            (2)   The proposed end state for each common open space area; and
the measures proposed for achieving the end state;
            (3)   Proposed restoration measures, including: measures for
correcting increasingly destructive conditions, such as erosion; and measures
for restoring historic features and habitats or ecosystems;
            (4)   The operations needed for maintaining the stability of the
resources, including: mowing schedules; weed control; planting schedules;
invasives control; clearing and cleanup;
            (5)   If ownership is vested in a homeowners’ association or
condominium association, the association must contract with a qualified
conservation organization or ecological services contractor to implement the
management plan. It is highly recommended that the association contract with
the non- profit easement holder to implement the management plan.
            (6)   The Village would enforce the management plan if needed. At
the Village’s discretion, the applicant may be required to place in escrow
sufficient funds for the maintenance and operation costs of common facilities
for a maximum of one year.
      2.   In the event that the organization established to own and maintain
the open space and common facilities, or any successor organization, fails to
maintain all or a portion of the common facilities in reasonable order and
condition in accordance with the maintenance plan and all applicable laws,
rules and regulations, the Village may serve written notice upon such
organization and upon the residents and owners of the open space and common
facilities, setting forth the manner in which the organization has failed to
maintain the common facilities in reasonable condition. Such notice shall set
forth the nature of corrections required and the time within which the
corrections shall be made.
         a.   Upon failure to comply within the time specified, the
organization, or any successor organization, shall be considered in violation
of this Chapter, in which case the bond, if any, may be forfeited, and any
permits may be revoked or suspended.
         b.   The Village may enter the premises and take corrective action.
         c.   The costs of corrective action by the Village shall be assessed
ratably, in accordance with tax assessments, against the properties that have
the right of enjoyment of the common facilities and shall become a lien on said
properties.
         d.   The Village, at the time of entering upon such common facilities
for the purpose of maintenance, shall file a notice of such lien in the office
of the County Register of Deeds upon the properties affected by such lien.
      3.   Management plans can be amended by the owner with the approval of
the Village Board and easement holder.
30-76. RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS.
Sections
30-76 and
30-77 include requirements which apply to conventional subdivisions.
   A.   A conventional subdivision in the sewer district shall meet the
requirements set forth in the zoning chapters for the desired zoning district,
including minimum lot size, principal building setbacks, accessory building
setbacks and maximum building height.
   B.   A conventional subdivision in the unsewered district shall meet the
requirements set forth in
Chapter 35 for the desired zoning district, including minimum lot size,
principal building setbacks, accessory building setbacks, rear lot line and
maximum building height. In all cases, the conventional subdivision development
yield analysis in Section
30-33.C. shall be maintained.
   C.   Lots should be configured to minimize the amount of impervious
surfaces. Maximum Lot Coverage equals 35 percent (includes buildings and other
impervious surfaces).
   D.   The Maximum Building Height is specified in the zoning district
regulations.
   E.   Access to the majority of lots should be by interior local streets.
   F.   Lots should be configured to minimize the amount of road length
required for the subdivision.
   G.   Development envelopes should be configured to minimize loss of
woodlands. However, dwellings may be located within woodlands provided that no
more than 20 percent of a single lot is cleared for the construction of a
dwelling, driveway, garage, storage building, well and, if necessary, a private
on-site waste treatment system.
   H.   A 30-foot native vegetation buffer shall be maintained around open
water areas, or if the land is in the Shoreland Zoning District, as specified
in
Chapter 36.
   I.   Connectivity of environmental corridors, trails and green spaces shall
be considered in the design of the development.
30-77. RESIDENTIAL SITING STANDARDS.
Sections
30-76 and
30-77 include requirements which apply to conventional subdivisions.
   A.   Residences should be located to minimize negative impacts on the
natural, scenic and cultural resources of the site and to minimize incompatible
uses.
   B.   Residences shall avoid encroaching on rare plant communities; or
threatened, endangered, or protected species habitat identified by the
Department of Natural Resources.
   C.   Whenever possible, natural areas on each lot should connect with
existing or potential open space lands on adjoining parcels.
   D.   Residences should be sited to achieve the following goals, to the
extent practicable:
      1.   Minimize impacts to prime farmland soils and large tracts of land in
agricultural use and avoid interference with normal agricultural practices.
      2.   Minimize disturbance to woodlands, wetlands, grasslands and mature
trees.
      3.   Prevent downstream impacts due to runoff through adequate on-site
storm water management practices. (See Chapters 31 and 32.)
      4.   Protect scenic views of open land from adjacent roads. Visual impact
should be minimized through use of landscaping and/or other features.
      5.   Protect archaeological sites and existing historic buildings or
incorporate them through adaptive reuse.
30-78. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
Section
30-78 includes requirements that apply to both conservation and conventional
subdivisions.
   A.   Minimize the use of curb and gutter and maximize the use of open
swales.
   B.   Roof down spouts should drain to porous surfaces.
   C.   Comply with applicable standards of Wis. Admin. Code ss. NR216 and
NR151. See also Chapters 31 and
32.
   D.   Landscape plantings and rain gardens should be used to increase
infiltration and decrease runoff.
   E.   Natural open drainage systems shall be preserved.
ARTICLE 8. REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS.
30-81. GENERAL.
   No division of land shall be approved, or construction or installation of
improvements begun, without receiving a statement signed by the Village Clerk
certifying that the improvements described in the subdivision's plans and
specifications, together with agreements, meet the minimum requirements of all
ordinances and design standards of the Village. The subdivider shall be
responsible for the cost of all improvements and for any necessary alterations
of any existing utilities which, by virtue of the plat or CSM, fall within the
public right-of-way.
30-82. STREET PLANS, IMPROVEMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   The division of land, including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade and location of all streets, alleys, or other land to be dedicated for
public use, shall conform to the highway system plan of the governing body
responsible for the streets, and the comprehensive plan or plan component of
the Village. They shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets.
   A.   Street improvements are required to be constructed in conformity with
the Design Standards adopted by the Village.
   B.   Final surface for public streets must be installed no later than 12
months after the binder course. 15
   C.   All minimum standards established are intended to be construed solely
as minimums. Additional standards may be required depending on the topography,
soil and overall geological or special conditions of each individual parcel
being developed. The standards for streets shall be in conformance with the
Design Standards established by the Village. The Village Engineer may recommend
and the Village Plan Commission may require standards beyond the minimums set
forth when geological conditions dictate the necessity for additional
standards.
   D.   All right-of-way widths shall conform to the dimensions shown in Design
Standards adopted by the Village and set forth in the appendix hereto.
   E.   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by non-local traffic
will be discouraged, without impairing overall traffic or utility efficiency.
   F.   Alleys in residential districts are not permitted, except where deemed
necessary and at the discretion of the Village Plan Commission.
   G.   Where an existing dedicated or platted half-street is adjacent to the
tract being subdivided, the other half of the street shall be dedicated by the
subdivider. The platting of new half-streets shall not be permitted.
   H.   Temporary termination of the streets intended to be extended at a later
date shall be accomplished with a temporary cul-de-sac in accordance with the
standards set forth above, or by construction of a temporary, paved, "T"
intersection, 33 feet in width and 33 feet in length abutting the right-of-way
lines of the access street on each side, including appropriate easements
outside of the road right-of-way.
   I.   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of the existing streets. Existing street names must be continued when
streets are extended wherever possible. Each street name shall be approved by
the Village Board.
   J.   Provisions should be made for serving lots abutting primary, major and
arterial streets and highways by the use of restriction of access only to
internal subdivision streets. Frontage streets should be avoided.
   K.   Streets are the preferred routing of the overland emergency flood way.
   L.   An approval letter from the jurisdiction controlling driveway access
shall be provided.
   M.   Streets should intersect each other at as nearly right angles as
topography and other limiting factors of good design permit. In addition:
      1.   The number of streets converging at one intersection shall be
reduced to a minimum, preferably not more than two.
      2.   The number of intersections along major streets and highways shall
be held to a minimum. Wherever practicable, the distance between the
intersections shall not be less than 1,200 feet.
      3.   Minor streets shall not necessarily continue across arterial or
collector streets; but if the center lines of such minor streets approach the
major streets from opposite sides within 300 feet of each other, measured along
the centerline of the arterial or collector street, then the location shall be
adjusted so that the adjoinment across the major or collector street is
continuous; and a jog is avoided.
 
Notes
15 15 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-83. UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Public Utility Easements, when required for Village utilities or utility
district owned and/or maintained utilities, shall be at least 20 feet wide,
shall include a provision prohibiting the installation of permanent structures
or buildings other than those owned by the Village or utility district, and
shall provide that anything placed in the easement by the landowner or tenant
shall be at the risk of the landowner. All other easements provided for non-
municipally owned utilities shall meet the requirements of the individual
company.
   A.   The Village may require utility easements of widths deemed adequate for
the intended purpose on each side of all rear lot lines and on side lot lines
or across lots where necessary or advisable for electric power and
communication lines, wires, conduits, side and rear yard drainage and other
utility lines.
   B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainageway,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such water course, and
such further width needed to straighten, or for maintenance access, or both, as
will be adequate for the purposes. Parallel streets or parkways may be required
in connection therewith.
   C.   Easements shall be added when storm water from public or other private
areas drain to a publicly or privately owned and maintained stormwater
management area such that a perpetual right to drain is established and the
Village retains the right to enter the easement and perform any necessary
maintenance if the private property owner fails to adequately maintain the
privately owned area.
30-84. LOT AND BLOCK STANDARDS.
   A.   The lengths of blocks should, as a general rule, not be less than 600
feet or more than 1,500 feet. Blocks over 900 feet may require crosswalks.
Crosswalk dedication of not less than ten feet in width shall be provided where
determined necessary by the Village at the approximate centers of the blocks. A
sidewalk shall be constructed on the centerline, and full length of the
crosswalk. The use of additional crosswalks in any instance to provide safe and
convenient access to schools, parks, or other similar destinations will be
specified by the Village.
   B.   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but blocks
must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and their design must
evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public areas.
   C.   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use must be designated as
such and the plan must show adequate off-street areas suitably surfaced to
provide for parking, loading docks and such other facilities that may be
required to accommodate motor vehicles; all in accordance with applicable
Village ordinances and codes.
   D.   The minimum lot dimensions for residential development shall be
pursuant to the Village Planning and Zoning chapters and at the established
building line. Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building set back lines on both streets.
   E.   Building lines shall conform to the front yard provisions of the
Planning and Zoning chapters, and in no instance shall the building lines be
less than 25 feet from the street line.
   F.    16 All lots shall abut publicly dedicated streets, or private streets
when allowed by the Village Board. No private road or street may be created
after January 26, 2017 unless it is approved as part of a Planned Unit
Development Overlay District.
      1.   A private road or street serving five or more lots or housing units
shall comply with the design standards for public roads set forth in Appendix
A, Section 6.
      2.   Appendix A, Section 6 shall apply to a private road or street
serving fewer than five lots or housing units, provided, however, that the
owners may vary from the construction standards, right-of- way width, roadway
width and surface width set forth in Appendix A, Section 6, but shall comply,
at a minimum, with the standards set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 86.26(1)(a).
      3.   All dead end private roads or street shall end in a cul-de-sac with
a turning radius of at least 66 feet.
      4.   As a condition of approval of a private road or street, a homeowners
association, property owners association or condominium association composed of
the landowners on the private road or street shall be created that will have
the power to impose and enforce a maintenance lien pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
779.70, and covenants shall be agreed to that provide that the association
shall control all private road or street maintenance and snow plowing. The
covenants shall be recorded with the Racine County Register of Deeds.
   G.   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or radial to
the street line.
   H   Double frontage lots are discouraged except where lots back upon a
primary street (major thoroughfare) and in such instances, vehicular access
between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited or where topography of the
land might render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such lots shall have an
additional rear yard depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow for a
protective screen planting.
   I.   Lots abutting a limited access highway, railroad, watercourse, drainage
way, channel, or stream shall have additional minimum width or depth as
required to provide an adequate building site and afford the minimum usable
area required in the Planning and Zoning chapters for front, rear and side
yards.
 
Notes
16 16 Amended by Ordinance 2016-8, Adopted 12-12-16
30-85. PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   In the design of the plat, due consideration shall be given to the
dedication of suitable sites of adequate area for drainage ways and other
public purposes. If designated on the comprehensive plan, comprehensive plan
component, or official map, such areas shall be made a part of the plat as
stipulated in this chapter. If not so designated, consideration shall be given
in the location of such sites to the preservation of scenic and historic sites,
stands of fine trees, marshes, lakes and ponds, watercourses, watersheds, and
the need resulting from the land division. The specific provisions are set
forth in Article 11 of this Chapter.
30-86. HYDROLOGY AND SOILS.
   A.   Stormwater Runoff. Stormwater runoff from the proposed development
shall be managed through ditches, swales, pipes and ponds such that the release
rate for the two, ten, and 100 year frequency, 24-hour duration rainstorms
shall be no greater than that of the land in its natural state prior to
development.
   B.   Subsurface Drainage (Drain Tiles). The applicant shall submit a
subsurface drainage inventory. The inventory shall include locations of
existing farm and storm drainage tiles by means of slit trenching and other
appropriate methods performed by a qualified subsurface drainage consultant.
All existing drain tile lines damaged during the investigation shall be
repaired to their previous working status.
      1.   The applicant shall provide a topographical map of the development
site showing:
         a.   Location of and depth of each slit trench and identified to
correspond with the tile investigation report and surveyed points where the
tile was field staked at approximately 50 foot intervals;
         b.   Location of each drain tile with a flow direction arrow, tile
size and any connection to adjoining properties; A summary of the tile
investigation report showing trench identification number, tile size, material
and quality, percentage of the tile filled with water, percentage of
restrictions caused by silting, depth of ground cover, and working status;
         c.   Name, address and phone number of person or firm conducting tile
location investigation.
      2.   Information collected during the drainage investigation shall be
used to design and construct a stormwater management system that meets the
requirements of this Code, including connecting tile lines on adjoining
properties. Tiles discovered during construction that were not identified
during the investigation shall be incorporated into the development stormwater
system design and recorded on the development as-built documents.
   C.   The plans and special provisions shall include Best Management
Practices (BMP’s) that the developer shall utilize to eliminate the effects of
soil erosion, mud tracking and the resultant sedimentation problems both on and
off the site. Control of erosion shall be required both during and following
construction until the soils are stabilized and expiration of the required
maintenance bond. All BMP’s shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications of Wisconsin DNR Stormwater Construction and Post-Construction
Technical Standards.
   D.   See also Chapters 31 and 32.
30-87. SEWERS AND SEWERAGE DISPOSALS; WATER FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   A.   Sanitary sewerage.
      1.   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to comply with specifications
established by the Western Racine County Sewerage District (WRCSD) and the
Village, and shall be connected to the sanitary collection system of the
Village as set forth in Chapter 10. The subdivider is responsible for obtaining
necessary approvals from WRCSD. Where connection to public sanitary sewers is
not required by Chapter 10, individual septic systems may be permitted provided
they are designed in accordance with Chapter SPS 383 of the Wisconsin
Administrative Code. A subdivision plat shall in no case be approved which
shall be dependent upon individual septic systems and private wells, except
where lots therein contain not less than 40,000 square feet each and shall not
be less than 150 feet in width. All Village maintained utilities shall be
placed within dedicated rights-of-way and approved easements and, specifically,
those utilities shall not be placed upon private properties except for
developments in which alternate agreement(s) are entered into by the Village
and the developer. See also Chapter 10 of this Code.
      2.   Deferred assessments. The Village Board, pursuant to Wis. Stat. chs.
61, 62 and 66, shall determine the benefits to be derived from any sewer
installation made after the enactment of this Municipal Code as the same may
accrue to any undeveloped tract or parcel of land located within the plat
approval jurisdiction of the Village. The owner of such tract or parcel shall
be accorded the same legal and statutory privileges as are the owner of land
immediately affected by such installation. Any assessment accordingly made by
the Village Board against such tract or parcel of land shall be payable on a
deferred basis; and the payment shall be made to the Village at the time such
tract or parcel or any part thereof is actually connected to such sewer system,
and no interest shall be charged during the interim.
   B.   Water Supply for Fire Protection.
      1.   In all commercial, industrial and recreational developments, and in
all subdivisions in which five lots or more are created, the Village Plan
Commission and Village Board shall consult with the contracted fire company and
determine whether there is an adequate water supply for fire protection in the
vicinity, and may require the Developer or Owner to install, prior to the
issuance of any building permit for structures in the development or
subdivision, a dry hydrant in an accessible pond, or an accessible underground
cistern or holding tank, the plans for which shall be reviewed by the
contracted fire company and the Village Engineer and approved by the Wisconsin
Department of Natural Resources, to be used for fire protection. If required by
the Village, the pond, cistern or holding tank shall contain at least 20,000
gallons of water or a greater amount determined necessary by the contracted
fire company and Village Engineer.
      2.   It shall be the perpetual responsibility of the Developer or Owner
to maintain a required pond, hydrant, and/or cistern or holding tank or to
delegate the responsibility to an entity approved by the Village Board. In the
event that it is not properly maintained, the Village may, but is not required
to, perform said maintenance, and charge the cost thereof to the property
owners in the subdivision as a special charge pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
66.0627.
30-88. PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All existing utility lines, conduits, or cable for electric, telephone,
cable television and other communication services should be placed in a minimum
of 24 inches underground within the easements or within ten feet of the right-
of-way line of dedicated public ways as recommended by the Village Engineer and
as approved by the Village Plan Commission in conjunction with the approval of
any final plat of subdivision or planned unit development. All transformer
boxes shall be located so as not to be hazardous to the public.
30-89. LANDSCAPING, STREET LIGHTING, STREET SIGNS AND SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   A.   Landscaping shall be required to be constructed in accordance with the
Design Standards adopted by the Village as set forth in the Planning and Zoning
chapters.
   B.   Maintenance of the parkway area, defined as that area adjacent to any
lot or parcel, between the property line and any street shoulder or curb, shall
be the responsibility of the property owner of said lot or parcel including,
but not limited to:
      1.   Mowing of grass or ground cover.
      2.   Private driveway approaches.
      3.   The curb (depressed) or flare from the pavement edge extended, for a
private driveway approach.
      4.   Tree trimming and watering to assure a healthy, well-shaped
appearance and maintaining adequate roadway and sidewalk clearances.
      5.   Keeping culvert opening free of debris.
      6.   Mailboxes and support structures.
      7.   Sidewalk installation and maintenance, where applicable.
   C.   Each subdivider or subdivision owner shall provide for the adequate
lighting of public streets within the proposed subdivision in accordance with
the standards and requirements established by the Village Engineer or utility
company, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and subject to the
approval of the Village. Such lights shall be placed at each street
intersection and at such interior block spacing as may be required by the
Village Board. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or subdivision
owner to pay the installation cost of all such lighting.
   D.   Street signs and guard rails shall, at the option of the Village Board,
be obtained by the Village and placed where necessary by the Village and the
cost of the same shall be paid for by the subdivider. See also Article 12.
ARTICLE 9 ACCEPTANCE PROCEDURE.
30-91. SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION.
   Upon written request of the subdivider, and after all the required
improvements have been substantially completed, the Village Engineer shall make
an inspection of the work.
   A.   The Village Engineer shall then prepare a Substantial Completion
Certificate and Punch List for correction of items which do not comply with the
approved drawings and specifications for Design Standards of the Village which
need immediate attention. Upon completion of all items listed in the punch
list, the subdivider shall sign and return the Substantial Completion
Certificate.
   B.   If all punch list items are found to be completed, the Village Engineer
shall notify the Village Clerk in writing that the project has been
substantially completed.
   C.   The subdivider shall provide the Village with written waivers of lien
from all subcontractors that performed work on the project and a final waiver
of lien from the development company.
   D .   If items required for substantial completion are not taken care of in
a timely manner, the Village Board reserves the right to make a claim on the
developer's financial guarantee to complete the necessary work, or withhold
building and occupancy permits.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-8-2018)
30-92. FINAL ACCEPTANCE.
   Upon written request of the subdivider, after all the required improvements
have been completed and record drawings have been submitted, the Village
Engineer shall make a final inspection of the completed work.
   A.   The Village Engineer shall then prepare a Final Completion
Certification and Final Punch List for correction of items which do not comply
with the approved drawings and specifications or Design Standards of the
Village. Upon completion of all items listed in the final punch list, the
subdivider shall request, in writing, a reinspection. If all punch list items
are found to be completed, the Village Engineer shall notify the Village Clerk,
in writing, of his or her recommendation for approval and acceptance of the
work. The Village Clerk shall schedule the acceptance for the next regular
Village Board meeting.
   B.   The Developer shall be responsible for repairing defects in the public
improvements for a period of one year after the Village’s acceptance of the
improvements (the “guarantee period”). Prior to final acceptance of the public
improvements, the subdivider shall pay any outstanding invoices and submit a
five percent maintenance financial security for the full value of the public
improvements as estimated by the subdivider's engineer and verified by the
Village Engineer. Said maintenance financial security shall be the developer's
guarantee against defects of the public improvements and shall terminate one
year after acceptance of maintenance of the public improvements by the Village
Board, provided, however, that the term of the maintenance financial security
shall not be required to extend past 14 months after substantial completion of
the improvements. Unless otherwise approved or required by the Village Board,
the form of the maintenance financial security shall be substantially the same
form as the financial guarantee required for the construction of improvements
per Section
30-12. In the event that the Developer fails to repair or replace defective
work during the guarantee period, the Village will use the Developer’s
maintenance financial security and/or specially assess or specially charge the
land for the cost of repairs as set forth in s.
30-102.B.
   C.   Upon acceptance by the Village Board, the balance of the public
improvements construction financial guarantee and any deposited fees remaining
shall be released to the subdivider.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-8-2018)
30-93. BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure, or improvement to the land or any lot
within a subdivision as defined herein, which has been approved for platting or
replatting, until all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied
with, nor will any permit for any temporary or permanent facilities or
structures be issued until all roadways are capable of supporting emergency
equipment.
30-94. OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the use
of any structure within a subdivision approved for platting or replatting until
required utility facilities have been installed and made ready to service the
property, and that roadways providing access to the subject lot or lots have
been substantially completed, excluding final surface course. In case of corner
lots, this shall include both streets upon which the property is located.
ARTICLE 10 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
30-101. GENERAL.
   Prior to improving the property, a final plat must be filed for record and
be accompanied by the following:
   A.    17 An opinion of probable cost of all public improvements, including
those defined in Wis. Stat. s. 236.13 and prepared pursuant to the procedures
set forth in that statute.
   B.   Construction plans and specifications for such improvements previously
approved by the Village Engineer.
   C.   An Agreement executed by the Village and the subdivider wherein the
subdivider agrees to make and install the improvements in accordance with the
plans and specifications accompanying the final plat.
      1.   The agreement shall be executed by the owner, subdivider and the
Village President upon approval by the Village Board, and approved by the
Village Attorney, and set forth the plans and specifications for improvements
required by or under the authority of this chapter, this Municipal Code, or
state statutes or regulations. The land division may be constructed in such
phases as the Village approves, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, and the phasing plan, together with the terms under which the
security for each phase will be provided, shall be included in the agreement.
      2.   If land is divided by certified survey map for sale purposes only,
and no development is anticipated within five years from the date of the
division, a development agreement is not required at the time of the division;
however, the resolution approving said division shall specifically state that a
development agreement shall be required at the time of development and the
certified survey map shall contain said language on its face.
      3.   If improved land is divided and no further improvements are
required, no such agreement shall be required.
      4.   In the agreement the owner and/or subdivider shall agree that it
will construct or install at its own expense all of the improvements required
within the time limits prescribed in this chapter, Municipal Code or state
statutes or regulations, and in accordance with the plans and specifications
accompanying the final plat, certified survey map; such improvements shall be
inspected during installation and construction by an inspector appointed by the
Village Board or Village Engineer; and that, after completion of construction,
a final inspection shall be made by the Village Engineer prior to final
approval and acceptance by the Village Board by resolution, salaries and other
costs in connection with such inspections be paid by the owner or subdivider,
such costs to be based on the reasonable and customary charges for such
service.
      5.   The agreement shall contain an agreement by the owner and/or
subdivider that it will pay all costs incurred by the Village related to the
approval of the subdivision; including, but not limited to, the costs of public
notices required by law or ordinance, the administrative, legal and engineering
costs related to review and approval of plans, plats, and certified survey
maps, the drafting and or review of all legal documents, including development
agreements, ordinances and resolutions, and any other Village costs reasonably
related to said subdivision.
   D. 2     A financial guarantee as required by Section
30-12.
   E.   Maintenance Financial Security. See section
30-92.B. A Maintenance Financial Security is required prior to the acceptance
of the improvements.
   F.   The work schedule for each major phase of work to be performed under
this agreement, with estimated starting and completion dates.
   G.   Cash deposit. In addition to the surety required in this subsection,
the Village Board shall withhold its final approval until the owner or
subdivider deposits with the Village, in cash or by certified check, a sum
equal to the costs incurred and anticipated as set forth in the Development
Agreement. The Village shall deposit said sum pursuant to policies established
from time to time and shall provide itemized statements of withdrawal to the
owner or subdivider at the time of withdrawal.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-8-2018)
 
Notes
17 17 Amended 8-6-18, Ordinance #2018-5
2  18 Amended 8-6-18, Ordinance #2018-5
30-102. REDUCTION OF SURETY. 19
   A.   The financial guarantee for each phase can be periodically reduced by
the Village Clerk upon recommendation of the Village Engineer and approval by
the Village Board.
      1.   The subdivider may submit to the Village Engineer a list of
completed items and their cost along with copies of waivers of lien for the
completed items. Upon review of these submittals, the Village Engineer shall
recommend to the Village Clerk the reduction in the value of the financial
guarantee to be approved. Each reduction shall not be more than the value of
items estimated in the financial guarantee amount.
      2.    20 The 20 percent contingency shall be held as retainage and shall
not be released until substantial completion of the public improvements.
Substantial completion is defined as the time the binder course (the asphalt or
concrete non-surface-level course that is attached to the packed-level gravel
course) is installed on roads to be dedicated, or, if there is no road to be
dedicated, at the time that 90 percent of the public improvements by cost are
completed. Upon substantial completion, the amount of the financial guarantee
shall be reduced to the amount to complete any uncompleted public improvements
plus 10 percent of the total cost of the completed public improvements, which
shall remain in place for at least 14 months after the date of substantial
completion. The public improvements shall be completed in their entirety no
later than 12 months after substantial completion and tendered to the Village
for acceptance. Upon acceptance of the project and receipt of the five percent
maintenance financial security as specified in section
30-92, the original financial guarantee shall be released. If the work has not
been completed in its entirety 12 months after substantial completion, the
Village may declare the Developer to be in default of the Development Agreement
and use the financial guarantee and financial security for completion of the
public improvements.
   B.   RESERVATION OF ASSESSMENT RIGHTS. In the event that any financial
guarantee does not provide sufficient funds to complete the public improvements
as provided herein, or the financial guarantee expires, or the Developer does
not repair or replace defects in the public improvements during the guarantee
period, in addition to the remedies for default provided to the Village by the
financial guarantee, the Village reserves the right without notice or hearing
to impose special assessments or charges for any amount to which it is entitled
by virtue of the Agreement upon the Development and/or individual parcels in
the Development. Such special assessments or charges shall be collected on the
next succeeding tax roll as are other special assessments or charges. This
provision shall be included in the development agreement and the signature of
the developer shall constitute the waiver of notice and consent of Developer
and its successors and assigns to all special assessment or special charge
proceedings which may be required by law.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 10-8-2018)
 
Notes
19 19 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
20 20 Amended 8-6-18, Ordinance #2018-5
30-103. INSURANCE.
   A.   The subdivider's contractor shall provide and maintain insurance which
will protect the Village and each of its officers, employees, agents and
consultants from claims which may arise out of or result from the performance
of work by anyone directly or indirectly employed by the contractor or
subcontractor, or by anyone for whose acts the contractor may be liable.
Contractors engaged to perform the work required by this Agreement within the
Development and public rights-of-way shall, prior to commencing such work,
submit to the Village acceptable proof of the following coverages. These
certificates shall contain a provision that coverages afforded under the
policies will not be canceled until at least ten days written notice has been
given to the Village.
      1.   Unemployment and workers compensation insurance which is in strict
compliance with state laws.
      2.   Comprehensive personal and public liability insurance which is not
less than $1,000,000.
      3.   Comprehensive property damage insurance having limits of not less
than $500,000.
      4.   Comprehensive automobile liability and property damage insurance for
operations of all hired and non-hired motor vehicles of not less than $500,000.
      5.   Fire and extended coverage which shall insure against losses and
damages to incomplete and completed work, materials or equipment covering the
improvements to be dedicated to the Village until the same have been accepted
by the Village.
      6.   Umbrella coverage which is not less than $3,000,000.
   B.   The subdivider's contractor shall not commence work until certificates
of insurance showing coverage of all insurance required, signed by the
insurance companies or their authorized agents have been filed with both the
Village Clerk and Village Engineer.
   C.   The policies of insurance so required by this paragraph to be purchased
and maintained shall:
      1.   With respect to comprehensive general liability insurance, include
as additional insureds the Village and Village Engineer, all of whom shall be
listed by name as additional insureds, and include coverage for the respective
officers and employees of all such additional insureds;
      2.   Remain in effect at least until acceptance and at all times
thereafter when the subdivider may be correcting, removing, or replacing
defective work in accordance with this chapter, and
      3.   Completed operations insurance shall remain in effect for at least
two years after acceptance, and the subdivider shall furnish the Village and
any other additional insured to whom an insurance certificate has been
furnished, evidence satisfactory to the Village and any such additional insured
of continuation of such insurance at acceptance and one year thereafter.
ARTICLE 11 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES
30-111. GENERAL.
   In order that adequate open spaces and sites for public uses may be properly
located and preserved as the Village develops, and in order that the cost of
providing the park and recreation sites and facilities necessary to serve the
additional families brought into the Village by construction of residential
units may be most equitably apportioned on the basis of the additional need
created by the construction of such units, the following provisions are
established.
30-112. DEDICATION OR PAYMENT.
   In the design of any subdivision plat submitted for Village approval,
consideration shall be given to the adequate provision for and correlation with
public sites or open areas.
   A.   Where it is determined by the Village that a portion of any subdivision
plat submitted for approval is required for such public sites or open spaces,
the subdivider may be required to dedicate such land to the Village pursuant to
Wis. Stat. s. 236.45(6).
   B.   Where feasible and compatible with the comprehensive plan for
development of the community, upon request of the Village Board, the subdivider
shall provide and dedicate to the Village, adequate land to provide for the
park and recreation needs of the subdivision.
   C.    The amount of land to be provided shall be determined on the basis of
an amount of land equal in value to the public site fee referenced in
subsection D. below, per residential unit created by the subdivision.
   D.   If the Village Board, after consultation with the Plan Commission,
determines that such dedication is not feasible or compatible with the
comprehensive plan, there shall be paid to the Village in lieu of land
dedication, a public site fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule for each
residential unit to be constructed in the subdivision. Such fee shall be used
exclusively for immediate or future park or recreation area site acquisition or
capital improvement and development.
   E.   Payment of the public site fee shall be made in a lump sum (100%) at
the time of issuance of a building permit for construction of the residential
units in the subdivision. It shall be the obligation of the subdivider/owner or
his successor in title to pay the public site fee to the Village and the
subdivider/owner shall cause written notice of such obligation to pay the
public site fee to be recorded at the office of the Register of Deeds of Racine
County, Wisconsin, contemporaneous with the recording of the final plat.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-22-2024)
30-113. PUBLIC SITE FEE FOR OTHER CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   Except as set forth in Section
30-112 above for subdivision development, the Village requires payment of a
public site fee by each new residential unit to be used exclusively for
immediate or future park or recreational area, site acquisition, or capital
improvement or development.
   B.   Payment of the public site fee shall be made in a lump sum (100%) at
the time of issuance of a building permit for construction of a new residential
unit. It shall be the obligation of the person or entity applying for the
building permit to pay the public site fee to the Village.
   C.   Payment of the public site fee hereunder shall apply to new
construction only or where an additional residential unit is created.
ARTICLE 12 STREET NAMES AND NUMBERS
30-121. UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR STREET NAMES.
   There is hereby established an official system of street names in the
Village of Rochester as shown on the "Street Names" map as maintained on file
with the Village Clerk. Names of streets in the Village of Rochester shall
remain as shown on said map unless officially changed by specific ordinance or
resolution passed subsequent to this date.
30-122. NEW STREET NAMES. 21
   No new streets shall be accepted by the Village of Rochester; nor municipal
improvements made thereon until such streets have been named.
   A.   If streets are extensions of existing streets, the existing names shall
be continued, and if not extensions, names recorded shall not duplicate or
closely approximate street names already assigned.
   B.   Proposed names of new streets shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administration Office for review and approval. The Zoning Administrator shall
compare new street names with the master index maintained in the Clerk’s
office. The Village Zoning Administrator shall report to the Village of
Rochester within 30 days after receipt of the new street names as to approval
or disapproval of the same. The names shall be approved by the Village Board as
set forth in s.
30-34.
   C.   Name signs shall be erected and maintained at the direction of Village
of Rochester Public Works Department.
 
Notes
21 21 Amended 12-8-2014, Ordinance #2014-6
30-123. UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A.   There is hereby established a uniform system of numbering all
structures used for residence, business, industry, or public assembly fronting
on all streets within the Village of Rochester as shown on the "street
numbering" map on file in the office of the Village Zoning Administrator.
   B.   The Village of Rochester Zoning Administrator shall assign address
numbers as outlined by the numbering systems adopted by the Village.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator will notify the United States Postal Service
and Racine County Emergency Services of all new addresses issued.
   D.   All multi-unit house numbers shall be numbered with an A, B, C format,
as follows. For upper and lower duplexes A shall be the lower unit and B shall
be the upper unit. For side by side units, the unit on the right shall be A,
and the unit on the left shall be B.
   E.   Compliance Required. the house numbering requirements of this
Subsection apply to all living units in the Village of Rochester whether
currently existing or created in the future. Living units currently numbered in
a manner that is not consistent with the foregoing requirements shall bring the
numbering into compliance upon 30 days written notice from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-13-2020)
30-124. UNIFORM ADDRESS SIGNS.
   The Village board finds that uniform address signs and the uniform location
of such signage serves the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the
village by providing an efficient means for locating properties in the event of
a necessary law enforcement, fire, rescue or other emergency response, as well
as serving the interests of the traveling public at large.
   A.   Signs displaying a parcel's official address shall be installed on all
improved parcels within the Village. Such address signs shall be obtained
through the Village Clerk and shall be installed by the Village or its
contractors. Except where the installation at such a location would be
impossible or incompatible with the policy underlying uniform address signage,
such signs shall be installed in the village’s right-of-way near to the
parcel's driveway or other point of access, or at such other location as is
designated by the village.
   B.   At the time of application for a building permit for a new or
previously unimproved parcel, the parcel owner shall apply to the Village Clerk
for the assignment of a new address to such parcel, if necessary. The Village
Clerk shall also collect, in connection with the application for a new address
for such parcel, for the actual costs of acquiring and installing a new address
sign on such parcel, and an address sign shall thereafter be installed on the
new parcel in conformance with the requirements of this Article.
   C.   All property owners shall maintain the uniform address signs on their
properties keeping the signs clear of organic growth, debris, and any other
impediments to provide a direct line of sight either way from the street at all
times.
   D.   Within 20 days after a uniform address sign is stolen, destroyed, or
materially damaged beyond repair (such determination, when in doubt, to be made
by the Public Works Supervisor), the parcel owner shall apply for a replacement
address sign with the Village Clerk. The first sign replacement shall be at the
Village's expense, with additional sign replacements at the owner's expense. If
any landowners refuse to pay for the replacement of their address sign with the
exception of the first one, the Village will order it, install it, and the cost
will be added to the appropriate homeowner's tax bill as a special charge. If
the parcel owner fails to apply for a new sign, or violates any provision of
this Chapter, the condition shall be considered as creating a public nuisance,
subject to the abatement procedures set forth in
Chapter 8 of this Municipal Code.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, intentionally damage, or
intentionally cause to be damaged any uniform address sign installed under this
article, or to change the sign installation from the original vertical post/
horizontal sign array to any other configuration.
   F.   Signage for multiple unit buildings shall be placed as follows. Flag
house number signs attached to posts for duplexes and triplexes shall be placed
with the lowest number on top and in ascending order with highest number on the
bottom. In multiple unit buildings, each unit number must be displayed on
approved signs on the door to each unit, by the property owner.
   G.   Compliance Required. The house numbering requirements of this
Subsection apply to all living units in the Village of Rochester whether
currently existing or created in the future. Living units currently numbered in
a manner that is not consistent with the foregoing requirements shall bring the
numbering into compliance upon 30 days written notice from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-13-2020)
ARTICLE 20 DEFINITIONS
30-201. DEFINITIONS
   The definitions in this Article shall be observed and applied, except when
the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future tense. Words used in the singular form shall include the
plural form. Words used in the plural form shall include the singular. The word
“shall” is mandatory and the words “may” and “should” are permissive.
   “Common Open Space” means undeveloped land within a Conservation Subdivision
that has been designated, dedicated, reserved, or restricted in perpetuity from
further development and is set aside for the use and enjoyment by residents of
the development, or for the preservation, restoration and management of
historical, agricultural, or environmentally sensitive features. Common open
space shall not be part of individual residential lots, but undivided shares of
the common open space may be owned as part of the ownership of the lots. Common
Open Space shall be substantially free of structures, but may contain
historical structures and archaeological sites including Indian mounds and/or
such recreational facilities for residents as indicated on the approved
development plan. It shall be restored and managed, as appropriate, and a
stewardship and management plan shall be prepared for the open space.
   “Common Facilities” means those facilities which are designated, dedicated,
reserved, restricted, or otherwise set aside for the use and enjoyment by
residents of the development.
   “Condominium” means property subject to a condominium declaration that
combines individual unit ownership with shared use or ownership of common
property or facilities, established in accordance with the requirements of the
Condominium Ownership Act, Wis. Stat. ch. 703. A condominium is a legal form of
ownership of real estate and not a specific building type or style.
   “Comprehensive Plan” means the plan required by Wisconsin Statutes and
currently adopted as the November 2009 “A Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive
Plan for Racine County: 2035” as amended from time to time (the “Village
Comprehensive Plan”).
   “Conservation Easement” means a non-possessory interest in real property
designed to protect natural, scenic and open space values in perpetuity as
defined in Wis. Stat. s. 700.40 (Uniform Conservation Easement Act) and 26 U.S.
Code s. 170(h).
   “Conservation Subdivision” means a development in which dwelling units are
concentrated and/or clustered in specific areas at a higher density than
provided for by the zoning classification or Village’s Comprehensive Plan in
order to allow other portions of the development to be preserved for common
open space, including restoration and management of historical, agricultural,
or environmentally sensitive features.
   “Density Factor” means the average number of acres required for a dwelling
unit according to the Village’s Comprehensive Plan, the Village’s ordinances,
and applicable zoning regulations.
   “Development Envelopes” means areas within which pavement and buildings will
be located.
   “Development Yield” means the number of dwelling units authorized for a
Conservation Subdivision or Minor Land Division.
   “Ecological Restoration” means to protect, enhance, recreate, or remediate
functional and healthy plant and animal communities. Ecological restoration is
accomplished by implementing a Stewardship Plan for upland, wetland areas, and
aquatic resource areas, which include specific remedial and management
activities for sustainable maintenance of each of these areas and planting of
those varieties of plants that are indigenous to the area.
   “Floodplains” means those lands, including the floodplains, floodways,
depressions and channels, mapped or unmapped, subject to inundation by the 100-
year recurrence interval flood or, where such data are not available, the
maximum flood of record. See also
Chapter 37.
   “Homeowners’ Association” means a community association, incorporated or not
incorporated, combining individual home ownership with shared use or ownership
of common property or facilities.
   “Habitat Assessment” means a habitat assessment and plan to minimize adverse
effects on vegetation and wildlife on land developed within or within 200 feet
of a primary or secondary environmental corridor:
   A.   Begin with cursory survey of plant life; expand to detailed survey of
all species on high quality sites with broad diversity, rare species and/or few
invasive plants.
   B.   Survey wildlife based on observed species and signs; quantify
populations and provide more detailed evaluation of habitat when rare species
are found.
   C.   Recommend areas to preserve and/or restore based on value of what
exists.
   D.   Provide site management plan which ensures that development activities
will not reduce the number of existing rare or unusual plant and animal
species. Activities may reduce the number of common species as long as local
populations on the site remain viable.
   “Known” means existing information which can be gathered by the DNR, SEWRPC,
Rochester Plan Commission, Rochester Village Board, Rochester Village Clerk, or
any concerned citizen volunteering the information.
   “Net Buildable Acres” means gross contiguous acres of a development parcel
minus right-of- ways for new and existing state, county and Village roads.
   “Non-Profit Conservation Organization” means any charitable corporation,
charitable association or charitable trust (such as a land trust), the purposes
or powers of which include retaining or protecting the natural, scenic, or open
space values of real property, assuring the availability of real property for
agricultural, forest, recreational, or open space use, protecting natural
resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water quality, or preserving the
historical, architectural, archaeological, or cultural aspects of real
property. Typically, such organizations have the legal right to hold
conservation easements.
   “Parent Parcel” means the existing parcel of record, as of the effective
date of this Chapter.
   “Primary Environmental Corridor” means a concentration of significant
natural resources at least 400 acres in area, at least 2 miles in length, and
at least 200 feet in width, as delineated and mapped by the Southeastern
Wisconsin Regional Planning Commission.
   “Professional Ecological Services” means an individual or firm with
professional qualifications to prepare and implement an ecological Stewardship
Plan for upland, wetland areas, and aquatic resource areas, including specific
remedial and management activities for sustainable management of each of these
areas and the planting of the variety of plants that are indigenous to the
area.
   “Residential Unit” means a building or portion of a building, the principal
use of which is intended to provide a residence for a single family. A single-
family dwelling shall be one residential unit. A duplex dwelling shall be two
residential units. A multiple-family apartment building shall contain as many
residential units as the number of apartments contained therein.
   “Secondary Environmental Corridor” means a concentration of significant
natural resources at least 100 acres in area and at least 1 mile in length.
Where such corridors serve to link primary environmental corridors, no minimum
area or length criteria apply. Secondary environmental corridors are delineated
and mapped by the Southeastern Wisconsin Regional Planning Commission.
   “Sewer District” means the area of the Village to which sanitary sewer
service is available or nearby. The Sewer District lies within the SEWRPC sewer
service area, i.e., the area approved for construction of sanitary sewers by
the Southeastern Wisconsin Regional Planning Commission (SEWRPC). Public sewers
have not been constructed throughout the service area. When land is to be
divided under this chapter, it must be evaluated to determine first whether it
is in the service area, and if so, where it lies in proximity to existing
public sanitary sewers on lands comprising the Western Racine County Sewerage
District No. 1, the “Sewer District.” If the land to be divided is required to
connect to an existing sewer under Chapter 10, the landowner must apply to be
annexed to the Western Racine County Sewerage District No. 1 and fulfill the
requirements for annexation. Once WRCSD approves the annexation, the land will
be part of the Sewer District.
   “Stewardship Plan” means a comprehensive management plan for the long-term
enhancement and sustainability of natural ecosystems including forests,
prairies, meadows, wetlands, shore lands, lakes, river systems and other
ecosystems. Such plans shall include but not be limited to management goals,
monitoring schedules, identification and description of measures to be taken
should degradation of the system(s) be noted, and programs for the removal and
control of invasive vegetation species.
   “Storm Water Treatment Train” means a combination of physical and biological
features that are constructed or planted to convey, cleanse and enhance storm
water quality before the remaining water is released to receiving waters.
   “Street” means any road, street, alley, avenue, boulevard, highway, or other
thoroughfare used or useable for vehicular traffic in the Village.
   “Street or Road, Public” means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic under
the control of and maintained by the Village, County or State and open for
travel by the public. 22
   “Street or Road, Private” means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic, over
which a private easement has been granted to provide access to a public street
by the property owners abutting the private street or road, or which exists as
part of the common elements of a condominium. A Private Street or Road is under
the control of and maintained by the owner or abutting property owners or an
association of those owners, and not by the public. 23
   “Subdivider” means any person or entity dividing or proposing to divide land
resulting in a conservation subdivision, subdivision, or minor land division.
   “Threatened, Endangered, or Protected Species” means wildlife or plants
designated as being threatened, endangered or protected by the Wisconsin
Department of Natural Resources or the Federal government.
 
Notes
22 22 Added by Ordinance #2016-8, Adopted 12.12.16
23 23 “ “
CHAPTER 30 APPENDICES
TO VIEW DOCUMENT IN PDF FORMAT, CLICK_HERE
ARTICLE 50 ENFORCEMENT
30-501. VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to build upon, divide, convey, record, or place
monuments on any land in violation of this chapter or the Wisconsin Statutes;
and no person or entity shall be issued a building permit by the Village
authorizing the building on or improvement of any subdivision, minor land
division, or replat within the jurisdiction of this chapter not of record as of
the effective date of this chapter until the provisions and requirements of
this chapter have been fully met. The Village may institute appropriate action
or proceedings to enjoin violations of this chapter or the applicable Wisconsin
Statutes.
30-502. PENALTIES.
   A.   Penalty for Violation of Article 12, Street Names and Numbers. Any
person or entity violating any provision of Article 12 shall, upon conviction,
pay a forfeiture of not less than $50.00 nor more than $400.00 plus all
applicable costs allowed by law, including restitution, for each and every
offense as set forth in
Chapter 50. Each day of violation or each street sign damaged or moved in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   General Penalty. Any person or entity who violates or fails to comply
with the provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not
less than $100.00 nor more than $400.00 plus all applicable costs allowed by
law, including restitution, for each offense as set forth in Chapter 50.Each
day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      1.   Recordation improperly made carries penalties as provided in Wis.
Stat. s. 236.30.
      2.   Conveyance of lots in unrecorded plats carries penalties as provided
for in Wis. Stat. s. 236.31.
      3.   Monuments disturbed or not placed carries penalties as provided for
in Wis. Stat. s. 236.32.
      4.   An assessor's plat made under Wis. Stat. s. 70.27 may be ordered as
a remedy by the Village, at the expense of the subdivider, when a subdivision
as defined herein is created by successive divisions.
30-503. APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by an objection to a plat or CSM or a failure to
approve a plat or CSM may appeal such objection or failure to approve as
provided in Wis. Stat. s. 236.13(5)within 30 days of notification of the
rejection of the plat. Where failure to approve is based on an unsatisfied
objection, the agency making the objection shall be made a party to the action.
The court shall direct that the plat be approved if it finds that the action of
the approving or objecting agency is arbitrary, unreasonable, or
discriminatory.
CHAPTER 31 CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION CONTROL
31-1. AUTHORITY.
   This Chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Wis. Stat. s. 61.354.
   A.   Except as otherwise specified in Wis. Stat. s. 61.354, Wis. Stat. s.
61.35 and the other zoning chapters apply to this Chapter and to any amendments
to this Chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter are deemed not to limit any other lawful
regulatory powers of the Village of Rochester.
   C.   The Village Board of the Village of Rochester hereby designates the
Zoning Administrator and/or Village Engineer to administer and enforce the
provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   The requirements of this Chapter do not pre-empt more stringent erosion
and sediment control requirements that may be imposed by any of the following:
      1.   Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources administrative rules,
permits or approvals including those authorized under Wis. Stat. ss. 281.16 and
283.33.
      2.   Targeted non-agricultural performance standards promulgated in rules
by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources under Wis. Admin. Code s. NR
151.004.
31-2. FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The Village Board finds that runoff from land disturbing construction
activity carries a significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to the
waters of the state in the Village of Rochester.
31-3. PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this Chapter to further the maintenance
of safe and healthful conditions; prevent and control water pollution; prevent
and control soil erosion; protect spawning grounds, fish and aquatic life;
control building sites, placement of structures and land uses; preserve ground
cover and scenic beauty; and promote sound economic growth, by minimizing the
amount of sediment and other pollutants carried by runoff or discharged from
land disturbing construction activity to waters of the state in the Village of
Rochester.
   B.   Intent. The intent of this Chapter is to require use of best management
practices to reduce the amount of sediment and other pollutants resulting from
land disturbing construction activities on sites that do not include the
construction of a building and are otherwise regulated by the Wisconsin
Department of Safety and Professional Services in Wis. Admin. Code chs. SPS
320-325 or 361-366. Use of this Chapter will foster consistent, statewide
application of the construction site performance standards for new development
and redevelopment contained in subchapters III and IV of Wis. Admin. Code ch.
NR 151.
31-4. APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   This Chapter applies to land disturbing construction activities
within the jurisdiction of the Village, except as provided under subsection B;
      2.   Where a subdivision plat, requiring review and approval by the
village, is required under Chapter 30;
      3.   Where a certified survey map, requiring review and approval by the
village, is required under Chapter 30;
      4.   Where a land disturbing construction activity affects a surface area
of 4,000 square feet or greater;
      5.   If excavation, fill or any combination thereof will exceed 400 cubic
yards;
      6.   If public (federal, state or local) street, road or highway is to be
constructed, enlarged, relocated or substantially reconstructed;
      7.   If any watercourse is to be changed, enlarged, or materials are
removed from a stream or lake bed;
      8.   Any utility work in which underground conduits, piping, wiring,
water lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, or similar structures will be laid,
repaired, replaced or enlarged, if such work involves more than 300 linear feet
of earth disturbance;
   B.   Exclusions. This Chapter does not apply to the following:
      1.   Land disturbing construction activity that includes the construction
of a building and is otherwise regulated by the Wisconsin Department of Safety
and Professional Services in Wis. Admin. Code chs. SPS 320 to 325 or 361 to
366;
      2.   A construction project that is exempted by federal statutes or
regulations from the requirement to have a national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit issued under chapter 40, Code of Federal Regulations,
part 122, for land disturbing construction activity;
      3.   Nonpoint discharges from agricultural facilities and practices;
      4.   Nonpoint discharges from silviculture activities;
      5.   Routine maintenance for project sites under five acres of land
disturbance if performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity or original purpose of the facility;
      6.   Cleaning and restoring existing drainage ditches, agricultural
practices, growing and tending gardens, or silviculture activities;
      7.   A land disturbing construction activity for which a permit was
obtained from both the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources and from the
Wisconsin State Farm Service Agency Office for programs of the United States
Department of Agriculture except that the property owner shall file with the
Village Clerk a copy of any such permit and approved plan;
      8.   Activities conducted by a state agency, as defined under Wis. Stat.
s. 227.01(1), but also including the office of district attorney, which is
subject to the state plan promulgated or a memorandum of understanding entered
into under Wis. Stat. s. 281.33(2);
      9.   Activities directed and supervised by the Wisconsin Department of
Transportation, which has entered into a memorandum of understanding with the
Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources that satisfies Wis. Stat. s. 281.33
(2).
   C.   Jurisdiction. This Chapter applies to land disturbing construction
activity on construction sites located within the boundaries and jurisdiction
of the Village of Rochester.
31-5. DEFINITIONS.
   "Administering Authority" means the Village and the persons designated by
the Village to administer this Chapter.
   "Agricultural Facilities and Practices" has the meaning in Wis. Stat. s.
281.16(1).
   "Average annual rainfall" means a calendar year of precipitation, excluding
snow, which is considered typical.
   "Best management practice" or "BMP" means structural or non-structural
measures, practices, techniques or devices employed to avoid or minimize soil,
sediment or pollutants carried in runoff to waters of the state.
   "Business day" means a day the office of the Village of Rochester is
routinely and customarily open for business.
   "Cease and Desist Order" means a court-issued order to halt land disturbing
construction activity that is being conducted without the required permit.
   "Construction Site" means an area upon which one or more land disturbing
construction activities occur, including areas that are part of a larger common
plan of development or sale where multiple separate and distinct land
disturbing construction activities may be taking place at different times on
different schedules but under one plan.
   "Division of Land" means the creation from one parcel of two or more parcels
or building sites.
   "Erosion" means the process by which the land's surface is worn away by the
action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
   "Erosion and Sediment Control Plan" means a comprehensive plan developed to
address pollution caused by erosion and sedimentation of soil particles or rock
fragments during construction.
   "Extraterritorial" means the unincorporated area within 3 miles of the
corporate limits of a first, second, or third class city, or within 1.5 miles
of a fourth class city or village.
   "Final Stabilization" means that all land disturbing construction activities
at the construction site have been completed and that a uniform perennial
vegetative cover has been established, with a density of at least 70 percent of
the cover, for the unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures,
or that employ equivalent permanent stabilization measures.
   "Governing body" means the Village Board of Trustees.
   "Land Disturbing Construction Activity" means any man-made alteration of the
land surface resulting in a change in the topography or existing vegetative or
non-vegetative soil cover, that may result in runoff and lead to an increase in
soil erosion and movement of sediment into waters of the state. Land disturbing
construction activity includes clearing and grubbing, demolition, excavating,
pit trench dewatering, filling and grading activities.
   "MEP" or "Maximum Extent Practicable" means a level of implementing best
management practices in order to achieve a performance standard specified in
this Chapter which takes into account the best available technology, cost
effectiveness and other competing issues such as human safety and welfare,
endangered and threatened resources, historic properties and geographic
features. MEP allows flexibility in the way to meet the performance standards
and may vary based on the performance standard and site conditions.
   "Performance Standard" means a narrative or measurable number specifying the
minimum acceptable outcome for a facility or practice.
   "Permit" means a written authorization made by the Administering Authority
to the applicant to conduct land disturbing construction activity or to
discharge post- construction runoff to waters of the state.
   "Pollutant" has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 283.01(13).
   "Pollution" has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 281.01(1).
   "Responsible Party" means any entity holding fee title to the property or
performing services to meet the performance standards of this Chapter through a
contract or other agreement.
   "Runoff" means storm water or precipitation including rain, snow or ice melt
or similar water that moves on the land surface via sheet or channelized flow.
   "Sediment" means settleable solid material that is transported by runoff,
suspended within runoff or deposited by runoff away from its original location.
   "Separate storm sewer" means a conveyance or system of conveyances including
roads with drainage systems, streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches,
constructed channels or storm drains, which meets all of the following
criteria:
      A.   Is designed or used for collecting water or conveying runoff.
      B.   Is not part of a combined sewer system.
      C.   Is not draining to a storm water treatment device or system.
      D.   Discharges directly or indirectly to waters of the state.
   "Site" means the entire area included in the legal description of the land
on which the land disturbing construction activity is proposed in the permit
application.
   "Stop Work Order" means an order issued by the Administering Authority which
requires that all construction activity on the site be stopped.
   "Technical Standard" means a document that specifies design, predicted
performance and operation and maintenance specifications for a material, device
or method.
   "Waters of the State" has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 281.01(18).
31-6 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   A.   Design Criteria, Standards and Specifications. All BMPs required to
comply with this Chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications based on any of the following:
      1.   Applicable design criteria, standards and specifications identified
in the Wisconsin Construction Site Best Management Practice Handbook, WDNR Pub.
WR-222 November 1993 Revision, as may be amended from time to time.
      2.   Other design guidance and technical standards identified or
developed by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources under Wis. Admin.
Code ch. NR 151, subch. V.
      3.   For this Chapter, average annual basis is calculated using the
appropriate annual rainfall or runoff factor, also referred to as the R factor,
or an equivalent design storm using a type II distribution, with consideration
given to the geographic location of the site and the period of disturbance.
      4.   Note: The USLE and its successors RUSLE and RUSLE2, utilize an R
factor which has been developed to estimate annual soil erosion, averaged over
extended time periods. The R factor can be modified to estimate monthly and
single-storm erosion. A design storm can be statistically calculated to provide
an equivalent R factor as an average annual calculation.
   B.   Other Standards. Other technical standards not identified or developed
in subsection A may be used provided that the methods have been approved by the
Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer.
31-7 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   A.   Responsible Party. The responsible party shall implement an erosion and
sediment control plan, developed in accordance with s.
31-9 that incorporates the requirements of this section.
   B.   Plan. A written plan shall be developed in accordance with s.
31-9 and implemented for each construction site. The written plan may be that
specified within Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 216.46, the erosion control portion of
a construction plan or other plan.
   C.   Erosion and Other Pollutant Control Requirements. The plan required
under subsection B shall include the following:
      1.   BMPs that, by design, achieve to the maximum extent practicable, a
reduction of 80% of the sediment load carried in runoff, on an average annual
basis, as compared with no sediment or erosion controls until the construction
site has undergone final stabilization. No person shall be required to exceed
an 80% sediment reduction to meet the requirements of this paragraph. Erosion
and sediment control BMPs may be used alone or in combination to meet the
requirements of this paragraph. Credit toward meeting the sediment reduction
shall be given for limiting the duration or area, or both, of land disturbing
construction activity, or other appropriate mechanism. Soil loss prediction
tools that estimate the sediment load leaving the construction site under
varying land and management conditions, or methodology identified in Wis.
Admin. Code ch. NR 151, subch. V, may be used to calculate sediment reduction.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection 1, if BMPs cannot be designed and
implemented to reduce the sediment load by 80%, on an average annual basis, the
plan shall include a written and site-specific explanation as to why the 80%
reduction goal is not attainable and the sediment load shall be reduced to the
maximum extent practicable.
      3.   Where appropriate, the plan shall include sediment controls to do
all of the following to the maximum extent practicable:
         a.   Prevent tracking of sediment from the construction site onto
roads and other paved surfaces.
         b.   Prevent the discharge of sediment as part of site de-watering.
         c.   Protect the separate storm drain inlet structure from receiving
sediment.
      4.   The use, storage and disposal of chemicals, cement and other
compounds and materials used on the construction site shall be managed during
the construction period, to prevent their entrance into waters of the state.
However, projects that require the placement of these materials in waters of
the state, such as constructing bridge footings or BMP installations, are not
prohibited by this paragraph.
   D.   Location. The BMPs used to comply with this section shall be located
prior to runoff entering waters of the state. While regional treatment
facilities are appropriate for control of post-construction pollutants, they
should not be used for construction site sediment removal.
   E.   Alternate Requirements. The Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer
may establish storm water management requirements more stringent than those set
forth in this section if the Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer
determines that an added level of protection is needed for sensitive resources.
31-8. PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURES AND FEES.
   A.   Permit Required. No responsible party may commence a land disturbing
construction activity subject to this Chapter without receiving prior approval
of an erosion and sediment control plan for the site and a permit from the
Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer.
   B.   Permit Application and Fees. At least one responsible party desiring to
undertake a land disturbing construction activity subject to this Chapter shall
submit an application for a permit and an erosion and sediment control plan
that meets the requirements of s.
31-9 and shall pay an application fee in the amount set by the Village Board
and shown in the Fee Schedule of the Village. By submitting an application, the
applicant is authorizing the Zoning Administrator and/or Village Engineer to
enter the site to obtain information required for the review of the erosion and
sediment control plan.
   C.   Review and Approval of Permit Application. The Zoning Administrator or
Village Engineer shall review any permit application that is submitted with an
erosion and sediment control plan, and the required fee. The following approval
procedure shall be used:
      1.   Within 15 business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application, as required by subsection B, the Zoning Administrator or Village
Engineer shall inform the applicant whether the application and plan are
approved or disapproved based on the requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   If the permit application and plan are approved, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue the permit.
      3.   If the permit application or plan is disapproved, the Zoning
Administrator or Village Engineer shall state in writing the reasons for
disapproval.
      4.   The Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer may request additional
information from the applicant. If additional information is submitted, the
Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer shall have 15 business days from the
date the additional information is received to inform the applicant that the
plan is either approved or disapproved.
      5.   Failure by the Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer to inform
the permit applicant of a decision within 15 business days of a required
submittal shall be deemed to mean approval of the submittal and the applicant
may proceed as if a permit had been issued.
   D.   Surety Bond. As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the
Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer may require the applicant to deposit a
surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit to guarantee a good faith execution
of the approved erosion control plan and any permit conditions.
   E.   Permit Requirements. All permits shall require the responsible party
to:
      1.   Notify the Zoning Administrator within 48 hours of commencing any
land disturbing construction activity.
      2.   Notify the Zoning Administrator of completion of any BMPs within 14
days after their installation.
      3.   Obtain permission in writing from the Zoning Administrator or
Village Engineer prior to any modification pursuant to s.
31-9C of the erosion and sediment control plan.
      4.   Install all BMPs as identified in the approved erosion and sediment
control plan.
      5.   Maintain all road drainage systems, stormwater drainage systems,
BMPs and other facilities identified in the erosion and sediment control plan.
      6.   Repair any siltation or erosion damage to adjoining surfaces and
drainage ways resulting from land disturbing construction activities and
document repairs in a site erosion control log.
      7.   Inspect the BMPs within 24 hours after each rain of 0.5 inches or
more which results in runoff during active construction periods, and at least
once each week make needed repairs and document the findings of the inspections
in a site erosion control log with the date of inspection, the name of the
person conducting the inspection, and a description of the present phase of the
construction at the site.
      8.   Allow the Zoning Administrator and/or Village Engineer to enter the
site for the purpose of inspecting compliance with the erosion and sediment
control plan or for performing any work necessary to bring the site into
compliance with the control plan. Keep a copy of the erosion and sediment
control plan at the construction site.
   F.   Permit Conditions. Permits issued under this section may include
conditions established by the Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer in
addition to the requirements set forth in subsection E. where needed to assure
compliance with the performance standards in s.
31-7.
   G.   Permit Duration. Permits issued under this section shall be valid for a
period of 180 days, or the length of the building permit or other construction
authorizations, whichever is longer, from the date of issuance. The Zoning
Administrator or Village Engineer may extend the period one or more times for
up to an additional 180 days. The Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer may
require additional BMPs as a condition of the extension if they are necessary
to meet the requirements of this Chapter.
   H.   Maintenance. The responsible party throughout the duration of the
construction activities shall maintain all BMPs necessary to meet the
requirements of this Chapter until the site has undergone final stabilization.
31-9. EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN, STATEMENT, AND AMENDMENTS.
   A.   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
      1.   An erosion and sediment control plan shall be prepared and submitted
to the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   The erosion and sediment control plan shall be designed to meet the
performance standards in s.
31-7 and other requirements of this Chapter.
      3.   The erosion and sediment control plan shall address pollution caused
by soil erosion and sedimentation during construction and up to final
stabilization of the site. The erosion and sediment control plan shall include,
at a minimum, the following items:
         a.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the
site, and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant, together with the
name of the applicant's principal contact at such firm. The application shall
also include start and end dates for construction.
         b.   Description of the site and the nature of the construction
activity, including representation of the limits of land disturbance on a
United States Geological Service 7.5 minute series topographic map.
         c.   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing; rough grading; construction of utilities,
infrastructure, and buildings; and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing
shall identify the expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated
duration of exposure of cleared areas, areas of clearing, installation of
temporary erosion and sediment control measures, and establishment of permanent
vegetation.
         d.   Estimates of the total area of the site and the total area of the
site that is expected to be disturbed by construction activities.
         e.   Estimates, including calculations, if any, of the runoff
coefficient of the site before and after construction activities are completed.
         f.   Calculations to show the expected percent reduction in the
average annual sediment load carried in runoff as compared to no sediment or
erosion controls.
         g.   Existing data describing the surface soil as well as subsoils.
         h.   Depth to groundwater, as indicated by Natural Resources
Conservation Service soil information where available.
         i.   Name of the immediate named receiving water from the United
States Geological Service 7.5 minute series topographic maps.
      4.   The erosion and sediment control plan shall include a site map. The
site map shall include the following items and shall be at a scale not greater
than 100 feet per inch and at a contour interval not to exceed five feet.
         a.   Existing topography, vegetative cover, natural and engineered
drainage systems, roads and surface waters. Lakes, streams, wetlands, channels,
ditches and other watercourses on and immediately adjacent to the site shall be
shown. Any identified 100-year flood plains, flood fringes and floodways shall
also be shown.
         b.   Boundaries of the construction site.
         c.   Drainage patterns and approximate slopes anticipated after major
grading activities.
         d.   Areas of soil disturbance.
         e.   Location of major structural and non-structural controls
identified in the plan.
         f.   Location of areas where stabilization practices will be employed.
         g.   Areas which will be vegetated following construction.
         h.   Areal extent of wetland acreage on the site and locations where
storm water is discharged to a surface water or wetland.
         i.   Locations of all surface waters and wetlands within one mile of
the construction site.
         j.   An alphanumeric or equivalent grid overlying the entire
construction site map.
      5.   Each erosion and sediment control plan shall include a description
of appropriate controls and measures that will be performed at the site to
prevent pollutants from reaching waters of the state. The plan shall clearly
describe the appropriate control measures for each major activity and the
timing during the construction process that the measures will be implemented.
The description of erosion controls shall include, when appropriate, the
following minimum requirements:
         a.   Description of interim and permanent stabilization practices,
including a practice implementation schedule. Site plans shall ensure that
existing vegetation is preserved where attainable and that disturbed portions
of the site are stabilized.
         b.   Description of structural practices to divert flow away from
exposed soils, store flows or otherwise limit runoff and the discharge of
pollutants from the site. Unless otherwise specifically approved in writing by
the Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer, structural measures shall be
installed on upland soils.
         c.   Management of overland flow at all sites, unless otherwise
controlled by outfall controls.
         d.   Trapping of sediment in channelized flow.
         e.   Staging construction to limit bare areas subject to erosion.
         f.   Protection of downslope drainage inlets where they occur.
         g.   Minimization of tracking at all sites.
         h.   Clean-up of off-site sediment deposits.
         i.   Proper disposal of building and waste materials at all sites.
         k.   Stabilization of drainage ways.
         l.   Control of soil erosion from dirt stockpiles.
         m.   Installation of permanent stabilization practices as soon as
possible after final grading.
         n.   Minimization of dust to the maximum extent practicable.
      6.   The erosion and sediment control plan shall require that velocity
dissipation devices be placed at discharge locations and along the length of
any outfall channel, as necessary, to provide a non-erosive flow from the
structure to a water course so that the natural physical and biological
characteristics and functions are maintained and protected. The plan
requirements of this subsection will meet the erosion control plan requirements
of Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 216.46 when prepared in accordance with good
engineering practices and the design criteria, standards and specifications
outlined in the Wisconsin Construction Site Best Management Practice Handbook
(WDNR Pub. WR-222 November 1993 Revision).
   B.   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan Statement. For each construction site
identified under s.
31-4.A.3., an erosion and sediment control plan statement shall be prepared.
This statement shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The control plan
statement shall briefly describe the site, including a site map. Further, it
shall also include the best management practices that will be used to meet the
requirements of the Chapter, including the site development schedule.
   C.   Amendments. The applicant shall amend the plan if any of the following
occur:
      1.   There is a change in design, construction, operation or maintenance
at the site which has the reasonable potential for the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the state and which has not otherwise been addressed in the plan.
      2.   The actions required by the plan fail to reduce the impacts of
pollutants carried by construction site runoff.
      3.   The Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer notifies the applicant
of changes needed in the plan.
31-10. FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees referred to in other sections of this Chapter shall be established
by the Village and may from time to time be modified by resolution. A schedule
of the fees established by the Village shall be available for review at the
Village Hall.
31-11 INSPECTION.
   A.   The Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer may inspect any
construction site that holds a permit under this chapter at least once a month
during the period starting March 1 and ending October 31 and at least 2 times
during the period starting November 1 and ending February 28 to ensure
compliance with the approved sediment and erosion control plan, provided,
however, that it may inspect the site more, or less, frequently as conditions
require.
   B.   If land disturbing construction activities are being carried out
without a permit required by this Chapter, the Village may obtain a special
inspection warrant to enter the land pursuant to the provisions of Wis. Stat.
s. 66.0119.
31-12. STOP-WORK ORDER.
   A.   The Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer may post a stop-work order
if any of the following occurs:
      1.   Any land disturbing construction activity regulated under this
Chapter is being undertaken without a permit.
      2.   The erosion and sediment control plan is not being implemented in a
good faith manner.
      3.   The conditions of the permit are not being met.
   B.   If the responsible party does not cease activity as required in a stop-
work order posted under this section or fails to comply with the erosion and
sediment control plan or permit conditions, the Zoning Administrator or Village
Engineer may revoke the permit.
   C.   If the responsible party, where no permit has been issued, does not
cease the activity after being notified by the Zoning Administrator or Village
Engineer, or if a responsible party violates a stop-work order posted under
subsection A, the Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer may request the
village attorney to obtain a cease and desist order in any court with
jurisdiction.
   D.   The Board of Appeals may retract the stop-work order issued under
subsection A or the permit revocation under subsection 2 upon appeal of the
Zoning Administrator or Village Engineer’s Order, under the procedures set
forth in s.
31-13.
   E.   After posting a stop-work order under subsection A, the Village may
issue a notice of intent to the responsible party of its intent to perform work
necessary to comply with this Chapter. The Village may go on the land and
Commence the work after issuing the notice of intent. The costs of the work
performed under this subsection by the Village, plus interest at the rate
authorized by the Village, shall be billed to the responsible party. In the
event a responsible party fails to pay the amount due, the clerk shall enter
the amount due on the tax rolls and collect as a special charge against the
property pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.66.0627.
31-13. APPEALS.
   A.   Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals created pursuant to
Chapter 35, Planning and Zoning:
      1.   Shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator
and/or Village Engineer in administering this Chapter except for cease and
desist orders obtained under s.
31-12C;
      2.   Upon appeal, may authorize variances from the provisions of this
Chapter which are not contrary to the public interest and where owing to
special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of the Chapter will
result in unnecessary hardship; and
      3.   Shall use the rules, procedures, duties and powers authorized by
statute and set forth in
Chapter 35 in hearing and deciding appeals and authorizing variances.
   B.   Who May Appeal. Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be taken by
any aggrieved person or by any office, department, board, or bureau of the
Village of Rochester affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator and/
or Village Engineer.
31-14. DAMAGE TO OR DESTRUCTION OF BMPS.
   No person may destroy or render ineffective BMPs constructed to meet the
performance standards of this Chapter.
31-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
subject to a forfeiture as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Each day a violation exists constitutes a
separate offense.
   B.   Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter may also be enforced by
injunction in any court with jurisdiction. It shall not be necessary to
prosecute for forfeiture or a cease and desist order before proceed to
injunction proceedings.
CHAPTER 32 POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
AND POND REGULATIONS
32-1. AUTHORITY.
   A.   The stormwater management provisions of this Chapter are adopted by the
Village Board under the authority granted by Wis. Stat. s. 61.354. This Chapter
supersedes all provisions of any ordinance previously enacted under Wis. Stat.
s. 61.35 that relates to stormwater management regulations. Except as otherwise
provided in Wis. Stat. s. 61.354, Wis. Stat. s. 61.35 applies to this Chapter
and to any amendments to this Chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter are deemed not to limit any other lawful
regulatory powers of the same Village or other governing body.
   C.   The Village Board hereby designates the Zoning Administrator and/or
Village Engineer to administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   The requirements of this Chapter do not pre-empt more stringent storm
water management requirements that may be imposed by any of the following:
      1.   Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources administrative rules,
permits or approvals, including but not limited to those authorized under Wis.
Stat. ss. 281.16 and 283.33.
      2.   Targeted performance standards promulgated in rules by the Wisconsin
Department of Natural Resources under Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 151.004.
32-2. FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The Village Board finds that uncontrolled, post-construction runoff has a
significant impact upon water resources and the health, safety and general
welfare of the community and diminishes the public enjoyment and use of natural
resources. Specifically, uncontrolled post-construction runoff can:
   A.   Degrade physical stream habitat by increasing stream bank erosion,
increasing streambed scour, diminishing groundwater recharge, diminishing
stream base flows and increasing stream temperature.
   B.   Diminish the capacity of lakes and streams to support fish, aquatic
life, recreational and water supply uses by increasing pollutant loading of
sediment, suspended solids, nutrients, heavy metals, bacteria, pathogens and
other urban pollutants.
   C.   Alter wetland communities by changing wetland hydrology and by
increasing pollutant loads.
   D.   Reduce the quality of groundwater by increasing pollutant loading.
   E.   Threaten public health, safety, property and general welfare by
overtaxing storm sewers, drainage ways, and other minor drainage facilities.
   F.   Threaten public health, safety, property and general welfare by
increasing major flood peaks and volumes.
   G.   Undermine floodplain management efforts by increasing the incidence and
levels of flooding.
32-3. PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   A.   Purpose. The general purpose of this Chapter is to establish long-term,
post-construction runoff management requirements that will diminish the threats
to public health, safety, welfare and the aquatic environment. Specific
purposes are to:
      1.   Further the maintenance of safe and healthful conditions.
      2.   Prevent and control the adverse effects of storm water; prevent and
control soil erosion; prevent and control water pollution; protect spawning
grounds, fish and aquatic life; control building sites, placement of structures
and land uses; preserve ground cover and scenic beauty; and promote sound
economic growth.
      3.   Control exceedance of the safe capacity of existing drainage
facilities and receiving water bodies; prevent undue channel erosion; control
increases in the scouring and transportation of particulate matter; and prevent
conditions that endanger downstream property.
   B.   Intent. It is the intent of the Village Board that this Chapter
regulate post-construction storm water discharges to waters of the state. This
Chapter may be applied on a site-by-site basis. The Village Board recognizes,
however, that the preferred method of achieving the storm water performance
standards set forth in this Chapter is through the preparation and
implementation of comprehensive, systems-level storm water management plans
that cover hydrologic units, such as watersheds, on a municipal and regional
scale. Such plans may prescribe regional storm water devices, practices or
systems, any of which may be designed to treat runoff from more than one site
prior to discharge to waters of the state. Where such plans are in conformance
with the performance standards developed under Wis. Stat. s. 281.16 for
regional storm water management measures and have been approved by the Village
Board, it is the intent of this Chapter that the approved plan be used to
identify post-construction management measures acceptable for the community.
32-4. APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Where not otherwise limited by law, this Chapter applies after final
stabilization to a site of land disturbing construction activity meeting any of
the criteria in this section, unless the site is otherwise exempt under section
2.
         a.   A post construction site that had five or more acres of land
disturbing construction activity.
         b.   A post-development construction site that had one or more acres
of land disturbing construction activity after March 10, 2003.
      2.   A site that meets any of the criteria in this section is exempt from
the requirements of this Chapter.
         a.   A redevelopment post-construction site with no increase in
impervious area.
         b.   A post-construction site with less than 10% connected
imperviousness based on complete development of the post-construction site,
provided the cumulative area of all parking lots and rooftops is less than one
acre.
         c.   Nonpoint discharges from agricultural facilities and practices.
         d.   Nonpoint discharges from silviculture activities.
         e.   Routine maintenance for project sites under five acres of land
disturbance if performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity or original purpose of the facility.
         f.   Underground utility construction such as water, sewer and
fiberoptic lines. This exemption does not apply to the construction of any
above ground structures associated with utility construction.
         g.   Notwithstanding the applicability requirements in section 1.,
this Chapter applies to post-construction sites of any size that, in the
opinion of the Zoning Administrator, are likely to result in runoff that
exceeds the safe capacity of the existing drainage facilities or receiving body
of water, that causes undue channel erosion, that increases water pollution by
scouring or the transportation of particulate matter or that endangers property
or public safety.
   B.   Jurisdiction. This Chapter applies to post construction sites within
the boundaries and jurisdiction of the Village of Rochester.
   C.   Exclusions. This Chapter is not applicable to activities conducted by a
state agency, as defined under Wis. Stat. s. 227.01(1), but also including the
office of district attorney, which is subject to the state plan promulgated or
a memorandum of understanding entered into under Wis. Stat. s. 281.33(2).
32-5. DEFINITIONS.
   “Administering authority” means a governmental employee, or a regional
planning commission empowered under Wis. Stat. s. 61.354 that is designated by
the Village Board to administer this Chapter.
   “Agricultural facility” and “Agricultural practice” have the meanings given
in Wis. Stat. s. 281.16.
   “Average annual rainfall” means a calendar year of precipitation, excluding
snow, which is considered typical.
   “Best management practice” or “BMP” means structural or non-structural
measures, practices, techniques or devices employed to avoid or minimize
sediment or pollutants carried in runoff to waters of the state.
   “Business day” means a day the office of the Zoning Administrator is
routinely and customarily open for business.
   “Cease and desist order” means a court-issued order to halt land disturbing
construction activity that is being conducted without the required permit.
   “Combined sewer system” means a system for conveying both sanitary sewage
and storm water runoff.
   “Connected imperviousness" means an impervious surface that is directly
connected to a separate storm sewer or water of the state via an impervious
flow path.
   “Design storm” means a hypothetical discrete rainstorm characterized by a
specific duration, temporal distribution, rainfall intensity, return frequency,
and total depth of rainfall.
   “Development” means residential, commercial, industrial or institutional
land uses and associated roads.
   “Division of land” means the creation from one parcel of four or more
parcels or building sites of five or fewer acres each in area where such
creation occurs at one time or through the successive partition within a five
year period, or such lesser amounts as may be set forth in Chapter 16 of this
Municipal Code.
   “Effective infiltration area” means the area of the infiltration system that
is used to infiltrate runoff and does not include the area used for site
access, berms or pretreatment.
   “Erosion” means the process by which the land’s surface is worn away by the
action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
   "Exceptional resource waters" means waters listed in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR
102.11.
   “Extraterritorial” means the unincorporated area within 3 miles of the
corporate limits of a first, second, or third class city, or within 1.5 miles
of a fourth class city or village.
   "Final stabilization" means that all land disturbing construction activities
at the construction site have been completed and that a uniform, perennial,
vegetative cover has been established, with a density of at least 70% of the
cover, for the unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or
employment of equivalent permanent stabilization measures.
   “Financial guarantee” means a performance bond, maintenance bond, surety
bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or similar guarantees submitted to the
zoning administrator by the responsible party to assure that requirements of
the Chapter are carried out in compliance with the storm water management plan.
   “Governing body” means town board of supervisors, county board of
supervisors, city council, village board of trustees or village council.
   “Impervious surface” means an area that releases as runoff all or a large
portion of the precipitation that falls on it, except for frozen soil.
Rooftops, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots and streets are examples of areas
that typically are impervious.
   “In-fill area” means an undeveloped area of land located within existing
development.
   “Infiltration” means the entry of precipitation or runoff into or through
the soil.
   “Infiltration system” means a device or practice such as a basin, trench,
rain garden or swale designed specifically to encourage infiltration, but does
not include natural infiltration in pervious surfaces such as lawns,
redirecting of rooftop downspouts onto lawns or minimal infiltration from
practices, such as swales or road side channels designed for conveyance and
pollutant removal only.
   “Karst feature” means an area or surficial geologic feature subject to
bedrock dissolution so that it is likely to provide a conduit to groundwater,
and may include caves, enlarged fractures, mine features, exposed bedrock
surfaces, sinkholes, springs, seeps or swallets.
   “Land disturbing construction activity” means any man-made alteration of the
land surface resulting in a change in the topography or existing vegetative or
non-vegetative soil cover, that may result in runoff and lead to an increase in
soil erosion and movement of sediment into waters of the state. Land disturbing
construction activity includes clearing and grubbing, demolition, excavating,
pit trench dewatering, filling and grading activities.
   “Maintenance agreement” means a legal document that provides for long-term
maintenance of storm water management practices.
   “MEP” or “maximum extent practicable” means a level of implementing best
management practices in order to achieve a performance standard specified in
this Chapter which takes into account the best available technology, cost
effectiveness and other competing issues such as human safety and welfare,
endangered and threatened resources, historic properties and geographic
features. MEP allows flexibility in the way to meet the performance standards
and may vary based on the performance standard and site conditions.
   “New development” means development resulting from the conversion of
previously undeveloped land or agricultural land uses.
   “Off-site” means located outside the property boundary described in the
permit application.
   “On-site” means located within the property boundary described in the permit
application.
   "Ordinary high-water mark" has the meaning given in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR
115.03(6).
   “Outstanding resource waters” means waters listed in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR
102.10.
   “Percent fines” means the percentage of a given sample of soil, which passes
through a #200 sieve.
   “Performance standard” means a narrative or measurable number specifying the
minimum acceptable outcome for a facility or practice.
   “Permit” means a written authorization made by the Zoning Administrator to
the applicant to conduct land disturbing construction activity or to discharge
post-construction runoff to waters of the state.
   “Permit administration fee” means a sum of money, in an amount set by the
Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, paid to the Zoning
Administrator by the permit applicant for the purpose of recouping the expenses
incurred by the authority in administering the permit.
   “Pervious surface” means an area that releases as runoff a small portion of
the precipitation that falls on it. Lawns, gardens, parks, forests or other
similar vegetated areas are examples of surfaces that typically are pervious.
   “Pollutant” has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 283.01(13).
   “Pollution” has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 281.01(10).
   “Post-construction site" means a construction site following the completion
of land disturbing construction activity and final site stabilization.
   “Pre-development condition” means the extent and distribution of land cover
types present before the initiation of land disturbing construction activity,
assuming that all land uses prior to development activity are managed in an
environmentally sound manner.
   “Preventive action limit” has the meaning given in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR
140.05(17).
   "Redevelopment ” means areas where development is replacing older
development.
   “Responsible party” means any entity holding fee title to the property or
other person contracted or obligated by other agreement to implement and
maintain post-construction storm water BMPs.
   “Runoff” means storm water or precipitation including rain, snow or ice melt
or similar water that moves on the land surface via sheet or channelized flow.
   “Separate storm sewer” means a conveyance or system of conveyances including
roads with drainage systems, streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches,
constructed channels or storm drains, which meets all of the following
criteria:
      A.   Is designed or used for collecting water or conveying runoff.
      B.   Is not part of a combined sewer system.
      C.   Is not draining to a storm water treatment device or system.
      D.   Discharges directly or indirectly to waters of the state.
   “Site” means the entire area included in the legal description of the land
on which the land disturbing construction activity occurred.
   “Stop work order” means an order issued by the Zoning Administrator which
requires that all construction activity on the site be stopped.
   “Storm water management plan” means a comprehensive plan designed to reduce
the discharge of pollutants from storm water after the site has undergone final
stabilization following completion of the construction activity.
   “Storm water management system plan” is a comprehensive plan designed to
reduce the discharge of runoff and pollutants from hydrologic units on a
regional or municipal scale.
   "Technical standard" means a document that specifies design, predicted
performance and operation and maintenance specifications for a material, device
or method.
   “Top of the channel” means an edge, or point on the landscape, landward from
the ordinary high-water mark of a surface water of the state, where the slope
of the land begins to be less than 12% continually for at least 50 feet. If the
slope of the land is 12% or less continually for the initial 50 feet, landward
from the ordinary high-water mark, the top of the channel is the ordinary high-
water mark.
   “TR-55” means the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
Conservation Service (previously Soil Conservation Service), Urban Hydrology
for Small Watersheds, Second Edition, Technical Release 55, June 1986.
   “Type II distribution” means a rainfall type curve as established in the
“United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, Technical
Paper 149, published 1973”. The Type II curve is applicable to all of Wisconsin
and represents the most intense storm pattern.
   “Waters of the state” has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 281.01(18).
32-6. TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   The following methods shall be used in designing the water quality, peak
flow shaving and infiltration components of storm water practices needed to
meet the water quality standards of this Chapter:
   A.   Technical standards identified, developed or disseminated by the
Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources under subchapter V of Wis. Admin.
Code ch. NR 151.
   B.   Where technical standards have not been identified or developed by the
Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, other technical standards may be
used provided that the methods have been approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   C.   In this Chapter, the following year and location has been selected as
average annual rainfall: Milwaukee, 1969 (Mar. 28-Dec. 6).
32-7. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   A.   Responsible Party. The responsible party shall implement a post-
construction storm water management plan that incorporates the requirements of
this section.
   B.   Plan. A written storm water management plan in accordance with s.
32-9 shall be developed and implemented for each post-construction site.
   C.   Requirements. The plan required under subsection B shall include the
following:
      1.   Surface Flow. Natural swales and depressisonal storage areas shall
be incorporated into stormwater facility design wherever practical. Swales and
ditches, together with any underground storm sewer system, shall provide an
adequate outfall for runoff from the 100-year frequency 24-hour duration storm.
In areas where swales/ ditches can not be provided, the underground storm sewer
system shall be designed for the 100-storm condition. The developer shall
submit to the Village design computation for the 100-year overland flow routes.
      2.   Storm Sewer. Where required by the Zoning Administrator or Village
Engineer, storm sewers may be constructed to drain the development and any
contiguous drainage areas. The developer shall submit to the Village two copies
of the storm sewer design computation, including pipe design, inlet spacing,
inlet capacity and hydraulic grade line.
      3.   Stormwater Detention. Stormwater detention is subject to review by
the Zoning Administrator and Village Engineer. Detention basins shall have a
high water level based on a 100-year design. The basin berm shall have one foot
of freeboard above the 100-year high water level. The detention basin shall
have an outlet based on the 100-year recurrence interval of the land in its
natural pre-development state. Detention to be provided shall be for the entire
site in its natural state, and off-site tributary flows shall be bypassed
either through or around the detention facility. The stormwater detention
facility shall be constructed and functioning prior to general site
construction activities. Existing mapped wetlands, as determined by the
Village, may not be used to provide the required stormwater detention volume
unless authorized by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers and the Village Engineer.
      4.   Total Suspended Solids. BMPs shall be designed, installed and
maintained to control total suspended solids carried in runoff from the post-
construction site as follows:
         a.   For new development, by design, reduce to the maximum extent
practicable, the total suspended solids load by 80%, based on the average
annual rainfall, as compared to no runoff management controls. No person shall
be required to exceed an 80% total suspended solids reduction to meet the
requirements of this subsection.
         b.   For redevelopment, by design, reduce to the maximum extent
practicable, the total suspended solids load by 40%, based on the average
annual rainfall, as compared to no runoff management controls. No person shall
be required to exceed a 40% total suspended solids reduction to meet the
requirements of this subsection.
         c.   For in-fill development under five acres that occurs within ten
years after the effective date of this Chapter, by design, reduce to the
maximum extent practicable, the total suspended solids load by 40%, based on an
average annual rainfall, as compared to no runoff management controls. No
person shall be required to exceed a 40% total suspended solids reduction to
meet the requirements of this subsection.
         d.   For in-fill development that occurs ten or more years after the
effective date of this Chapter, by design, reduce to the maximum extent
practicable, the total suspended solids load by 80%, based on an average annual
rainfall, as compared to no runoff management controls. No person shall be
required to exceed an 80% total suspended solids reduction to meet the
requirements of this subsection.
         e.   Notwithstanding subsections. a. to d., if the design cannot
achieve the applicable total suspended solids reduction specified, the storm
water management plan shall include a written and site-specific explanation why
that level of reduction is not attained and the total suspended solids load
shall be reduced to the maximum extent practicable.
      5.   Peak Discharge.
         a.   By design, BMPs shall be employed to maintain or reduce the peak
runoff discharge rates, to the maximum extent practicable, as compared to pre-
development conditions for the two-year, 24-hour design storm and the 100-year,
24-hour design storm applicable to the post-construction site. For large
tributary areas a critical duration analysis may be required. Pre- development
conditions shall assume “good hydrologic conditions” for appropriate land
covers as identified in TR-55 or an equivalent methodology. The meaning of
“hydrologic soil group” and “runoff curve number” are as determined in TR-55.
However, when pre-development land cover is cropland, rather than using TR-55
values for cropland, the runoff curve numbers in Table 1 shall be used.
 
Table 1 – Maximum Pre-Development Runoff Curve Numbers for Cropland Areas
Hydrologic Soil Group A  B  C  C
Runoff Curve Number   56 70 79 83
 
         b.   All developments shall be subject to and in compliance with the
following Base Level Standards for discharge rates.
            (1)   The 100-year post-development peak runoff discharge shall not
exceed the most restrictive of the following standards:
               (a)   0.30 cubic feet per second (cfs) per developed acre, or
               (b)   Maximum hydraulic capacity of existing downstream
conveyance facilities as determined by the Village.
            (2)   The post-development runoff discharges for storms up to and
including the 2-year storms shall not exceed 0.04 cfs per developed acre.
            (3)   The hydrologic and hydraulic analyses for evaluating pre- and
post-development runoff characteristics shall utilize the precipitation
frequency information developed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) and endorsed by the Southeastern Wisconsin Regional
Planning Commission (SEWRPC). Stormwater models shall utilize the SEWRPC 2006
rainfall distribution or the NRCS distribution appropriate to NOAA Atlas 14.
            (4)   Storm water runoff from areas tributary to the site shall be
considered in the equations for the design of the project site's drainage
system.
      6.   Infiltration. BMPs shall be designed, installed, and maintained to
infiltrate runoff to the maximum extent practicable in accordance with the
following, except as provided in subsections e. through h.
         a.   For residential developments one of the following shall be met:
            (1)   Infiltrate sufficient runoff volume so that the post-
development infiltration volume shall be at least 90% of the pre-development
infiltration volume, based on an average annual rainfall. However, when
designing appropriate infiltration systems to meet this requirement, no more
than 1% of the project site is required as an effective infiltration area.
            (2)   Infiltrate 25% of the post-development runoff from the two-
year, 24-hour design storm with a type II distribution. Separate curve numbers
for pervious and impervious surfaces shall be used to calculate runoff volumes
and not composite curve numbers as defined in TR-55. However, when designing
appropriate infiltration systems to meet this requirement, no more than 1% of
the project site is required as an effective infiltration area.
         b.   For non-residential development, including commercial, industrial
and institutional development, one of the following shall be met:
            (1)   Infiltrate sufficient runoff volume so that the post-
development infiltration volume shall be at least 60% of the pre-development
infiltration volume, based on an average annual rainfall. However, when
designing appropriate infiltration systems to meet this requirement, no more
than 2% of the project site is required as an effective infiltration area.
            (2)   Infiltrate 10% of the runoff from the two-year, 24-hour
design storm with a type II distribution. Separate curve numbers for pervious
and impervious surfaces shall be used to calculate runoff volumes, and not
composite curve numbers as defined in TR-55. However, when designing
appropriate infiltration systems to meet this requirement, no more than 2% of
the project site is required as an effective infiltration area.
         c.   Pre-development condition shall be the same as in subsection. 5.
         d.   Before infiltrating runoff, pretreatment shall be required for
parking lot runoff and for runoff from new road construction in commercial,
industrial and institutional areas that will enter an infiltration system. The
pretreatment shall be designed to protect the infiltration system from clogging
prior to scheduled maintenance and to protect groundwater quality in accordance
with subsection h. Pretreatment options may include, but are not limited to,
oil/grease separation, sedimentation, biofiltration, filtration, swales or
filter strips.
         e.   Exclusions. The runoff from the following areas are prohibited
from meeting the requirements of this subsection:
            (1)   Areas associated with tier 1 industrial facilities identified
in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 216.21(2)(a), including storage, loading, rooftop and
parking.
            (2)   Storage and loading areas of tier 2 industrial facilities
identified in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 216.21(2)(b).
            (3)   Fueling and vehicle maintenance areas.
            (4)   Areas within 1000 feet upgradient or within 100 feet
downgradient of karst features.
            (5)   Areas with less than three feet separation distance from the
bottom of the infiltration system to the elevation of seasonal high groundwater
or the top of bedrock, except this subsection e.(5) does not prohibit
infiltration of roof runoff.
            (6)   Areas with runoff from industrial, commercial and
institutional parking lots and roads and residential arterial roads with less
than five feet separation distance from the bottom of the infiltration system
to the elevation of seasonal high groundwater or the top of bedrock.
            (7)   Areas within 400 feet of a community water system well as
specified in Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 811.12, or within 100 feet of a private
well as specified in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 812.08(4), for runoff infiltrated
from commercial, industrial and institutional land uses or regional devices for
residential development.
            (8)   Areas where contaminants of concern, as defined in Wis.
Admin. Code s. NR 720.03(2) are present in the soil through which infiltration
will occur.
            (9)   Any area where the soil does not exhibit one of the following
soil characteristics between the bottom of the infiltration system and the
seasonal high groundwater and top of bedrock: at least a three-foot soil layer
with 20% fines or greater; or at least a five- foot soil layer with 10% fines
or greater. This does not apply where the soil medium within the infiltration
system provides an equivalent level of protection. This subsection e(9) does
not prohibit infiltration of roof runoff.
         f.   Exemptions. The following are not required to meet the
requirements of this section:
            (1)   Areas where the infiltration rate of the soil is less than
0.6 inches/hour measured at the site.
            (2)   Parking areas and access roads less than 5,000 square feet
for commercial and industrial development.
            (3)   Redevelopment post-construction sites.
            (4)   In-fill development areas less than five acres.
            (5)   Infiltration areas during periods when the soil on the site
is frozen.
            (6)   Roads in commercial, industrial and institutional land uses,
and arterial residential roads.
         g.   Where alternate uses of runoff are employed, such as for toilet
flushing, laundry or irrigation, such alternate use shall be given equal credit
toward the infiltration volume required by this section.
         h.   (1)   Infiltration systems designed in accordance with this
section shall, to the extent technically and economically feasible, minimize
the level of pollutants infiltrating to groundwater and shall maintain
compliance with the preventive action limit at a point of standards application
in accordance with Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 140. However, if site specific
information indicates that compliance with a preventive action limit is not
achievable, the infiltration BMP may not be installed or shall be modified to
prevent infiltration to the maximum extent practicable.
            (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (1), the discharge from BMPs shall
remain below the enforcement standard at the point of standards application.
      7.   Protective Areas.
         a.   “Protective area” means an area of land that commences at the top
of the channel of lakes, streams and rivers, or at the delineated boundary of
wetlands, and that is the greatest of the following widths, as measured
horizontally from the top of the channel or delineated wetland boundary to the
closest impervious surface. However, in this section, “protective area” does
not include any area of land adjacent to any stream enclosed within a pipe or
culvert, such that runoff cannot enter the enclosure at this location.
            (1)   For outstanding resource waters and exceptional resource
waters, and for wetlands in areas of special natural resource interest as
specified in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 103.04, 75 feet.
            (2)   For perennial and intermittent streams identified on a United
States geological survey 7.5-minute series topographic map, or a county soil
survey map, whichever is more current, 50 feet.
            (3)   For lakes, 50 feet.
            (4)   For highly susceptible wetlands, 50 feet. Highly susceptible
wetlands include the following types: fens, sedge meadows, bogs, low prairies,
conifer swamps, shrub swamps, other forested wetlands, fresh wet meadows,
shallow marshes, deep marshes and seasonally flooded basins. Wetland boundary
delineations shall be made in accordance with Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 103.08
(1m). This section does not apply to wetlands that have been completely filled
in accordance with all applicable state and federal regulations. The protective
area for wetlands that have been partially filled in accordance with all
applicable state and federal regulations shall be measured from the wetland
boundary delineation after fill has been placed.
            (5)   For less susceptible wetlands, ten percent of the average
wetland width, but no less than ten feet nor more than 30 feet. Less
susceptible wetlands include degraded wetlands dominated by invasive species
such as reed canary grass.
            (6)   In subsections a.(1), (4) and (5), determinations of the
extent of the protective area adjacent to wetlands shall be made on the basis
of the sensitivity and runoff susceptibility of the wetland in accordance with
the standards and criteria in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 103.03.
            (7)   For concentrated flow channels with drainage areas greater
than 130 acres, 10 feet.
         b.   This section applies to post-construction sites located within a
protective area, except those areas exempted pursuant to subsection d.
         c.   The following requirements shall be met:
            (1)   Impervious surfaces shall be kept out of the protective area
to the maximum extent practicable. The storm water management plan shall
contain a written site- specific explanation for any parts of the protective
area that are disturbed during construction.
            (2)   Where land disturbing construction activity occurs within a
protective area, and where no impervious surface is present, adequate sod or
self-sustaining vegetative cover of 70% or greater shall be established and
maintained. The adequate sod or self- sustaining vegetative cover shall be
sufficient to provide for bank stability, maintenance of fish habitat and
filtering of pollutants from upslope overland flow areas under sheet flow
conditions. Non-vegetative materials, such as rock riprap, may be employed on
the bank as necessary to prevent erosion, such as on steep slopes or where high
velocity flows occur.
            (3)   Best management practices such as filter strips, swales, or
wet detention basins, that are designed to control pollutants from non-point
sources may be located in the protective area.
         d.   This section does not apply to:
            (1)   Redevelopment post-construction sites.
            (2)   In-fill development areas less than five acres.
            (3)   Structures that cross or access surface waters such as boat
landings, bridges and culverts.
            (4)   Structures constructed in accordance with Wis. Stat. s.
59.692(1v).
            (5)   Post-construction sites from which runoff does not enter the
surface water, except to the extent that vegetative ground cover is necessary
to maintain bank stability.
      8.   Fueling and Vehicle Maintenance Areas. Fueling and vehicle
maintenance areas shall, to the maximum extent practicable, have BMPs designed,
installed and maintained to reduce petroleum within runoff, such that the
runoff that enters waters of the state contains no visible petroleum sheen.
      9.   Site Drainage. Measures shall be implemented to ensure proper site
drainage, prevent property damage and protect public health and safety, and
include the following minimum requirements:
         a.   Drainage easement. Perpetual drainage easements or other deed
restrictions shall be recorded on the property to preserve major storm water
flow paths and permanent storm water BMP locations. Covenants in these areas
shall not allow buildings or other structures and shall prevent any grading,
filling or other activities that interrupt or obstruct flows in any way.
Covenants shall also specify maintenance responsibilities and authorities in
accordance with section
32-10.
         b.   Site grading. Site grading shall ensure positive flows away from
all buildings, be coordinated with the general storm water drainage patterns
for the area, and minimize adverse impacts on adjacent properties.
         c.   Street drainage. All street drainage shall be designed to prevent
concentrated flows from crossing the traffic lanes to the maximum extent
practicable. Design flow depths at the road centerline for on-street drainage,
shall not exceed six inches during the peak flows generated by the 100-year,
24-hour design storm, using planned land use conditions for the entire
contributing watershed area.
         d.   Bridges and cross-culverts. All new or modified bridges and
cross-culverts shall comply with applicable design standards and regulations,
facilitate fish passage and prevent increased flooding or channel erosion
upstream or downstream from the structure. Design flow depths at the road
centerline for all crossings shall not exceed six inches during the peak flows
generated by the 100-year, 24-hour design storm, using planned land use
conditions for the entire contributing watershed area. All predevelopment
runoff storage areas within the flow path upstream of bridges and cross-
culverts shall be preserved and designated as drainage easements, unless
compensatory storage is provided and accounted for in modeling.
         e.   Subsurface drainage requirements.
            (1)   Basement floor surfaces shall be built one foot above the
seasonal high water table elevation, as documented in the submitted soil
evaluations, and shall avoid hydric soils as much as possible.
            (2)   A subsurface drainage investigation shall be required if the
Village Engineer determines that agricultural subsurface drainage systems may
be present on a proposed development site subject to this article. The
subsurface drainage investigation shall be conducted as specified in Chapter
30, Land Division, of this Municipal Code.
         f.   Open channels. All open channel drainage systems shall at a
minimum be designed to carry the peak flows from a ten-year, 24-hour design
storm using planned land use for the entire contributing watershed area. Side
slopes shall be no steeper than 4h:1v unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer for unique site conditions. Open channels that carry runoff from more
than 130 acres shall at a minimum be designed to carry the peak flows from a
25-year, 24-hour design storm.
         g.   Storm sewers. All storm sewers shall be designed as follows and
in accordance with Chapter 30, Land Division, of this Municipal Code.
            (1)   Storm sewers shall be designed in accordance with the
Wisconsin DOT Facilities design manual. Storm sewers shall be designed to flow
full, using Manning's Formula with an appropriate roughness coefficient based
on pipe material. If a storm sewer is designed with a constantly submerged
outfall, the sewer shall be designed using the "hydraulic gradient" with the
maximum allowable water level an elevation one foot below centerline of
pavement.
            (2)   The rational method shall be employed when computing storm
runoff. The storm system shall be designed with "positive street and swale
drainage" such that storm water runoff will be directed overland to the storm
water detention area in a manner to minimize property damage due to flooding.
            (3)   Storm sewers shall be designed for a minimum ten-year storm
event flowing full. The pipes shall be sloped to achieve the minimum three feet
per section (fps) self-cleaning velocity and have a maximum velocity not
exceeding twelve fps.
            (4)   In areas where curb and gutter and storm sewers are required,
inlets shall be installed so that the drainage reach for each inlet shall not
exceed 400 feet. Where the inlet is located at a low point, additional inlets
may be required by the Village Engineer. No more than two inlets shall be
interconnected. Inlets shall be so located that storm water runoff will not
"pond" greater than the top of the street curbs. Depressed street crowns to
facilitate drainage will not be permitted.
            (5)   Rear lot drainage should not drain along the side yard, over
the sidewalk and curb. Rear yard inlets shall be placed where approved or as
required by the Village Engineer.
            (6)   The minimum size storm sewer or inlet connection shall be
twelve inches in diameter.
            (7)   Connections to sanitary sewers or existing agricultural
drainage systems (tiles) will not be permitted for any new developments. All
developments will utilize separate drainage systems to avoid disruption or
overloading of the existing agricultural tile drainage system. Any field tile
systems cut during the process of land development must be reconnected.
Connection of existing agricultural drain tiles to new storm water management
systems may be approved if proper allowance for flows from said tiles is
incorporated in the new design system.
         h.   Structure protection and safety. Flows generated by the 100-year,
24-hour design storm under planned land use conditions may exceed the design
capacity of conveyance systems, but shall not come in contact with any
buildings. For buildings designed for human occupation on a regular basis, the
following additional requirements shall apply:
            (1)   The lowest elevation of the structure that is exposed to the
ground surface shall be a minimum of one foot above the maximum water elevation
produced by the 100-year, 24 hour design storm, including flows through any
storm water BMP that may temporarily or permanently store water at a depth of
greater than one foot; and
            (2)   The structure shall be set back at least 50 feet from any
storm water BMP that may temporarily or permanently store water at a depth of
greater than one foot. Setback distance shall be measured from the closest edge
of water at the elevation produced by the 100-year, 24-hour design storm.
   D.   General Considerations for On-site and Off-site Storm Water Management
Measures. The following considerations shall be observed in managing runoff:
      1.   Natural topography and land cover features such as natural swales,
natural depressions, native soil infiltrating capacity, and natural groundwater
recharge areas shall be preserved and used, to the extent possible, to meet the
requirements of this section.
      2.   Emergency overland flow for all storm water facilities shall be
provided to prevent exceeding the safe capacity of downstream drainage
facilities and prevent endangerment of downstream property or public safety.
      3.   Specific design standards for detention pond design.
      4.   Specific design criteria.
   E.   Location and Regional Treatment Option.
      1.   The BMPs may be located on-site or off-site as part of a regional
storm water device, practice or system.
      2.   Post-construction runoff within a non-navigable surface water that
flows into a BMP, such as a wet detention pond, is not required to meet the
performance standards of this Chapter. Post-construction BMPs may be located in
nonnavigable surface waters.
      3.   Except as allowed under subsection 4., post-construction runoff from
new development shall meet the post-construction performance standards prior to
entering a navigable surface water.
      4.   Post-construction runoff from any development within a navigable
surface water that flows into a BMP is not required to meet the performance
standards of this Chapter if:
         a.   The BMP was constructed prior to the effective date of this
Chapter and the BMP either received a permit issued under Wis. Stat. ch. 30 or
the BMP did not require a Wis. Stat. ch. 30 permit; and
         b.   The BMP is designed to provide runoff treatment from future
upland development.
      5.   Runoff from existing development, redevelopment and in-fill areas
shall meet the post-construction performance standards in accordance with this
section.
         a.   To the maximum extent practicable, BMPs shall be located to treat
runoff prior to discharge to navigable surface waters.
         b.   Post-construction BMPs for such runoff may be located in a
navigable surface water if allowable under all other applicable federal, state
and local regulations such as Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 103 and Wis. Stat. ch.
30.
      6.   The discharge of runoff from a BMP, such as a wet detention pond, or
after a series of such BMPs is subject to this chapter.
      7.   The Zoning Administrator may approve off-site management measures
provided that all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The Zoning Administrator determines that the post-construction
runoff is covered by a storm water management system plan that is approved by
the Village of Rochester and that contains management requirements consistent
with the purpose and intent of this Chapter.
         b.   The off-site facility meets all of the following conditions:
            (1)   The facility is in place.
            (2)   The facility is designed and adequately sized to provide a
level of storm water control equal to or greater than that which would be
afforded by on-site practices meeting the performance standards of this
Chapter.
         c.   The facility has a legally obligated entity responsible for its
long-term operation and maintenance.
      8.   Where a regional treatment option exists such that the Zoning
Administrator exempts the applicant from all or part of the minimum on-site
storm water management requirements, the applicant shall be required to pay a
fee in an amount determined in negotiation with the Zoning Administrator. In
determining the fee for post-construction runoff, the Zoning Administrator
shall consider an equitable distribution of the cost for land, engineering
design, construction, and maintenance of the regional treatment option.
   F.   Alternate Requirements. The Zoning Administrator may establish storm
water management requirements more stringent than those set forth in this
section if the Zoning Administrator determines that an added level of
protection is needed to protect sensitive resources.
32-8. PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURES AND FEES.
   A.   Permit Required. No responsible party may undertake a land disturbing
construction activity without receiving a post-construction runoff permit from
the Zoning Administrator prior to commencing the proposed activity.
   B.   Permit Application and Fees. Unless specifically excluded by this
Chapter, any responsible party desiring a permit shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator a permit application made on a form provided by the Zoning
Administrator for that purpose.
      1.   Unless otherwise excepted by this Chapter, a permit application must
be accompanied by a storm water management plan, erosion control plan, storm-
water calculations, a maintenance agreement and a non-refundable permit
administration fee in an amount set by the Village Board as shown in the Fee
Schedule.
      2.   The storm water management plan shall be prepared to meet the
requirements of ss.
32-7 and
32-9, the maintenance agreement shall be prepared to meet the requirements of
s.
32-10, the financial guarantee shall meet the requirements of s.
32-11, and fees shall be those established by the Village Board as set forth in
s.
32-30.
   C.   Review and Approval of Permit Application. The Zoning Administrator
shall review any permit application that is submitted with a storm water
management plan, maintenance agreement, and the required fee. The following
approval procedure shall be used:
      1.   Within 30 business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application, including all items as required by subsection B., the Zoning
Administrator shall inform the applicant whether the application, plan and
maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved based on the requirements of
this Chapter.
      2.   If the storm water permit application, plan and maintenance
agreement are approved, or if an agreed upon payment of fees in lieu of storm
water management practices is made, the Zoning Administrator shall issue the
permit.
      3.   If the storm water permit application, plan or maintenance agreement
is disapproved, the Zoning Administrator shall detail in writing the reasons
for disapproval.
      4.   The Zoning Administrator may request additional information from the
applicant. If additional information is submitted, the Zoning Administrator
shall have 20 business days from the date the additional information is
received to inform the applicant that the plan and maintenance agreement are
either approved or disapproved.
      5.   Failure by the Zoning Administrator to inform the permit applicant
of a decision within 20 business days of a required submittal shall be deemed
to mean approval of the submittal and the applicant may proceed as if a permit
had been issued.
   D.   Permit Requirements. All permits issued under this Chapter shall be
subject to the following conditions, and holders of permits issued under this
Chapter shall be deemed to have accepted these conditions. The Zoning
Administrator may suspend or revoke a permit for violation of a permit
condition, following written notification of the responsible party. An action
by the Zoning Administrator to suspend or revoke this permit may be appealed in
accordance with s.
32-31.
      1.   Compliance with this permit does not relieve the responsible party
of the responsibility to comply with other applicable federal, state, and local
laws and regulations.
      2.   The responsible party shall design and install all structural and
non-structural storm water management measures in accordance with the approved
storm water management plan and this permit.
      3.   The responsible party shall notify the Zoning Administrator at least
five business days before commencing any work in conjunction with the
stormwater management plan, and within five business days upon completion of
the stormwater management practices. If required as a special condition under
subsection E., the responsible party shall make additional notification
according to a schedule set forth by the Zoning Administrator so that practice
installations can be inspected during construction.
      4.   Practice installations required as part of this Chapter shall be
certified "as built" by a licensed professional engineer. Completed storm water
management practices must pass a final inspection by the Zoning Administrator
or its designee to determine if they are in accordance with the approved storm
water management plan and this Chapter. The Zoning Administrator or its
designee shall notify the responsible party in writing of any changes required
in such practices to bring them into compliance with the conditions of this
permit.
      5.   The responsible party shall notify the Zoning Administrator of any
significant modifications it intends to make to an approved storm water
management plan. The Zoning Administrator may require that the proposed
modifications be submitted to it for approval prior to incorporation into the
storm water management plan and execution by the responsible party.
      6.   The responsible party shall maintain all storm water management
practices in accordance with the storm water management plan until the
practices either become the responsibility of the Village Board, or are
transferred to subsequent private owners as specified in the approved
maintenance agreement.
      7.   The responsible party authorizes the Zoning Administrator to perform
any work or operations necessary to bring storm water management measures into
conformance with the approved storm water management plan, and consents to a
special assessment or special charge against the property as authorized under
Wis. Stat. ch. 66 or to charging such costs against the financial guarantee
posted under s.
32-11.
      8.   If so directed by the Zoning Administrator, the responsible party
shall repair at the responsible party's own expense all damage to adjoining
municipal facilities and drainage ways caused by runoff, where such damage is
caused by activities that are not in compliance with the approved storm water
management plan.
      9.   The responsible party shall permit property access to the Zoning
Administrator or its designee for the purpose of inspecting the property for
compliance with the approved storm water management plan and this permit.
      10.   Where site development or redevelopment involves changes in
direction, increases in peak rate and/or total volume of runoff from a site,
the Zoning Administrator may require the responsible party to make appropriate
legal arrangements with affected property owners concerning the prevention of
endangerment to property or public safety.
      11.   The responsible party is subject to the enforcement actions and
penalties detailed in s.
32-12 and
32-50 if the responsible party fails to comply with the terms of this permit.
   E.   Permit Conditions. Permits issued under this Chapter may include
conditions established by the Zoning Administrator in addition to the
requirements needed to meet the performance standards in s.
32-7 or a financial guarantee as provided for in s.
32-11.
   F.    Permit Duration. Permits issued under this Chapter shall be valid from
the date of issuance through the date the Zoning Administrator notifies the
responsible party that all storm water management practices have passed the
final inspection required under subsection D.4.
32-9. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A.   PLAN REQUIREMENTS. The storm water management plan required under s.
32-8B shall contain at a minimum the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number for the following or their
designees: landowner; developer; project engineer for practice design and
certification; person(s) responsible for installation of storm water management
practices; and person(s) responsible for maintenance of storm water management
practices prior to the transfer, if any, of maintenance responsibility to
another party.
      2.   A proper legal description of the property proposed to be developed,
referenced to the U.S. Public Land Survey system or to block and lot numbers
within a recorded land subdivision plat.
      3.   Pre-development site conditions, including:
         a.   One or more site maps at a scale of not less than one inch equals
50 feet. The site maps shall show the following: site location and legal
property description; predominant soil types and hydrologic soil groups;
existing cover type and condition; topographic contours of the site at a scale
not to exceed two feet; topography and drainage network including contiguous
properties extending at least 50-feet beyond the site boundary to show runoff
patterns onto, through, and from the site; watercourses that may affect or be
affected by runoff from the site; flow path and direction for all storm water
conveyance sections; watershed boundaries used in hydrology determinations to
show compliance with performance standards; lakes, streams, wetlands, channels,
ditches, and other watercourses on and immediately adjacent to the site; limits
of the 100 year floodplain; location of wells and wellhead protection areas
covering the project area and delineated pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code s. NR
811.12.
         b.   Hydrology and pollutant loading computations as needed to show
compliance with performance standards. All major assumptions used in developing
input parameters shall be clearly stated. The geographic areas used in making
the calculations shall be clearly cross-referenced to the required map(s).
      4.   Post-development site conditions, including:
         a.   Explanation of the provisions to preserve and use natural
topography and land cover features to minimize changes in peak flow runoff
rates and volumes to surface waters and wetlands.
         b.   Explanation of any restrictions on storm water management
measures in the development area imposed by wellhead protection plans and laws
and ordinances.
         c.   One or more site maps at a scale of not less than one inch equals
50 feet showing the following: post-construction pervious areas including
vegetative cover type and condition; impervious surfaces including all
buildings, structures, and pavement; post- construction topographic contours of
the site at a scale not to exceed two feet; post-construction drainage network
including enough of the contiguous properties to show runoff patterns onto,
through, and from the site; locations and dimensions of drainage easements;
locations of maintenance easements specified in the maintenance agreement; flow
path and direction for all storm water conveyance sections; location and type
of all storm water management conveyance and treatment practices, including the
on-site and off-site tributary drainage area; location and type of conveyance
system that will carry runoff from the drainage and treatment practices to the
nearest adequate outlet such as a curbed street, storm drain, or natural
drainage way; watershed boundaries used in hydrology and pollutant loading
calculations and any changes to lakes, streams, wetlands, channels, ditches,
and other watercourses on and immediately adjacent to the site.
         d.   Hydrology and pollutant loading computations as needed to show
compliance with performance standards. The computations shall be made for each
discharge point in the development, and the geographic areas used in making the
calculations shall be clearly cross-referenced to the required map(s).
         e.   Results of investigations of soils and groundwater required for
the placement and design of storm water management measures. Detailed drawings
including cross- sections and profiles of all permanent storm water conveyance
and treatment practices.
      5.   A description and installation schedule for the storm water
management practices needed to meet the performance standards in
32-7.
      6.   A maintenance plan developed for the life of each storm water
management practice including the required maintenance activities and
maintenance activity schedule.
      7.   Cost estimates for the construction, operation, and maintenance of
each storm water management practice.
      8.   Other information requested in writing by the Zoning Administrator
to determine compliance of the proposed storm water management measures with
the provisions of this Chapter.
      9.   All site investigations, plans, designs, computations, and drawings
shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer to be prepared in
accordance with accepted engineering practice and requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   Alternate Requirements. The Zoning Administrator may prescribe
alternative submittal requirements for applicants seeking an exemption to on-
site storm water management performance standards under
32-7E.
32-10. MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   A.   Maintenance Agreement Required. The maintenance agreement required
under s. 32-8B. for storm water management practices shall be an agreement
between the Zoning Administrator and the responsible party to provide for
maintenance of storm water practices beyond the duration period of this permit.
The maintenance agreement shall be filed with the Racine County Register of
Deeds as a property deed restriction so that it is binding upon all subsequent
owners of the land served by the storm water management practices.
   B.   Agreement Provisions. The maintenance agreement shall contain the
following information and provisions and be consistent with the maintenance
plan required by s.
32-9A.6.:
      1.   Identification of the storm water facilities and designation of the
drainage area served by the facilities.
      2.   A schedule for regular maintenance of each aspect of the storm water
management system consistent with the storm water management plan required
under s.
32-8B.
      3.   Identification of the responsible party(s), organization or city,
county, town or village responsible for long term maintenance of the storm
water management practices identified in the storm water management plan
required under s.
32-8B.
      4.   Requirement that the responsible party(s), organization, or city,
county, town or village shall maintain storm water management practices in
accordance with the schedule included in subsection 2.
      5.   Authorization for the Zoning Administrator to access the property to
conduct inspections of storm water management practices as necessary to
ascertain that the practices are being maintained and operated in accordance
with the agreement.
      6.   A requirement on the Zoning Administrator to maintain public records
of the results of the site inspections, to inform the responsible party
responsible for maintenance of the inspection results, and to specifically
indicate any corrective actions required to bring the storm water management
practice into proper working condition.
      7.   Agreement that the party designated under subsection 3. as
responsible for long term maintenance of the storm water management practices,
shall be notified by the Zoning Administrator of maintenance problems which
require correction. The specified corrective actions shall be undertaken within
a reasonable time frame as set by the Zoning Administrator.
      8.   Authorization of the Zoning Administrator to perform the corrected
actions identified in the inspection report if the responsible party designated
under subsection 3. does not make the required corrections in the specified
time period. The Zoning Administrator shall enter the amount due on the tax
rolls and collect the money as a special charge against the property pursuant
to Wis. Stat. ch. 66.
32-11. FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   A.   Establishment of the Guarantee. The Zoning Administrator may require
the submittal of a financial guarantee, the form and type of which shall be
acceptable to the Zoning Administrator. The financial guarantee shall be in an
amount determined by the Zoning Administrator to be the estimated cost of
construction and the estimated cost of maintenance of the storm water
management practices during the period which the designated party in the
maintenance agreement has maintenance responsibility. The financial guarantee
shall give the Zoning Administrator the authorization to use the funds to
complete the storm water management practices if the responsible party defaults
or does not properly implement the approved storm water management plan, upon
written notice to the responsible party by the Zoning Administrator that the
requirements of this Chapter have not been met.
   B.   Conditions for Release. Conditions for the release of the financial
guarantee are as follows:
      1.   The Zoning Administrator shall release the portion of the financial
guarantee established under this section, less any costs incurred by the Zoning
Administrator to complete installation of practices, upon submission of "as
built plans" by a licensed professional engineer. The Zoning Administrator may
make provisions for a partial pro-rata release of the financial guarantee based
on the completion of various development stages.
      2.   The Zoning Administrator shall release the portion of the financial
guarantee established under this section to assure maintenance of storm water
practices, less any costs incurred by the Zoning Administrator, at such time
that the responsibility for practice maintenance is passed on to another entity
via an approved maintenance agreement.
32-12. ENFORCEMENT.
   A.   Any land disturbing construction activity or post-construction runoff
initiated after the effective date of this Chapter by any person, firm,
association, or corporation subject to the Chapter provisions shall be deemed a
violation unless conducted in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the responsible party by
certified mail of any non- complying land disturbing construction activity or
post-construction runoff. The notice shall describe the nature of the
violation, remedial actions needed, a schedule for remedial action, and
additional enforcement action which may be taken.
   C.   Upon receipt of written notification from the Zoning Administrator
under subsection B., the responsible party shall correct work that does not
comply with the storm water management plan or other provisions of this permit.
The responsible party shall make corrections as necessary to meet the
specifications and schedule set forth by the Zoning Administrator in the
notice.
   D.   If the violations to a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter are
likely to result in damage to properties, public facilities, or waters of the
state, the Zoning Administrator may enter the land and take emergency actions
necessary to prevent such damage. The costs incurred by the Zoning
Administrator plus interest and legal costs shall be billed to the responsible
party.
   E.   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to post a stop work order on all
land disturbing construction activity that is in violation of this Chapter, or
to request the village attorney to obtain a cease and desist order in any court
with jurisdiction.
   F.   The Zoning Administrator may revoke a permit issued under this Chapter
for non- compliance with Chapter provisions.
   G.   Any permit revocation, stop work order, or cease and desist order shall
remain in effect unless retracted by the Zoning Administrator or by a court
with jurisdiction.
   H.   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to refer any violation of this
Chapter, or of a stop work order or cease and desist order issued pursuant to
this Chapter, to the village attorney for the commencement of further legal
proceedings in any court with jurisdiction.
   I.   When the Zoning Administrator determines that the holder of a permit
issued pursuant to this Chapter has failed to follow practices set forth in the
storm water management plan, or has failed to comply with schedules set forth
in said storm water management plan, the Zoning Administrator or a party
designated by the Zoning Administrator may enter upon the land and perform the
work or other operations necessary to bring the condition of said lands into
conformance with requirements of the approved plan. The Zoning Administrator
shall keep a detailed accounting of the costs and expenses of performing this
work. These costs and expenses shall be deducted from any financial security
posted pursuant to s.
32-11 of this Chapter. Where such a security has not been established, or where
such a security is insufficient to cover these costs, the costs and expenses
shall be entered on the tax roll as a special charge against the property and
collected with any other taxes levied thereon.
32-20. POND REGULATIONS.
   A.   Permit Required. No person shall construct or make improvements to any
pond located in the Village of Rochester without first obtaining site plan and
zoning permit approval from the Village Plan Commission and Village Board.
Except as set forth below, these provisions apply to all ponds including, but
not limited to, those ponds utilized for drainage, recreation, aesthetics,
sediment control, and fish management. Ponds to be constructed in the shoreland
and floodplain areas remain subject to the shoreland, wetland and floodplain
provisions of this Municipal Code which may limit such construction and will
require conditional use permits. Prior to issuance of a pond permit, the Zoning
Administrator will evaluate the application to determine whether the
Construction Site Erosion Control provisions in Chapter 31 of this Municipal
Code, or the Postconstruction Stormwater Drainage provisions of this Chapter,
apply, and if so, the applicant shall be required to follow those provisions.
   B.   Exceptions. The following ponds are excluded from the provisions of
this section: ponds with a depth of less than 24 inches, ponds with a diameter
less than 16 feet or an area less than 200 square feet, storm water drainage
ponds created by or for a drainage utility district, and ponds which have been
previously reviewed and approved as part of a Post Construction Erosion Control
Plan. Existing ponds are also excluded from the provisions of this section, but
any enlargement, dredging or modifications to such a pond requires site plan
and zoning permit approval from the Village Plan Commission and Village Board.
   C.   Site Plan Requirements. Before a zoning permit may be issued, the
applicant shall provide the Village with a detailed site plan of the proposed
pond excavation showing cross- sections, depth, area, safety ledges, proposed
elevations of the pond and slopes tied into mean sea level datum, dimensions of
the pond, location of the pond from existing property lines, and addressing the
disposition and storage of spoils from the excavation, and the timetable for
the starting and completing the pond.
   D.   Standards for Pond Construction.
      1.   Technical Requirements. Side slopes shall not exceed 4:1 or flatter
ratio. The boundaries of the pond, as shown on the approved site plan shall be
setback a minimum of 30 feet from all property lines. In addition, ponds shall
be constructed in conformance with the standards of the soil conservation
Service Technical Guide and where applicable the Wet Detention Basin of the
Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources Conservation Practices Standards.
      2.   Excavated material. All excavated material shall remain on site and
shall be integrated into the restoration of the pond area. No excavated
material from the project site shall be sold, given away, or otherwise removed
from the site in a manner in which the principal use of the property appears to
be soil removal, and pond construction appears to be a secondary result, unless
the applicant rezones the property to M-4, Quarry District and obtains
conditional use approval from the Village Plan Commission and Village Board.
   E.   Conditions to Permit. The Village Plan Commission and Village Board may
attach conditions to the issuance of the pond permit to address such things
(without limitation) as maintenance, weed control, depth of pond, landscaping
and aesthetics and measures to secure the pond to avoid personal injury to
frequenters, invitees, or trespassers. Other conditions appropriate to the area
under consideration may be added to permit by the Village Board, after
consultation with the Village Engineer, Zoning Administrator or Public Works
Supervisor.
   F.   Additional Permits. Prior to the construction pond the applicant is
responsible for obtaining all necessary pertinent permits from county, state,
and federal government agencies.
   G.   Permit Fee. No permit will be issued until the applicant has paid a
Permit Fee in an amount set by the Village Board and set forth in the Village
of Rochester Fee Schedule.
   H.   Abatement.
      1.   Notice to owner. In the event that any person shall construct or
make improvements to any pond located in the Village of Rochester without first
obtaining a site plan approval and zoning permit as required herein or who
shall construct or make improvements to any pond located in the Village or
Rochester, contrary to this Section, the Village may serve notice on the person
causing, permitting, or maintaining such a violation and upon the owner or the
occupant of the premises on which such a violation is caused, permitted, or
maintained and to post a copy of said notice on the premises. Such notice shall
direct that the person causing, permitting or maintaining such a violation or
the owner or the occupant of the premises to abate or remove each such
violation or to obtain the necessary permits required hereby within seven days
from the date of posting and shall state that unless such action is taken, the
Village will cause the same to be abated, removed or otherwise brought into
compliance and will charge the costs thereof to the owner, occupant, or person
causing permitting or maintaining the violation, as the case may be.
      2.   Abatement or restoration by the Village. If the action required by
the notice issued pursuant to this Section is not taken within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining
the violation cannot be found, the Village shall cause the abatement or removal
of the violation, and if necessary to bring the premises into compliance, the
Village shall take action to restore the property to a state consistent with
the conditions of the property prior to the construction of the pond or the
improvements made to the pond which were made in violation of this Section.
      3.   Cost of Abatement or Restoration. In addition to any other penalty
imposed for a violation of this Section, the cost of abating a violation of
this Section by the Village shall be collected as a debt from the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the violation, and if
notice to abate and/or remedy the violation has been given to the owner, or in
case of emergency, such costs shall be assessed against the real estate as a
special charge.
32-30. FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees referred to in other sections of this Chapter shall be established
by the Village Board and may from time to time be modified by resolution. A
schedule of the fees established by the Village Board shall be available for
review in the Village Clerk’s office.
32-31. APPEALS.
   A.   Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals, created pursuant to
Chapter 35 of the Village of Rochester Municipal Code, shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged that there is error in any order, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in administering this Chapter.
The Board of Appeals shall use the rules, procedures, duties, and powers
authorized by statute in hearing and deciding appeals. Upon appeal, the Board
of Appeals may authorize variances from the provisions of this Chapter that are
not contrary to the public interest, and where owing to special conditions a
literal enforcement of the Chapter will result in unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Who May Appeal. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any
aggrieved person or by an officer, department, board, or bureau of the Village
of Rochester affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator.
32-32. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this Chapter is judged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of the Chapter shall remain in force and not be affected by such judgment.
32-50. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Forfeitures. In addition to any other penalty set forth in this
Chapter, any person who does not comply with the provisions of this Chapter,
including constructing or making any improvements without obtaining the permits
required under this Chapter, shall be subject to a forfeiture in an amount set
forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code per offense, together with the costs of
prosecution. Each day that the violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
   B.   Injunctions. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter may also be
enforced by injunction in any court with jurisdiction. This remedy is in
addition to all other remedies set forth in this Chapter. It shall not be
necessary to prosecute for forfeiture or a cease and desist order before
resorting to injunctional proceedings.
CHAPTER 35 PLANNING AND ZONING
35-1 AUTHORITY
   This Chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Wis. Stat. chs. 61,
62 and 87, and such other statutes as may be applicable under the
circumstances.
35-2 PURPOSE
   The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the comfort, health, safety,
morals, prosperity, aesthetics, and general welfare of the Village of
Rochester.
35-3 INTENT
   It is the general intent of this Chapter to regulate and restrict the use of
all structures, lands, and waters; regulate and restrict lot coverage,
population distribution and density, and the size and location of all
structures so as to: lessen congestion in and promote the safety and efficiency
of the streets and highways; secure safety from fire, flooding, panic, and
other dangers; provide adequate light and air, including access to sunlight for
solar collectors and to wind for wind energy systems; provide adequate
sanitation and drainage; prevent overcrowding; avoid undue population
concentration; facilitate the adequate provision of public facilities and
utilities; stabilize and protect property values; preserve and promote the
beauty of the community; and implement those municipal, watershed, county and
regional comprehensive plans or components of such plans adopted by the Village
of Rochester. Floodplain zoning regulations, specifically set forth in
Chapter 37 of this Municipal Code, have been adopted to prevent and control
erosion, sedimentation, and other pollution of surface waters; to further the
maintenance of safe and healthful water conditions and prevent flood damage to
persons and property; and to minimize expenditures for flood relief and flood
control projects. To this end, it is further intended to provide for the
administration and enforcement of this Chapter and to provide penalties for its
violation.
35-4 ABROGATION OR GREATER RESTRICTIONS
   It is not intended by this Chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law. However,
wherever this Chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this
Chapter shall govern.
35-5 INTERPRETATION
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Village and shall not be construed to be a limitation or repeal of
any other power possessed by the Village powers or powers granted by the State.
If any provision could be construed to regulate the property or to exclude such
use from regulation, the provision shall be construed as regulating such use.
35-6 FEES
   All persons performing work or using land which by this Chapter or Chapters
30 through
39 requires the issuance of a permit, or review or action by the Village, shall
pay a fee to the Treasurer in an amount determined by the Village Board and set
forth in the Fee Schedule. Fees shall be charged for applications including but
not limited to the following:
   A.   Zoning Permit
   B.   Land Use Plan Amendment and Application for Rezoning or change to
Planning and Zoning Code
   C.   Site and Operational Plan Review
   D.   Conditional Use Application (Submit Zoning Permit and Conditional Use
Applications
   E.   Sign Permit (use Zoning Permit form)
   F.   Home Occupations.
   G.   Variance or Appeal Petition (Submit Zoning Permit and Variance or
Appeal Applications
   H.   Annexation Petition (by applicant)
   I   Construction Site Erosion Control Permit (see
Chapter 31)
   J.   Post Construction Stormwater and Pond Application (see
Chapter 32)
   K.   Extraterritorial Plat Review
   L.   Shoreland/Wetland and Shoreland Application, Certificate of Compliance
(see
Chapter 36)
   M.   Floodplain Application and Certificate of Compliance (see
Chapter 37)
   N.   Historic Preservation Certificate of Appropriateness (See
Chapter 38)
   O.   Temporary Use Permit
35-7 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this Chapter shall include all lands and waters within
the corporate limits of the Village of Rochester, Wisconsin. The terms of this
Chapter shall govern the remaining land use chapters where no specific
provisions for the items covered by this Chapter are provided therein.
35-8 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure, land, or water shall hereafter be used and no land or
structure shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, converted, or structurally altered except in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
35-9 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A.   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building or structure
hereafter erected, altered or moved shall be occupied, and no nonconforming use
shall be renewed, changed or extended until a Zoning Permit in compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter has been issued by the Zoning Administrator.
Such permit shall show that the land, building, structure or premises or part
thereof is in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   A Zoning Permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior to
the issuance of a Building Permit by the Village Building Inspector. In areas
not served by municipal sanitary sewer, an applicant must obtain sanitary
approval from the Racine County Code Administration office prior to obtaining a
Zoning Permit from the Village to ensure that the proposed on-site sanitary
system is in compliance with State and County regulations and will not
interfere with the existing on-site sanitary system.
   C.   This section shall also apply in cases where the use of any building or
premises is changed by owner or occupant, or where any nonconforming use is
renewed, changed or extended. No structure within the floodplain districts
hereafter erected, altered or moved shall be occupied until the applicant
submits to the Zoning Administrator the certification required in
Chapter 37 of this Municipal Code.
35-10 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
   The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include the administration of
this Chapter and the evaluation and, if appropriate, the issuance of all
permits required by this Chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain
records of all permits issued, and shall perform all floodplain related duties
set forth in
Chapter 37 of this Municipal Code and administer all other land use provisions
as set forth in this Municipal Code. In addition:
   A.   The Zoning Administrator shall investigate all complaints, give notice
of violations, issue orders to comply with this Chapter, and assist the Village
Attorney in the prosecution of ordinance violators.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator and his duly appointed deputies may enter at
any reasonable time onto any public or private lands or water to make a zoning
inspection as deemed necessary by him to ensure compliance with this Chapter.
If, however, he is refused entry after presentation of his identification, he
may procure a inspection warrant in accordance with Wis. Stat. s. 66.0119.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator, with the aid of law
enforcement and the Building Inspector, to enforce the land use provisions of
this Code. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of all permits and
certificates issued by him, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in any land or building, or as
required by the Open Records laws. The Zoning Administrator shall also keep a
record of all nonconforming uses, indicating any extension or changes thereof,
with the dates of such changes or extensions.
   D.   The Zoning Administrator shall give all notices related to Floodplain
Zoning as set forth in
Chapter 37 of this Municipal Code.
35-11 ZONING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Each principal and accessory use and structure shall require the
issuance of a Zoning Permit prior to the issuance of building permits under
Chapter 11 and prior to a new or change in the use of a property. An
application for a Zoning Permit shall be completed in triplicate and submitted
to the Zoning Administrator and shall include the following (additional permits
may be required under Chapter 30 to 39 of this Municipal Code):
      1.   Names and Addresses of the applicant, owner of the site, architect,
professional engineer, or contractor.
      2.   Description of the subject site by lot, block, and recorded
subdivision or by metes and bounds; address of the subject site; type of
structure; existing and proposed operation or use of the structure and/or site;
number of families or employees; and the zoning district within which the
subject site lies.
      3.   Plat of Survey prepared by a registered land surveyor, or, at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator, a location sketch drawn to scale,
showing the location, boundaries, dimensions, setbacks, elevations if required
by the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, uses and sizes of the following:
subject site; existing and proposed structures; accessory buildings; existing
and proposed easements, streets, and other public ways; off-street parking,
loading areas and driveways; existing highway access restrictions; wetland,
high water, channel, floodway and floodplain boundaries; and existing and
proposed street, side, and rear yards. In addition, the plat of survey shall
show the location, elevations, and use of any abutting lands and their
structures within forty feet of the subject site. Elevations shall be
referenced to the National Geodetic Vertical (NGVD) Datum of 1929. When the
subject site is subject to other land use restrictions set forth in this Code,
the permit application shall include the information required by the applicable
chapter(s).
      4.   Structures may not be constructed within any easements, e.g.,
utility easements, drainage easements, preservation easements, driveway
easements, etc., without a recordable written approval from the holder of the
easement allowing the encroachment.
      5.   In any case, no permit for excavation or for erection of any
building or part of a building or for repairs to or alterations of a building
shall be issued by the Building Inspector until after a statement of its
intended use has been filed with the Zoning Administrator by the applicant.
      6.   Minimum Utility Connections. Electricity and sanitary sewerage and
water supply connections are required for all structures used or intended to be
used for human habitation or occupancy. If municipal sewer service is not
available, the proposed on-site sanitary sewer disposal plan must be approved
by the Racine County Code Administration office, which shall state in writing
that a satisfactory, adequate and safe sewage disposal system is possible on
the site as proposed by the plan in accordance with the applicable local,
county and state regulations.
      7.   Fee receipt. The Zoning Administrator shall not proceed until a
receipt showing payment of the Fees required by the Village of Rochester is
submitted to him.
      8.   Additional Information. The applicant shall submit additional
information as may be required by the Village Plan Commission, Village
Engineer, and/or Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Continuance of Existing Uses. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the
continuance of the present occupancy or lawful use of any existing building,
except as may be necessary for the safety of life and property.
   C.   A Zoning Permit shall be granted or denied in writing by the Zoning
Administrator within 30 business days of receipt of all forms, fees, plans and
documents required to process the application, and completion of any other
Village prerequisite permitting requirements. Refusal to issue a Zoning Permit
shall be given in writing, with the reasons for such refusal. Unless otherwise
set forth in the Chapter or by statute, the Permit shall expire at the same
time as the building permit issued by the Building Inspector under Chapter 11.
Certificates of Compliance, and Zoning Permits for uses that do not involve
building permits, shall not expire but shall be automatically void if a change
is made without application for an amended or new Certificate or Zoning Permit.
A Zoning Permit that was issued prior to the enactment of this Chapter that has
expired will not be re-issued upon application unless the plans meet the
requirements of this Chapter. A Zoning Permit issued in conflict with this
Chapter shall be null and void.
35-12 USES NOT REQUIRING A ZONING PERMIT.
   No Zoning Permit shall be required in any of the following instances: for
repairs or improvements to an existing building not involving a change in the
use of a structure, or an increase in the floor area of the structure, except
in compliance with Section
35-190, Architectural Control, of this Chapter and other applicable chapters of
this Municipal Code; provided, however, that any work not requiring a permit
shall comply with the applicable setback, yard, height and other requirements
of this Chapter. No zoning permit shall be required for the necessary and
customary construction, reconstruction or maintenance of overground or
underground public utility service lines and mechanical appurtenances; except
in compliance with floodplain districts (see
Chapter 37). No permit shall be required for gardening accessory to a principal
use. See also Chapters 36 to 39 for specific uses.
35-13 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
   Upon written request from the owner, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
certificate of compliance for any building or premises existing at the time of
the adoption of this Chapter, certifying, after inspection, the extent and kind
of use made of the building or premises and whether or not such use conforms to
the provisions of the Chapter.
35-14 EXISTING PERMITS
   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building or part thereof for which
a Zoning Permit was issued before the effective date of this Chapter, or the
applicable amendment thereto, the construction of which was started within six
months from the date of such permit.
35-15 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   No permit shall be issued and no land shall be used or structure
erected where the land is unsuitable for such use of structure by reason of
flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock
formation, unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength,
erosion susceptibility, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the
health, safety, prosperity, aesthetics, and general welfare of this community.
Such determination shall be made by the Village Board, and the Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible for making the Village Board aware of such
unsuitable conditions that come to his attention. The Village Board in applying
the provisions of this section, shall in writing recite the particular facts
upon which it bases its conclusion that the land is not suitable for certain
uses. The applicant shall have an opportunity to present evidence contesting
such unsuitability if he so desires. Thereafter the Village Board may affirm,
modify, or withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
   B.    1All_Lots_shall_abut_upon_a_public_street,_or_a_private_road_approved
by_the_Village,_or_other_means_of_access_if_that_access_was_in_existence_prior
to_the_adoption_of_this_Chapter_(July_1,_2014)_and_was_previously_approved_by
the_municipality._No_new_private_street_or_road_may_be_created_after_January
26,_2017_unless_it_is_approved_as_part_of_a_Planned_Unit_Development_Overlay
District_and_an_access_and_maintenance_easement_is_approved_therefore._Such
private_roads_or_streets_shall_meet_the_requirements_set_forth_in_Section
30-84.F. of this Code. Each lot shall have a minimum frontage of 33 feet and
shall also be a minimum width at the street yard setback line as prescribed for
the particular zoning district in which the lot is located.
   C.   All Principal and Accessory Structures shall be located on a lot, and
only one principal structure shall be located, erected, or moved onto a lot,
unless the specific zoning for the lot allows for more than one principal
structure or more buildings are allowed by conditional use permit or site plan
review. All residential structures shall be attached to a permanent foundation,
and shall meet the minimum area requirements for the use of the dwelling, as
set forth in the specific zoning district.
   D.   No Zoning Permit shall be issued for a lot which abuts a public street
dedicated to only a portion of its platted width. No zoning permit shall be
issued for a lot which abuts upon the termination of a non-through public
street unless such street has been or is to be provided with a permanent cul-
de-sac or other type of permanent turnaround as determined by the Plan
Commission and the Village Board.
   E.   Width and area of all lots not served by public sanitary sewer system,
or other sewage disposal system by the State or County having jurisdiction over
the approval or disapproval of such systems, shall be sufficient to permit the
use of a private on-site wastewater treatment system (POWTS) designed in
accordance with applicable state and county sanitary regulations but in no case
shall be less than 150 feet in width and 40,000 square feet in area unless lot
width and area has been approved by the Plan Commission through the land
division or conditional use process.
   F.   Where public water supply systems are not available, private well
construction shall be required to conform to Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 812, and,
if applicable, Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 811. Where public sewer collection and
treatment is not available, design and construction of private sewage systems
shall be governed under Chapter 19 of the Racine County Code of Ordinances,
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 145.20. No private waste disposal system or part
therefore shall be located, installed, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, converted, substantially altered or its use changed without full
compliance with this chapter. A Zoning Permit for any structure or an addition
to a structure served by or to be served by a private sewage system may not be
issued until evidence of such compliance is provided to the Zoning
Administrator.
   G.   Lots abutting more restrictive district boundaries shall provide side
and rear yards not less than those required in the more restrictive abutting
district.
   H.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, a commercial
structure shall not be greater in height than its distance from a lot line,
provided however that if the applicant presents to the Village a report by a
licensed structural engineer certifying the fall-down radius of the proposed
structure to be less than its height, the allowed setback shall be that
certified distance or the setback required in this Chapter, whichever is
greater, unless specifically provided in this Chapter.
   I.   Single family dwelling and two family dwelling requirements. No single
family dwelling or two-family dwelling shall be erected or installed in any
zoning district unless it meets all of the following:
      1.   The dwelling is set on an enclosed foundation in accordance with the
standards set forth in Subchapters III, IV and V of Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS
321.
      2.   The dwelling is properly connected to utilities;
      3.   The dwelling has a core area of living space, measured at the ground
floor, of at least 20 feet by 20 feet in size; and
      4.   The dwelling and lot meet the minimum size requirements of the
applicable zoning district.
      5.   a.   Subject to the provisions of subsections 1. through 4. above, a
modular home, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.71(6), that is installed on an
enclosed foundation in accordance with State of Wisconsin requirements is
permitted in any district where single family or two-family dwellings are shown
as permitted or conditional uses.
         b.   Subject to the provisions of subsections 1. through 4. above, a
manufactured home, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(2), that is installed on
an enclosed foundation in accordance with State of Wisconsin requirements may
be allowed as a conditional use in any district where single family or two-
family dwellings are shown as permitted or conditional uses. The Plan
Commission must determine whether the manufactured home is aesthetically
similar to the homes in the vicinity of the proposed manufactured home, and
whether the manufactured home would have an adverse effect on the tax base or
property values when determining whether to grant the conditional use permit.
 
Notes
1All_Lots_shall_abut_upon_a_public
street,_or_a_private_road_approved_by
the_Village,_or_other_means_of_access_if
that_access_was_in_existence_prior_to
the_adoption_of_this_Chapter_(July_1,
2014)_and_was_previously_approved_by_the
municipality._No_new_private_street_or   1 Amended by Ordinance 2016-6 Adopted
road_may_be_created_after_January_26,    12-12-16
2017_unless_it_is_approved_as_part_of_a
Planned_Unit_Development_Overlay
District_and_an_access_and_maintenance
easement_is_approved_therefore._Such
private_roads_or_streets_shall_meet_the
requirements_set_forth_in_Section
35-17 to 35-19 [reserved for future use.]
35-20 CHANGE OF USE.
   A Zoning Permit shall be required for a new use or a change of use to
property or buildings.
35-21 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following use restrictions and regulations shall apply:
   A.   Principal Uses. Only those principal uses and structures specified for
a district, their essential services, uses required by State or Federal law,
and the uses set forth in this Section shall be permitted in that district.
   B.   Accessory uses, buildings and structures. Accessory uses, buildings and
structures are permitted in any district (except the floodplain districts, see
Chapter 37), but, except as set forth in this Section, not until the principal
structure on the lot is present or under construction. Accessory uses,
buildings and/or structures shall not involve the conduct of any business,
trade or industry unless the use, building and/or structure is related to an
allowed professional home office as defined in Section
35-300 or home occupations as set forth below. Accessory buildings and
structures may be used for storage, parking facilities, gardening, private
swimming pools, and private emergency shelters, and must be directly related to
the principal use. Outdoor storage is not an authorized accessory use in
residential, commercial, C-2, M-1 and M-2 districts, except storage of
registered vehicles (also see Section
35-180 of this Chapter and
Chapter 37 of this Code).  Examples of accessory structures (regardless of
whether attached to a foundation) include, but are not limited to: barns,
detached garages, playhouses, sheds, private greenhouses, gazebos, storage
sheds, boathouses, wind energies facilities, swimming pools and pump houses,
wind energy structures, and tower facilities.
      1.   Accessory uses.
         a.   In-law suites. In-law suites (herein “suite”) may be allowed as
an accessory use to a single family residence located in the residential,
agricultural, urban reserve and C-2 zoning districts, subject to the following:
            (1)   Up to two persons who will be living together as a single
housekeeping entity with the residents occupying the principal structure may
reside in the suite and must be allowed unrestricted access to the common areas
of the dwelling.
            (2)   The suite shall not have separate gas, water, and/or electric
meters (more than one meter per utility would constitute a multi-family
dwelling unit, and that is prohibited).
            (3)   The suite shall not be located in any detached accessory
structure.
            (4)   The gross floor area of the suite shall not exceed 800 square
feet (not including areas for common utilities such as water heater, furnace,
etc.).
            (5)   The suite shall be connected to the main heated living area
of the dwelling by way of common walls (the suite shall not be connected to the
dwelling by a breezeway, garage, or corridor as this would constitute a multi-
family dwelling unit, and that is prohibited). A code- compliant suite may be
located above a garage that is attached in its entirety to a single-family
residence.
            (6)   There shall be only one address and one mailbox for the lot
containing the residence and suite.
            (7)   The suite addition shall be constructed so as to be
compatible and in harmony in terms of architecture, color, materials and
texture with the exterior of the principal residence.
            (8)   In areas not served by public sanitary sewer, any suite that
is added onto or created within an existing residence must have private onsite
wastewater treatment system (POWTS) sanitary approval prior to zoning permit
issuance.
            (9)   The suite shall have its principal means of access to the
outdoors from the main dwelling unit via said dwelling unit's main exterior
doorways (a sole segregated doorway from the suite to the outdoors would
constitute a multi-family dwelling unit and that is prohibited).
            (10)   The suite may have up to one bedroom, bathroom, along with a
sitting room or parlor. It may not have a full kitchen (stove, refrigerator and
sink).
            (11)   There may be no more than one suite addition within or
attached to a single-family residence.
            (12)   Evidence of a recorded deed restriction will be required at
the time of the filing of the zoning permit application that establishes that
persons within the home are required to be living together in the dwelling as a
single housekeeping entity, that the living area shall not be utilized as a
two-family dwelling, and that the suite will be in compliance with this Code.
         b.   Home Occupations. "A", "C-2" and "R" district residential
accessory uses and structures shall not involve the conduct of any business,
trade, or industry, except if allowed as a principal or conditional use, or as
set forth in section J, below.
      2.   Accessory Buildings and Structures on Sewered Lots. Accessory
buildings and structures on lots served by public sanitary sewer are limited as
set forth herein, and may modify the yard requirements, as follows:
         a.   Number of Accessory Buildings Limited. No more than two accessory
buildings that are not part of the principal structure may be located on any
building site. If two accessory buildings are present, the size of at least one
of the structures is limited to no more than 200 square feet.
         b.   Accessory Structures, Including Buildings, Regulations.
            (1)   A detached accessory structure 150 square feet or less in
area may be located in a side yard or rear yard provided that the structure is
at least ten feet from the principal structure, is at least three feet from any
lot line, is not intended for human habitation or animal shelter, and is not
greater than fifteen feet in height. The five foot setback requirement of s.
35-180.B.6. of this Chapter does not apply to any accessory structure which is
150 square feet or less in area.
            (2)   A detached accessory structure greater than 150 square feet
but no greater than 720 square feet in area may be located in a side yard or
rear yard provided that the structure is at least ten feet from the principal
structure, at least four feet from the lot line, is not intended for human
habitation or animal shelter, and is not greater than fifteen feet in height.
The five foot setback requirement of s.
35-180.B.6. of this Chapter does not apply to any detached accessory structure
which is greater than 150 square feet and no greater than 720 square feet in
area.
            (3)   A detached accessory structure greater than 720 square feet,
but no greater than 1,200 square feet in area may be located in a side yard or
rear yard provided that the structure is at least ten feet from the principal
structure, is at least ten feet from any lot line, is not intended for human
habitation or animal shelter, and is not greater than fifteen feet in height.
         c.   No detached accessory structure greater than 720 square feet may
be located in the following zoning districts: R-1 Single Family Residential, R-
2 Single Family Residential, R-3 One and Two Family Residential, and R-
4 Multiple Family Residential.
         d.   A detached garage of masonry construction which is greater than
150 square feet but no greater than 720 square feet in area shall not be
located less than five feet from any residential building. A detached garage of
masonry construction which does not fall within these size parameters shall be
governed by all of the other provisions set forth in this Section.
         e.   Accessory structure regulations for lots abutting shorelands in
the area of the Village not subject to
Chapter 36 are in s.
35-21E. See
Chapter 36 for accessory structures in the Shoreland- wetland and Shoreland
Districts.
         f.   Surrounding Area. No Zoning Permit shall be issued for any
accessory structure, including buildings, if the plan, general design and
architecture do not substantially conform to the plan, general design and
architecture of the surrounding area.
      3.   Accessory Buildings and Structures Located on Unsewered Lots.
Accessory buildings and structures, located on lots not served by public
sanitary sewer, are limited as set forth herein, and may modify the yard
requirements, as follows:
         a.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the agricultural
districts prior to the presence of the principal structure provided that the
parcel on which the accessory structure will be located is ten contiguous acres
in size or larger, the accessory structure is intended for an agricultural use,
the proposed accessory structure meets the setback requirements needed for a
principal structure in that district, and the accessory structure is at least
100 feet from any existing residence on abutting parcels.
         b.   Except for signs and tower facilities and/or wind energy
facilities, which are regulated separately, any detached accessory structure
less than 36 square feet in area is exempt from the requirement for obtaining a
Zoning Permit. In addition, any temporary, seasonal outdoor above- ground
swimming pool, hot tub, or whirlpool bath that does not remain erected on the
same lot for more than 120 consecutive days is exempt from the requirement for
obtaining a Zoning Permit.
         c.   Detached accessory structures constructed in residential
districts shall not be closer than ten feet to the principal structure; not
closer than five feet to a side or rear lot line; not closer than five feet to
an alley line; shall not exceed 15 feet in building height; shall not occupy
more than 20 percent of the rear yard area; and are permitted in the rear and
side yards only, except as follows:
            (1)   Accessory structures are permitted in the street yard portion
of waterfront lots provided that they are not placed within the required
minimum street yard setback.
            (2)   For lots with multiple street yards and no defined rear yard
area, accessory structures are permitted in the street yard portion of the
secondary or non-access street provided that they are not placed within the
minimum required street yard setback.
            (3)   Any portion of an accessory structure placed or constructed
in a side yard area of a nonconforming principal structure shall not encroach
into the minimum required street yard setback.
            (4)   See Sections
35-130 to
35-151 for Solar Energy Systems, Wind Energy Systems, and Tower regulations.
         d.   Detached accessory structures constructed in nonresidential
districts shall not be closer than ten feet to the principal structure; not
closer than one-half of the building height to a side or rear lot line, or in
accordance with the yard setbacks of the zoning district, whichever is greater;
are limited in height to that listed for the principal structures in the zoning
district, although a greater building height may be approved through a site
plan review process and as allowed in Section
35-180; shall not occupy more than 20 percent of the rear yard area; and are
permitted in the rear and side yards only, except as follows:
            (1)   Accessory structures are permitted in the street yard portion
of waterfront lots provided that they are not placed within the required
minimum street yard setback.
            (2)   For lots with multiple street yards and no defined rear yard
area, accessory structures are permitted in the street yard portion of the
secondary or non-access street provided that they are not placed within the
minimum required street yard setback.
            (3)   Any portion of an accessory structure placed or constructed
in a side yard area of a nonconforming principal structure shall not encroach
into the minimum required street yard setback.
            (4)   See Sections
35-130 to
35-151 for Solar Energy Systems, Wind Energy Systems, and Tower regulations.
         e.   The aggregate total footprint area for all accessory structures
constructed in the unsewered areas shall not exceed the following square
footage for the stated lot size, exclusive of road right-of-way:
Lot Size/ Accessory Structure(s) Maximum Aggregate Total Footprint Area
Less than 10,000 sq. ft. lot:            720 square feet
10,000 sq. ft. to less than 20,000 sq. ft. lot:      1,000 square feet
20,000 sq. ft. to less than 1 acre lot:         2,600 square feet
1 acre to less than 2 acre lot:            4,000 square feet
2 acre to less than 3 acre lot:            5,000 square feet
3 acre to less than 4 acre lot:            6,000 square feet
4 acre to less than 5 acre lot:            7,500 square feet
5 acre to less than 10 acre lot:            four percent of lot area
10 acre lot or more:               five percent of lot area
Note: A greater amount of square footage per lot size may be allowed if
approved as part of a conditional use permit or site plan review when needed as
an integral part of the plan of operation and where said structure(s) is used
solely accessory to the permitted principal or conditional use on said lot.
      4.   Accessory Structures in General. Where an accessory structure is
permanently attached to the principal structure by a roof or wall-to-wall, such
accessory structure shall be considered as a part of the principal structure.
Decks, stairs and landings that abut a principal structure, whether or not
physically attached, and outdoor swimming pools, hot tubs or whirlpools on top
of, within, or immediately abutting such shall be considered to be part of the
principal structure and principal structure setbacks would apply for required
setbacks except where Section
35-180 Modification setbacks apply. Items such as a fence, trellis, retaining
wall, and sidewalk, driveway or patio less than six inches from grade are not
considered an attachment, and are exempt from setbacks except where regulated
by shoreland, shoreland-wetland, floodplain or traffic visibility regulations.
      5.   Essential Services. Essential services, as defined in Section
35-200 of this chapter, shall be permitted accessory uses in all zoning
districts subject to the limitations and requirements set forth in this
subsection.
   C.   Exemptions from yard requirements
      1.   Essential services, utilities, electric power and communication
transmission lines and mechanical appurtenances thereto where reasonable and
necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, convenience and
welfare are exempt from the yard and distance requirements of this chapter,
provided, however, that tower facilities, wind energy facilities and solar
energy facilities shall meet the requirements in the applicable sections of
this Chapter, and the placement of utilities shall be regulated as follows:
         (a)   The placement of said utilities in Village rights-of-way shall
be subject to section
6-6 of this Code; and
         (b)   The placement of said utilities in the front or side yard of any
lot in the Village shall be subject to the following:
            (1)   All above-ground structures, cabinets or boxes shall be
precisely indicated on plans submitted to the Zoning Administrator, or, if
applicable, the Plan Commission, including the size and appearance thereof. The
Zoning Administrator or Plan Commission may require alternative placement of
said structures, cabinets or boxes as part of the permitting process if the
Administrator or Plan Commission determines that the planned placement
interferes with public safety, health or welfare. The Zoning Administrator or
Plan Commission may also reasonably require screening of said structures,
cabinets or boxes if either determines that the public welfare is harmed by the
potential diminution of property values in the area because of the appearance
of said structures, cabinets or boxes.
            (2)   Except for sanitary sewerage service in Floodplain and
Shoreland Districts, no separate Zoning Permit under this Chapter shall be
required for the necessary and customary construction, reconstruction or
maintenance of above ground or underground public utility neighborhood service
lines and mechanical appurtenances thereto, however, this section shall apply
to the review of the placement of said utility facilities. When a single site
is being developed, review of the placement of the sanitary facilities shall be
performed as part of the building and/or zoning review.
      2.   Landscaping and vegetation are exempt from the yard requirements of
this chapter, unless they interfere with the vision clearance triangle.
   D.   Conditional Uses and their accessory uses are considered as special
uses requiring review, public hearing, and approval by the Plan Commission and
Village Board in accordance with Section
35-100 of this Chapter.
   E.   Shoreyard Uses in Areas of the Village Not Subject to
Chapter 36. The shoreyard is defined in Section
35-300 of this Chapter.
   The rear yard setbacks applicable to the zoning district for principal uses
on lots abutting navigable water in areas of the Village not subject to
Chapter 36 apply to the shore yards, provided that no setback averaging set
forth in s.
35-180.B. may allow a principal structure to be placed closer than 25 feet to
the ordinary high-water mark.
   Except as set forth in subsection 3., detached accessory buildings and
structures may be placed in shoreyards but may not be placed closer than 25
feet to the ordinary high-water mark, shall be limited in size to 300 square
feet or less in area, must be at least five feet but no greater than ten feet
from the principal structure, must be at least three feet from any side lot
line, may not be used for human habitation or animal shelter, and may not be
greater than fifteen feet in height.    
   Boathouses may be located within the shoreyard, but shall not be closer than
20 feet to the ordinary high water-mark of a stream, lake, river, pond or
wetland; shall not exceed one boathouse per shoreyard lot; shall not exceed 15
feet in height above the ordinary high water mark; shall not exceed 250 square
feet in horizontal area covered; and shall not be closer than 15 feet to any
side lot line. In no case, however, shall boathouses be allowed to project
beyond the shoreline. Boathouses shall be constructed in such a manner as to
orient the main opening of the boat house toward the body of water and shall be
used strictly for the storage of boats and water- related recreational
accessories. The use of a boat house for human habitation is prohibited. No
plumbing, heating or cooking facilities may be provided in or for a boathouse.
   Where a lot contains a shoreyard, accessory structures meeting the other
requirements of this Chapter may be placed in side and street yards provided
that the setbacks for those yards are met.
   Shoreyard uses for land subject to shoreland regulation, see,
Chapter 36.
   F.   Unclassified or Unspecified Uses may be permitted by the Zoning Board
of Appeals after the Village Plan Commission had made a review and
recommendation provided that such uses are similar in character to the
principal uses permitted in the district, except as limited in a specific
zoning district.
   G.   Temporary Uses of Land and Temporary Structures.
      1.   In this section:
         “Temporary Structure” means a structure that is not permanently
attached to the ground that is removed when the designated time period,
activity or use for which the temporary structure was erected or placed has
ceased.
         “Temporary Use” means a use that is established for a limited duration
with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
A temporary use may not be permitted for more than 30 days unless the use is
specifically permitted in this section.
      2.   Temporary Use Permits.
         a.   Required. A zoning Temporary Use Permit is required for temporary
uses and for the use of land for temporary structures as set forth in this
section. The permit shall be referred to as a Temporary Use Permit whether it
is for a temporary use or for a temporary structure or both. When such a permit
has been issued, an occupancy permit for the use is not required.
         b.   Fees; Applications.
            (1)   Fees. The applicant for a Temporary Use Permit shall pay a
fee at the time of application in an amount set by the Village Board and set
forth in the Fee Schedule.
            (2)   Applications. All applications shall contain a location
sketch, drawn to scale, showing the location, actual shape and dimensions of
the lot to be used and the size and location on the lot of the proposed use
along with the existing buildings. The location and setbacks of temporary
structures related to the proposed use shall be shown, as well as the proposed
parking areas. The Zoning Administrator and Plan Commission may require such
other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots or buildings as
may be necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this section.
      3.   General Standards. The Zoning Administrator may issue a Temporary
Use Permit after Plan Commission review and approval as set forth in this
section.
         a.   Zoning Administrator Review. The Zoning Administrator will review
an application for a Temporary Use Permit and determine:
            (1)   Whether the use is allowed in the zoning district. If it is
not allowed, the Zoning Administrator will deny the application.
            (2)   If the use is allowed in the zoning district, the Zoning
Administrator will determine whether the proposed use will be served adequately
by streets, off-street or on-street parking, police and fire protection, refuse
disposal, and other public facilities or if the applicant will provide
adequately for such facilities as well as provide for safe vehicular and
pedestrian access and egress to the site. The Zoning Administrator will provide
comments to the Plan Commission regarding these items, and forward the
application to the Plan Commission.
         b.   Plan Commission Review. The Plan Commission will review the
application and determine:
            (1)   Whether the proposed temporary use will cause undue traffic
congestion or draw significant amounts of traffic through residential streets
or upon residential property. Adequate measures will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion on the public
streets. If that cannot be accomplished, the Plan Commission will deny the
application.
            (2)   Whether the proposed temporary use will be in harmony with
the general and specific purposes for which this chapter was enacted and for
which the regulations of the zoning district affected were established. Prior
to approving a permit, the Plan Commission must determine that the proposed use
will not have a substantial or undue adverse or detrimental effect upon or
endanger adjacent property, the aesthetics and character of the area, or the
public health, safety, comfort, and general welfare and will not diminish or
impair property values within the community or neighborhood.
      4.   Conditions.
         a.   If the Plan Commission approves a permit, it may impose such
conditions and limitations concerning use, location, maintenance, screening,
operation, hours of operation (except as may be allowed by other federal,
state, or village requirements), and other matters relating to the purposes and
objectives of this chapter upon the premises as the Commission deems necessary
or appropriate to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other property and
improvements near the subject property and upon public facilities and services,
to protect the public interest, and to secure compliance with the standards and
requirements specified in this chapter. Such conditions shall be expressly set
forth in the Temporary Use Permit.
         b.   The Plan Commission may require the applicant to mail or deliver
notice of the temporary use to the neighboring property owners prior to the
event. The applicant shall provide a copy of the notice, proof that the notice
was mailed or delivered, and a list of the persons to whom it was mailed or
delivered prior to the temporary use.
         c.   Violation of any condition, limitation or requirement for notice
shall be a violation of this chapter and shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the Temporary Use Permit.
      5.   Effect Of/On Other Permits.
         a.   The amendment of a Conditional Use Permit or Specific
Implementation Plan is not required in order to obtain a Temporary Use Permit.
         b   The approval and issuance of a Temporary Use Permit does not amend
a Conditional Use Permit or Specific Implementation Plan.
         c.   A Temporary Use Permit is required even when no Conditional Use
Permit or Specific Implementation Plan is required under the zoning
regulations.
         d.   When an event that utilizes both public and private land is
allowed by the Village Board, no Temporary Use Permit is required.
         e.   If the terms of a Conditional Use Permit, Specific Implementation
Plan or variance existing on the date of the adoption of this Chapter includes
the use of the property for the specific temporary uses covered in this
section, no new Temporary Use Permit is required under this section. If the
CUP, Specific Implementation Plan or variance does not cover the specific
temporary use, a Temporary Use Permit is required.
      6.   Limitations on Temporary Use Permits.
         a.   Time Limitations. No Temporary Use Permit will be issued for a
total of more than 30 days in any one calendar year, except as may otherwise be
set forth in the specific regulations for the use or structure set forth in
this section.
         b.   Temporary Use Discontinuance. A Temporary Use Permit shall be
deemed to authorize only the particular temporary use for which it was issued.
The Permit will automatically expire and cease to be of any force or effect if
the use is discontinued.
         c.   A Temporary Use Permit is effective only for the dates listed in
the Permit.
      7.   Amendments to Temporary Use Permits. Temporary Use Permits may be
amended, varied, or altered only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the
standards and limitations provided in this section for the original approval of
a Temporary Use Permit.
      8.   Review of Temporary Use Permit. An existing permit may be reviewed
by the Village as follows:
         a.   The Zoning Administrator may review a permit if any of the
following determinations are made by the Zoning Administrator:
            (1)   The temporary use has not continued in conformity with the
Village’s conditions of approval of the permit or with any subsequent
amendments to the permit.
            (2)   Violations of other statutes, ordinances, or laws.
            (3)   A change in the character of the surrounding area or in the
temporary use itself which has caused the temporary use to become incompatible
with the surrounding uses.
         b.   The determination of a review of a granted Temporary Use Permit
shall be made by the Zoning Administrator after due notice to the property
owner, occupant, or agent as indicated on the Temporary Use Permit as to the
reason(s) for the review.
         c.   Upon review of the Temporary Use Permit, the Zoning Administrator
may: take no action, revise the Temporary Use Permit, specify additional
conditions to be added to the Temporary Use Permit, or may terminate the
Temporary Use Permit. The Zoning Administrator will report the review and
action to the Plan Commission.
         d.   If the permit holder is found to be out of compliance with the
terms of the permit, or there has been a violation of statutes, ordinances or
other laws, the permit holder shall be charged the actual cost of the review.
      9.   Standards applicable to all temporary uses. The following standards
shall apply to all temporary uses unless different standards are provided for
the specific use.
         a.   Trash and debris. All trash and debris shall be removed or
contained daily.
         b.   Written consent is required. Written consent from the owner, or
authorized agent, of the property shall be provided in the application for the
Temporary Use Permit.
         c.   Signage. All signage shall be according to the Village of
Rochester sign regulations.
         d.   Removal of materials and equipment. All materials and equipment
shall be removed within three days of the end of the use.
      10.   Detailed standards for specific temporary uses. The following
standards shall apply for the temporary use listed.
         a.   Temporary Fairs and Amusement Parks. All temporary fairs and
amusement parks shall be located contiguous to an arterial or collector street.
         b.    2 Temporary Outdoor Sales. This land use includes the display of
any items outside of the confines of a building that is not otherwise permitted
as a permitted or conditional use, or as part of an event utilizing the public
right-of-way that is authorized by the Village Board. Examples of this land use
include, but are not limited to, seasonal garden shops, tent sales, Christmas
tree sales, farmers markets, flea markets, and food stands. Temporary outdoor
sales shall adhere to the following regulations:
            (1)   Location. Material for sale (such as trees, pumpkins, etc.)
shall not be located in any right-of-way.
            (2)   Visibility. The location of materials for sale on the
property shall not block visibility for vehicles or pedestrians on or off the
lot in a way that would create a safety hazard.
            (3)   Hours of operation. The sales shall be limited to between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
            (4)   The user shall provide a layout of activities as part of the
permit application.
         c.   Garage and yard sales. No Temporary Use Permit is required,
provided that garage and yard sales shall be conducted only between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. No more than three rummage sales in one calendar
year may be conducted from any premises. Each sale may last no longer than
three consecutive days and must be conducted on the seller's property.
         d.   Preconstruction Sales Offices. Preconstruction sales offices that
are stand-alone (not located in a model home or model dwelling unit) used
exclusively as sales offices by a builder/developer and to display the builder/
developer's product or to display to prospective buyers the builder/developer's
features (such as exterior siding treatments, roofing materials, interior trim,
moldings, floor coverings, etc.) may be staffed by the builder/developer's
sales force and are subject to the following restrictions:
            (1)   District dimensional requirements to be met. The
preconstruction sales office shall meet all district requirements for lot and
yard dimensions.
            (2)   Sign illumination. Signs shall not be illuminated after 9:00
p.m.
            (3)   Business activity not permitted before 8:00 a.m. or after 9:
00 p.m. The preconstruction sales office shall not be used for any business
activity before 8:00 a.m. or later than 9:00 p.m.
            (4)   Screening and trash receptacles. Landscape drawings shall be
required and show adequate landscaping and screening from adjoining residential
lots or units, with the clear marking of the boundaries of the model home lot
or unit. Trash receptacles shall be provided around the model home for use by
the public.
            (5)   Termination of use. The use of a preconstruction sales office
within a residential subdivision or condominium development, or within any
single phase of a multi-phase subdivision or condominium development, is not
subject to the 30 day time limit, but shall terminate when building permits
have been issued for 90% of the lots therein, provided however, that the Plan
Commission may extend the permit upon application by the builder or developer.
The preconstruction sales office shall be removed within 30 days of the
termination of the permit.
         e.    3 Outdoor concerts and events.
            (1)   Except as set forth in subsection [2], outdoor concerts and
events, including weddings and other celebrations, shall be subject to the
conditions imposed by the Plan Commission as necessary for the specific
duration and attendance expected at the event.
            (2)   Private weddings and other private celebrations held on
private property used in whole or in part for residential purposes are exempt
from the Temporary Use Permit requirements if all amplified music ends by 10:00
p.m. A Temporary Use Permit is required if there will be amplified music after
10:00 p.m.
         f.   Fireworks possession and sales. This section is enacted pursuant
to Wis. Stat. s. 167.10(5), as may be amended from time to time. 3
            (1)   Definitions. The terms used in this section shall have the
meanings indicated in s.
9-8.B. of this Municipal Code.
            (2)   Regulation of statutory fireworks. No person may possess or
store statutory fireworks in the Village except as provided in this Section and
Section
9-8 of this Municipal Code, or, if possession, sales or storage is to be a
permanent use of land, under the appropriate zoning designation.
            (3)   Commercial novelty fireworks permit required.
               (a)   No person may sell, store, or possess novelty fireworks
for other than personal use without a permit issued hereunder.
               (b)   Application. Application for novelty fireworks permits for
seasonal sales shall specify the kind and quantity of fireworks that will be
possessed and sold, and the dates and location of the sales. The owner or
person in authority of the site of the storage and sales shall consent in
writing to the use of the site. Applicants must submit a site plan identifying
the location of the storage, as well as sales (if different), the property’s
zoning district, and any existing structures on the property and within 100
feet of the property lines.
               (c)    Review and issuance.
                  [1]   The application shall be reviewed by the Plan
Commission and the Fire Chief.
                  [2]   No permits shall be issued to minors.
                  [3]   No permit shall be issued unless the Plan Commission
and the Fire Chief determine that the novelty fireworks are stored in a safe
and secure trailer, and that sales of the novelty fireworks will be made from a
temporary shelter or tent in an outdoor area that, in the opinion of the Plan
Commission and Fire Chief, will not be hazardous to property or endanger any
person or persons. In addition:
                     [a]   The site must be zoned as a business district and
located a minimum of 300 feet from any residential dwelling.
                     [b]   The storage and sales of the novelty fireworks must
conform to the standards set forth in NFPA 1 Chapter 65 Explosives, Fireworks
and Model Rocketry, as may be amended from time to time.
                     [c]   The site must be served by adequate parking, ingress
and egress.
               (d)   No permit shall be issued unless the permittee has and
maintains adequate liability insurance with minimum limits of $1,000,000 bodily
injury and property damage, combined single limit, naming the Village, its
officers, employees and agents as additional insureds. Said insurance shall
indemnify and defend the Village, its officers, employees and agents against
all claims, liability, loss damages or expenses, whether caused by or
contributed to by the negligence of the Village, its officers, employees or
agents. Said insurance shall provide that the Village receive written notice 30
days prior to any cancellation, nonrenewal or material change in the policy.
Proof of said insurance shall be submitted to the Plan Commission and Fire
Chief prior to the issuance of the permit.
               (e)   No permit shall be issued for the manufacture of novelty
fireworks, and no permit shall be issued for the storage of novelty fireworks,
except as storage may be necessary to sales permitted hereunder, or except as
may be permitted for permanent uses allowed under this Chapter.
               (f)   A permit for the sales of novelty fireworks issued
hereunder shall not be valid for a period of longer than 30 days.
               (g)   Temporary shelters or tents for the sale of novelty
fireworks permitted hereunder may be erected, and storage trailers/containers
containing novelty fireworks may be placed, on the site no earlier than the
first date of approved permit validity and must be removed no later than the
permit's expiration. No activities, uses, or storage related to the approved
permit may occur outside of the permitted time frame.
               (h)   If the Plan Commission determines that a permit applicant
violated any terms of this code section in the previous year, it reserves the
right to decline the issuance of a permit for the subsequent year.
               (i)   Permit regulations. After the permit is issued, storage,
sale, and possession for sale shall be lawful for that expressed purpose only.
No permit granted hereunder is transferable.
            (4)   Permit fee. A non-refundable fee for the cost of the permit
shall accompany the permit application. This fee shall be an amount determined
by the Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule.
            (5)   [Reserved]
            (6)   Storage and handling of commercial novelty fireworks.
               (a)   No person may store or handle commercial novelty fireworks
on any premises unless the premises are equipped with fire extinguishers
approved by the Fire Chief or Fire Inspector.
               (b)   No person may smoke where commercial novelty fireworks are
stored or handled.
               (c)   A person who stores or handles commercial novelty
fireworks shall immediately notify the Fire Chief or Fire Inspector of the
location, description and quantity of the fireworks.
            (7)   Parental liability. A parent, foster, or family-operated
group home parent or legal guardian of a minor who consents to the presence at
a place selling novelty fireworks by the minor who is under the age of 18 years
of age is liable for damages caused by the minor's access to the fireworks, and
in addition shall be subject to the penalty provided in this Municipal Code.
            (8)   Inspection, search and seizure of fireworks.
               (a)   Inspection and search of permitted premises. An applicant
for a permit under this chapter thereby consents to the entry of the Fire
Chief, Fire Inspectors, Police, or authorized representatives of the Village
upon the permitted premises, including, but not limited to, storage areas,
containers and vehicles, at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection
and search, and consents to removal from the premises and introduction into
evidence in prosecutions for violations of this chapter of all things found
therein in violation of this chapter or state law.
               (b)   Seizure. The Police or Fire Department shall seize, at the
expense of the owner, all statutory or novelty fireworks stored, handled, sold,
possessed or used by any person who violates this chapter. Such seized
fireworks shall be destroyed after conviction for a violation, or, if storage
is deemed to be dangerous, may be destroyed pursuant to statute. Statutory or
novelty fireworks that are seized as evidence of a violation for which no
conviction results shall be returned to the owner if they have not been
destroyed pursuant to statute.
            (9)   Emergency revocation of permit or authority to possess, sell
or store commercial novelty fireworks. The Fire Chief, Fire Inspectors, and/or
Plan Commission may revoke a permit or prohibit or terminate the possession,
sale or storage of novelty fireworks when, in the opinion of the Chief and Plan
Commission, atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such possession,
sale or storage a fire hazard or other hazard to the safety of the public.
During such period of such prohibition, no person may sell novelty fireworks
anywhere within the Village. The failure to allow the inspection and/or search
of a permitted premises pursuant to this section shall be grounds for the
immediate revocation of the permit. The presence of statutory fireworks on
premises permitted for commercial novelty fireworks shall be grounds for the
immediate revocation of a permit. The Fire Chief, Fire Inspectors and/or Plan
Commission may reinstate a permit upon the permittee's compliance with this
chapter.
            (10)   Violations and penalties.
               (a)   See Wis. Stat. s. 167.10(9)(b), which provides that a
penalty for violation of an ordinance adopted pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 167.10
(5) may not exceed $1,000. The penalties for violation of this Section shall be
set forth in the Village Deposit Schedule and shall not exceed $1,000 per
violation.
               (b)   In addition to the penalties found elsewhere in this
Chapter, any violation of this Section shall also constitute a public nuisance
which may be abated pursuant to Section
8-8 of this Municipal Code, in addition to prosecution therefor.
      11.   Temporary Structures. The following temporary structures may be
permitted as specified:
         a.   Construction trailers as temporary offices. A licensed contractor
engaged in a construction project for which a building permit has been issued
or is otherwise authorized by the Village may temporarily use a construction
trailer for office facilities in the location where the work is being done for
the duration of the construction, provided that the construction trailer is
placed on the property on which the construction is authorized, is not placed
more than 15 days prior to the commencement of the work, and is removed within
15 days after completion of the work. No Temporary Use Permit is required.
         b.   Fireworks stands. See s.
35-10.G.10.f., above.
         c.   Temporary Storage Containers. These containers are portable
storage containers designed and used primarily for the temporary storage of
household goods and other such materials for use on a limited basis. Temporary
storage containers that adhere to the following regulations and meet the
requirements of subsection (2) below shall not require a Temporary Use Permit.
All temporary storage containers that do not meet these requirements must
obtain a Temporary Use Permit.
            (1)   The container shall not exceed outside dimensions of 20 feet
in length, ten feet in width, and nine feet in height.
            (2)   The container shall be permitted on the property for up to 14
days associated with each change of occupancy as defined by a recorded change
in property ownership or valid lease.
            (3)   The container cannot encroach on the public right-of-way,
neighboring property, sidewalk, or be placed in the street.
            (4)   This section does not apply to a temporary storage container
to be placed in public right- of-way. Placement of a temporary storage
container or dumpster in the right-of way requires a permit from the Public
Works Manager.
         d.   Temporary Construction Storage. Temporary construction storage
includes any structure or outdoor storage area designed for the on-site storage
of construction equipment and/or materials for an active construction project.
Temporary construction storage, including dumpsters, may be used for the
duration of the project subject to the following regulations:
            (1)   The structure shall be removed within 10 days of issuance of
an occupancy permit.
            (2)   Projects requiring the structure to be in place for more than
365 days shall require a conditional use permit. Said time limit may be
extended with Village Board approval.
            (3)   The structure shall be limited to a maximum area not
exceeding 10 percent of the property’s gross site area.
            (4)   This section does not apply to temporary construction storage
or dumpsters to be placed in public right-of-way. Placement in the right-of way
requires a permit from the Public Works Manager.
         e.   Relocatable Buildings. A relocatable building includes but is not
limited to any manufactured building, shed or other rigid structure that is not
permanently attached to a foundation, that can be or is used for the storage of
personal property or equipment of any kind, and that is located outside of an
enclosed building. When used in conjunction with a Temporary Use Permit, no
separate permit is required. When used as part of the permanent use of the
property, relocatable buildings are considered accessory structures that must
meet the requirements of this Municipal Code for accessory structures and do
not require a Temporary Use Permit. Relocatable buildings larger than 200
square feet in area require Building Permits under Chapter 11 of this Municipal
Code.
         f.   Tents, Canopies or Other Flexible Structures.
            (1)   A tent, canopy or other flexible or semi-flexible structure
associated with a permitted temporary use is allowed for the time period for
the temporary use if it is incidental to the permitted temporary use and was
approved as part of the application. It shall not be located in the vision
clearance triangle.
            (2)   Tents used for temporary recreational purposes in residential
zoning districts shall not be regulated when they are incidental to the
residential use and are placed in the side or rear yard.
            (3)   Tents, canopies and other flexible or semi-flexible
structures shall not be used for storage of any kind in any zoning district.
   H.   Livestock. No livestock, sheep, poultry, or swine shall be kept, raised
or bred in any district that does not specifically allow livestock, except that
poultry may be kept in residential districts by special exception permit in
accordance with Section
9-1 of this Municipal Code.
   I.   Parking.
      1.   Parking of vehicles accessory to a residential use shall be limited
to vehicles actually used by the residents or for temporary parking for guests.
Vans or pickup trucks used for private and recreational use, or a motor home
(recreational vehicle), or a van or pickup truck used in a business or trade,
and a commercial vehicle per subsection 2. used for transportation to and from
a place of employment or workplace of the occupant may be parked on a
residential property.
      2.   One commercial vehicle of not over one-ton rated capacity may be
parked per residential dwelling unit, providing all of the following conditions
are met: the vehicle is registered and licensed; used by a resident of the
premises; gross weight does not exceed 10,000 pounds, including any load;
height does not exceed nine feet as measured from ground level, including any
load, bed, or box; and total vehicle length does not exceed 26 feet, including
attachments thereto (such as plows, trailers, etc).
      3.   Recreational vehicles shall be parked on an improved-surface
driveway, in the rear or side yard, or in compliance with the same setbacks
allowed for accessory uses and structures. Recreational vehicles must maintain
a minimum of a six-foot setback from the rear and side lot lines, but are not
restricted to a minimum setback to the principal structure. For the purpose of
this section, recreational vehicles shall include boats and trailers,
snowmobiles and their trailers, mini-bikes or trail bikes and their trailers,
and unoccupied tent campers, motor homes and travel trailers, all-terrain
vehicles and personal watercraft and their trailers.
      4.   No other vehicular equipment of a commercial or industrial nature,
except as stated above, shall be parked or stored for more than two consecutive
hours and four accumulated hours during any 24-hour period on any lot in any
zoning district except business and industrial districts or as permitted by
conditional use in the A-2 district.
      5.   Outdoor parking of semi-tractors/trailers on commercial property (B-
districts), that is not a principal use (e.g., truck sales), an accessory use
(e.g., delivery vehicles), or which has not been approved through the
conditional use or site plan review process is prohibited.
      6.   Agricultural equipment (such as farm tractors, plows, farm plows,
seeders, combines, cultivators, trucks owned and used by the farmer in the
operation of the farm, etc.) used in a farm operation are permitted in all
agricultural districts.
   J.   Home Occupations.
      1.   It is the intent of this section to regulate the operation of home
occupations so that the average neighbor, under normal circumstances, will not
be aware of their existence other than for a permitted sign. A permit is
required for a home occupation.
      2.   A home occupation is any gainful occupation or profession engaged in
by an occupant of a dwelling unit which meets the following criteria:
         a.   The occupation must be clearly incidental to the use of the
dwelling unit as a residence, with one-half or less of any floor being used for
the home occupation.
         b.   No outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies or
equipment used in the home occupation shall be permitted on the premises.
         c.   There shall be no visible evidence that a home occupation is
being operated in the residence, except for the permitted sign, one non-
illuminated nameplate (name, address and type of home occupation) not to exceed
two square feet in area either mounted flat on the dwelling or a yard light
post or signpost set back a minimum of five feet from the street right-of-way
line.
         d.   A maximum of two persons other than members of the immediate
family residing in the dwelling may be employed in the dwelling unit at any
given time. The applicant for a home occupation permit must reside at the
location of the proposed home occupation.
         e.   Except for indoor storage of materials not exceeding 200 square
feet in area, no activity related to a home occupation shall be conducted
outside or in any detached structure or in any attached garage.
         f.   No stock in trade shall be displayed or sold upon the premises.
         g.   A home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare,
odors, fumes, or hazards detectable to the normal senses off the property.
         h.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive,
radioactive or other restricted materials shall be used or stored on the site
for home occupation purposes.
         i.   The use shall not require more than two additional off-street
parking spaces for clients or customers.
         j.   No equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible electrical interference in any radio or television receiver off the
premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises, or interferes
in any way with telephone or computer communications.
      3.   Permits granted under this section shall be temporary in nature
(they do not run with the land) and shall be granted to a designated person who
resides at a specific residential address. Tenants must provide written
evidence of the property owner's approval prior to issuance of a permit. The
permits are not transferable from person to person, or from address to address.
   K.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Conditional uses and their accessory uses are considered as special
uses which require approval and a public hearing if there is approval all in
accordance with Section 
35-100 of this Chapter.
      2.   Any development within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of an intersection with any other road shall be deemed to be a
conditional use. Such development shall be specifically reviewed in accordance
with Section
35-100 of this Chapter.
      3.   Unless otherwise provided in the permit, a conditional use permit
shall have an indeterminate duration provided that the use for which it was
obtained has commenced as required and continues without abandonment as
provided in Section
35-100 in accordance with its terms, and a conditional use permit shall be
transferable with the land, provided that the use for which it was obtained
does not change.
   L.   Performance Standards. Performance standards listed in Section
35-250 shall be complied with by all uses in all districts.
   M.   Semi-flexible canopy structures are permitted as permanent accessory
structure in agricultural zoning districts and used for agricultural purposes;
located on a parcel of land greater than 10 acres (excluding public or private
road right-of-way) in size; and complies with the State of Wisconsin Uniform
Dwelling Code and the Village of Rochester Building Code, and are otherwise
prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-1,
passed 3-13-2023; Ord. 2023-5, passed 4-10-2023; Ord. 2023-6, passed 4-10-2023;
Ord. 2024-3, passed 4-22-2024; Ord. 2024-4, passed 4-22-2024)
 
Notes
2 2 Amended 8-6-18, Ordinance #2018-5
3 3 Amended 8-6-18, Ordinance #2018-5
3 4 Ordinance #2016-4 Adopted May 9, 2016
35-22 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR THE AESTHETIC EVALUATION OF SITE AND
BUILDING PROJECTS.
   A.   Introduction and Intent.
      1.   The process of private building and development in a community may
be simple or complex depending upon the size of the project, the number of
participants, the ease of communication among the various private and public
parties involved, and the content and clarity of the public rules and
regulations. While the community representatives cannot usually directly affect
either the project size or the number of project participants; they can have a
direct effect on the content and clarity of rules and regulations as well as
the communication, and indeed, interpretation of any such rules and
regulations.
      2.   Like inhabitants of most developing communities, Rochester officials
and citizens have legitimate concerns about both the future character of the
community and the integrity of existing (and even historic) development. One
such concern is in regard to land uses or the mix of land uses, both existing
and planned. Another concern is the financial capability of development
(developers) to provide the required and promised improvements and the
financial capability of the community to provide the necessary and requested
services. A third major concern, importantly, is in regard to the visual impact
or image of the community by people living within or only traveling through the
Village. The intent and purpose of this subsection is to provide principles and
standards for use by both the potential developer and Village officials in the
preparation and standards for use byboth the potential developer and Village
officials in the preparation and review of site and building plans proposed
within the Village with emphasis on, and the primary objective of, heightening
the visual character of the sites and buildings proposed and, thereby, the
entire community. It is understood that such visual enhancement is also
expected to be maintained over time, per s.
35-22 D.3.e.(6) of this Code, and not be only an initial accomplishment to be
forgotten.
      3.   The proponents of any new single or multiple use development (other
than single and two-family single lot development) proposed to be undertaken
within the Village of Rochester, must, pursuant to Section
35-230, present a site and building plan to the Plan Commission for review and
approval. Such approval must be tendered prior to receipt by the builder/
developer of a zoning permit or other permit to commence building or site
development activity. The intent of this zoning section is twofold: to provide
a systematic, equal basis for review and discussion of projects; and to provide
general guidelines to be used in the review of a development or building
project. In this regard the "principles", as stated in Section
35-230, are not true principles, but rather, general standards.
      Any amendment to an approved site and building plan or change to an
existing building or development (other than single or two-family building or
lot development) must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review and
approval. Minor amendments that are in conformance with this Chapter may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator or, at the Zoning Administrator’s
discretion, referred to the Plan Commission. All others will be submitted to
the Plan Commission for review and approval.
      4.   In order to identify specific standards for the visible elements of
site, and building design which embody the general desires of the community, a
set of agreed upon principles have been established which form the foundation
for the standards which will follow.
   B.   Site Planning and Design Principles. It must be noted that a principle
is a truth or tenet-- a statement of fact as it relates to a particular topic--
in this case, site planning and design. Following is a list of principles which
should be utilized by everyone concerned in any Site Planning and Design
Projects in the Village of Rochester:
      1.   The development or building site must be viewed as only one element
of the total developed and undeveloped environment in the vicinity of the site.
Therefore, attention must be given to how the site and the development on the
site will ultimately fit into the total environment.
      2.   Site planning and design is the process by which site features and
uses on the site are made to be compatible, functional and visually pleasing.
      3.   All elements and aspects of the site, both natural and man-made, are
important to the aesthetic character of the site.
      4.   Adjacent or contiguous uses or facilities may have a major effect on
the site or site uses.
      5.   Major changes in land forms on the site, which thereby change the
character and/or physical capabilities of the site are not, generally,
conducive to good site development unless such changes are well planned and are
necessary, as an example; a quarry, to final development.
      6.   The specific location of site access is critical to both the future
use of the site and the safety and convenience of persons traveling on adjacent
public ways.
      7.   Site grading, landscaping, paving, fencing, lighting, signage, and
other site enhancement are an integral part of any building and development
project.
   C.   Building, Design, Layout and Construction Principles. The following is
a list of principles which should be utilized by everyone concerned in any
Building, Design, Layout and Construction project in the Village of Rochester.
      1.   No side or facade of a building or structure is exempt from public
view and, consequently, all sides or facades should be visually pleasing and
architecturally and aesthetically compatible.
      2.   The shape, size, dimension, architectural style, facade material,
texture and color, building landscaping, building signage, and the setting of
the building within its immediate environment are all elements of the building
structure design addressed by the designer, both individually and in concert.
      3.   Each color, texture or material of which the exterior of a building
is composed may, individually, present a visual statement to the viewer and,
therefore, in order not to present a conflicting or complex visual statement,
the arrangement and mix of colors, textures and materials should be carefully
considered and the number of such elements minimized.
      4.   Some building materials present a visual statement of strength and
permanence to the immediate environment and to the community and should be
encouraged, while other materials which make a building or structure appear
temporary should be avoided.
      5.   Individual buildings may be attractive but when duplicated or
triplicated on the same or adjacent parcels or on the same horizontal plane may
detract from the visual character of the overall development.
      6.   Some use elements of a building structure, such as outside
mechanical equipment, loading docks and areas, trash storage areas, and raw
material storage areas are not, usually, attractive and often detract from the
visual appearance of the building unless careful attention is given to
placement, construction, structural and/or landscape screening of such areas.
      7.   Building landscaping, that is landscaping which is or appears to be
an integral part of the building facade design, must be carefully planned and
the appropriate plant materials used so as not to detract from the architecture
of the building.
      8.   Building signage, that is signage which is or appears to be an
integral part of the building facade design, must be carefully planned and the
appropriate sign materials, sign lighting and color used so as not to detract
from the architecture of the building or be disruptive.
   D.   Site Planning and Design Standards.
      A standard (or criteria) is either a quantitative or qualitative model or
value level by or against which all related actions or activities are measured.
In this regard a standard is sometimes referred to as a "yardstick". Moreover,
quantitative standards are those which, when applied, will reveal a
quantitative difference or similarity between the standard and the action or
activity being measured by the standard. For example; the action related to a
site planning standard that states that, "No man-made slope or disturbed
natural slope shall be greater than 3:1, when 3 is the horizontal measurement",
can be measured quantitatively to determine if, indeed, the standard has been
met.
      A qualitative standard, on the other hand, is a standard which, when
applied, involves a judgment, usually subjective, that the action or activity
has met or can meet the stated standard. For example; a site planning standard
that states that "All parking areas shall be screened in a visually pleasing
manner to soften the visual presentation of parked cars and asphalt" requires
that the person(s) making the determination as to whether or not the standard
is met actually looks at the screening structure, device or plant materials and
makes a qualitative judgment. If it can be concluded that the materials, device
or structure as designed or constructed are individually or collectively
visually pleasing, there should be no problem making such a judgment. If,
however, the materials are different in character the judgment is usually more
difficult. Even the arrangement of individually pleasing materials may not be
pleasing. Whenever possible we try to avoid purely qualitative standards.
      Following are both quantitative and qualitative standards related to site
development which will be used by the Zoning Administrator and/or Plan
Commission, as applicable, in the review of every site plan or development.
Historic Preservation Committee approval is also required if the site is
located in the HPO District.
      1.   Size, Visual and Aesthetic Characteristics.
         a.   Size, Facades and Exterior Walls including Sides and Backs
            (1)   Intent: Size should be limited to what is appropriate for
rural development. Facades should be articulated to reduce the massive scale
and the uniform, impersonal appearances of large retail buildings and provide
visual interest that will be consistent with the community's identity,
character, and scale. The intent is to encourage a more human scale that
residents of Rochester will be able to identify with their community. The
resulting scale will ensure a greater likelihood of reuse of structure by
subsequent tenants.
            (2)   Standard: Building size shall not exceed 15,000 square feet.
Anything larger shall require "conditional use" approval. Developments with a
facade over 100 feet in linear length shall incorporate wall projections or
recesses with a minimum of 3 foot depth and a minimum of 20 contiguous feet
within each 100 feet of facade length and shall extend over 20 percent of the
facade. Developments shall use animating features such as arcades, display
windows, entry areas, or awnings along at least 60 percent of the facade.
         b.   Detail Features.
            (1)   Intent: Buildings shall have architectural features and
patterns that provide visual interests, at the scale of the pedestrian, reduce
massive aesthetic effect, and recognize local character. The elements in the
follow standard shall be integral parts of the building fabric, and not
superficially applied trim or graphics, or paint.
            (2)   Standard: Building facades shall include a repeating pattern
that shall include no less than three of the elements listed below:
               (a)   Color change
               (b)   Texture change
               (c)   Material module change
               (d)   Expression of architectural or structural bay through a
change in plane no less than 12 inches in width, such as an offset, reveal, or
projecting rib.
         c.   Roofs.
            (1)   Intent: Variations in rooflines should be used to add
interest to, and reduce the massive scale of a large building. Roof features
shall complement the character of adjoining neighborhoods.
            (2)   Standard: Rooflines shall be varied with a change in height
every 100 linear feet in the building length. Parapets, mansard roofs, gable
roofs, hip roofs, or dormers shall be used to conceal flat roofs and roof top
equipment from public view. Alternating lengths and designs may be acceptable
and can be addressed during the preliminary development plan.
         d.   Materials and color.
            (1)   Intent: Exterior building materials and colors comprise a
significant part of the visual impact of a building. Therefore, they shall be
aesthetically pleasing and compatible with materials and colors used in
adjoining neighborhoods.
            (2)   Standard: Predominant exterior building materials shall be of
high quality. These include, without limitation:
               (a)   Brick
               (b)   Wood
               (c)   Sandstone
               (d)   Tinted, textured, concrete masonry units.
            (3)   Facade colors shall be low reflective, subtle, neutral, or
earth tone colors. The use of high intensity colors, metallic colors, black or
fluorescent colors is prohibited.
            (4)   Building trim and accent areas may feature bright colors,
including primary colors, but neon tubing shall not be an acceptable feature
for building trim or accents.
            (5)   Predominant exterior building materials as well as accents
shall not include the following:
               (a)   Smooth-faced concrete block
               (b)   Tilt-up concrete panels
               (c)   Pre-fabricated steel panels
      2.   Open Space Requirements. 20 percent of land is to remain in open
space.
         a.   Intent: Significant existing vegetation within all setbacks shall
be preserved (i.e., wetlands, prairie, vegetation, woodlands). Significant
existing vegetation within the building area of any commercial lot shall be
preserved through innovative site design.
         b.   Standard: Preservation of significant existing vegetation through
careful site design is desired. The preserved areas are considered part of the
20% open space.
      3.   Site Landscaping.
         a.   Landscaping Required. Landscaping is required in bufferyards, in
off-street parking areas, and in building foundation planting areas (foundation
planting areas are those areas located within ten feet of principal and
accessory structures). The area and/or length of each, as required herein, must
be measured in order to determine the minimum amount of landscaping required.
         b.   Exemptions and Modifications. All developments shall meet the
provisions of this Section except as specifically exempted below:
            (1)   Residential development on existing lots of record as of the
date of the adoption of this Chapter.
            (2)   Additions to existing buildings where the total floor area is
not increased more than ten percent of the existing total floor area.
            (3)   Additions to buildings which increase their overall building
area from ten to 50 percent shall conform to the landscaping standards
specified in this Section to the maximum extent achievable. All off-street
parking areas and bufferyards shall conform to the applicable landscaping
requirements of this Section. If insufficient dimensions exist on-site, in
order to achieve a sufficient level of landscaping, the standards may be
reduced by up to 30 percent by the Plan Commission.
            (4)   Floodplain, Floodway, Floodlands, and Wetland Areas. Areas
located within floodplains, floodways, floodlands, and wetlands are exempt from
the landscaping requirements set forth in this Section.
         c.   Bufferyards Required. Bufferyards are required to ameliorate
nuisances between certain adjacent zoning districts.
            (1)   Definition. A bufferyard is a combination of a setback and a
visual buffer or barrier, and is a yard or area together with the planting and/
or landscape structure required thereon. The amount of land, the type of
planting, and the amount of planting specified for each bufferyard requirement
of this Chapter are designed to ameliorate nuisances between certain adjacent
zoning districts.
            (2)   Bufferyards Required to Separate Different Zoning Districts.
Bufferyards shall be required to separate different zoning districts from each
other. Bufferyards function to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such
as dirt, litter, noise, glare of tights, signs, and unsightly buildings or
parking areas, or to provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of noise, odor,
or danger from fires or explosions.
            (3)   Standard Plant Units. All landscaping requirements of this
Section are stated in terms of the number of standard plant units required.
This Section defines the standard plant unit and its alternatives. All required
landscaping shall conform to one or more of the plant unit alternatives of this
Section. The following Table 35-22(1) specifies the plant unit alternatives.
The five alternative plant mixes are interchangeable. Where a year-round screen
is required, alternative Unit A is preferred and may be required by the Plan
Commission.
Table 35-22(1) “PLANT UNIT TYPE ALTERNATIVES”
ALTERNATIVE PLANT TYPES OF PLANTS MINIMUM SIZE OF PLANTS MINIMUM QUANTITY OF
UNIT TYPE         REQUIRED                               PLANTS REQUIRED
ALTERNATIVE PLANT TYPES OF PLANTS    MINIMUM SIZE OF PLANTS MINIMUM QUANTITY OF
UNIT TYPE         REQUIRED                                  PLANTS REQUIRED
                  Canopy/Shade Trees 3-inch caliper
TYPE A            Single Stem:       12 feet tall           1
                  Multi-stem Clump:
                  Ornamental Trees   1.5 inch caliper       2
                  Shrubs             2 feet tall            8
                  Canopy/Shade Trees 3-inch caliper
TYPE B*           Single Stem:       12 feet tall           1
                  Multi-stem Clump:
                  Ornamental Trees   1.5 inch caliper       1
                  Evergreen Trees    6 feet tall            1
                  Shrubs             2 feet tall            6
                  Canopy/Shade Trees 3-inch caliper
TYPE C*           Single Stem:       12 feet tall           1
                  Multi-stem Clump:
                  Evergreen Trees    6 feet tall            2
                  Shrubs             2 feet tall            5
TYPE D*           Evergreen Trees    6 feet tall            3
                  Evergreen Shrubs   2 feet tall            14
                  Canopy/Shade Trees 3-inch caliper
TYPE E            Single Stem:       12 feet tall           2
                  Multi-stem Clump:
                  Shrubs             2 feet tall            10
 
*Note: Not to be used in off-street parking areas.
         d.   Credit for Existing Plant Materials. Credit for existing plant
material will be allowed to offset required plant unit landscaping in the
bufferyards and parking lots as follows:
            (1)   Bufferyards. Existing canopy trees six feet in height or more
shall be counted on an individual basis towards the planting requirements; all
other components of a plant unit are required including all ornamental trees,
evergreen trees, and shrubs.
            (2)   Parking Lots. Any existing canopy trees six feet in height or
more, and located within parking lot areas, shall be subtracted from the
required amount of parking lot landscaping on a tree-by-tree basis.
         e.   General Landscaping Requirements.
            (1)   Physical Containment of Landscaped Areas. All landscaped
areas located within or adjacent to a parking area, or adjacent to a public
street or sidewalk, shall be designed to contain landscape materials and to
prevent vehicular encroachment (i.e., through the use of continuous concrete
curbing, railroad ties, headers, or depressed construction).
            (2)   Artificial Landscape Materials. Artificial trees, shrubs,
turf, or plants shall not be permitted as landscaping.
            (3)   Groundcover. The use of landscape fabrics under all areas
landscaped with non-living materials, except those areas set aside for
stormwater retention/detention, is recommended to prevent weed growth.
            (4)   Location. New vegetation shall be selected, planted, and
maintained so that at maturity it will not interfere with utility lines, snow
storage areas, vehicular parking, pedestrian circulation, traffic sight
visibility at driveways and street intersections, and will not cause damage or
upheaval of sidewalks and pavement
            (5)   Installation.
               (a)   Timing of Installation. Landscaping shall be installed in
accordance with the approved landscape plan prior to issuance of an Occupancy
Permit The Village of Rochester will have the right to refuse approval of any
project not meeting the provisions of this Section.
               (b)   Financial Surety Required. If approved landscaping cannot
be installed prior to the issuance of an Occupancy Permit by the Building
Inspector, an Occupancy Permit may be issued by the Building Inspector if the
applicant provides a form of surety acceptable by the Village Attorney which
meets the total estimated costs of the approved landscaping improvements. The
application shall be accompanied by a complete estimate of the total cost of
the approved landscaping. All landscape materials shall be guaranteed by the
applicant, or applicant’s contractor, for two years.
               (c)   Return of Financial Surety. When it is determined by the
Zoning Administrator that the landscaping has been installed in accordance with
the approved plans, the Village of Rochester shall return the financial surety
to the applicant
            (6)   Maintenance. Landscaping shall be maintained as follows:
               (a)   Maintenance of all landscaping shall be the responsibility
of the property owner or homeowners' association (as applicable) and shall
consist of regular watering, pruning, mowing, fertilizing, and the removal and
replacement of irrigation systems and architectural features.
               (b)   The owner or liable entity in control of any private
premises shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter and weeds.
               (c)   Landscape Phasing. Future building pads within a phased
development shall be maintained in a dust-free condition vegetated with ground
cover.
               (d)   Plant Replacement. Any plant materials included in an
approved landscaping plan that do not survive a plant establishment period of
two years after installation shall be replaced with plant material(s) of the
same or like species of equal size within the next planting season, but in any
event, within six months of the plant's demise. Said replacement shall be made
by the property owner or, in the case of landscape plant materials located
within a landscape easement under the control of a homeowners' association, the
homeowners' association shall be responsible for said replacement
         f.   General Bufferyard Requirements.
            (1)   Basis of Standards. Bufferyard standards are based on a
required relative bufferyard intensity value. A variety of combinations of
bufferyard width, planting intensity, and structural options (i.e., fences and
earthen berms) may be selected from Table 35-22(2) to reach the required
bufferyard intensity value.
            (2)   Location of Bufferyards. Bufferyards shall be located along
the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel, and shall extend to the lot or parcel
boundary line. Bufferyards shall not be located on any portion of an existing
or dedicated public or private street or right-of-way.
            (3)   Bufferyard Plant Material Groupings. Required bufferyard
plantings may be planted in natural-appearing groupings along the total length
of the bufferyard and need not be spaced uniformly along said total bufferyard
length.
            (4)   Plant Materials.
               (a)   For each bufferyard listed, a specific combination of
deciduous canopy, shade, and ornamental trees; evergreen trees; and shrubs is
required as indicated in Table 35-22(2).
               (b)   All bufferyard areas shall be seeded with lawn or native
groundcover unless such vegetation is already fully established.
               (c)   The exact placement of required plants and structures
shall be the decision of the property developer.
               (d)   Fences. Fences used to achieve the required bufferyard
intensity factor shall be constructed of rock, masonry or wood. Chain link
fences and chain link with slats shall be prohibited from being used to achieve
required bufferyard intensity factors. All fences used shall also meet the
requirements for the construction of fences in Section
35-180.
               (e)   Height of Required Vegetation. Height of vegetation
selected for required bufferyards shall be measured from the highest finished
adjacent grade of the element to be screened.
            (5)   Berming. Earthen berms shall be designed to transition to
existing surrounding grades, not to exceed a slope ratio of two to one (2:1)
and shall be covered with plant material, groundcover, or partially rip-rapped
to prevent erosion. Berms with vegetative cover shall be designed to retain
irrigation water rather than encourage run off. All earthen berms shall be
safely designed in order to accommodate mowing when needed.
            (6)   Calculation of Bufferyard Requirements.
               (a)   Bufferyard requirements are calculated using the standards
listed in this Section for bufferyards.
               (b)   Bufferyard standards listed in this Section are to be
calculated for every 100 linear feet of peripheral lot line boundary and/or
street frontage present on a given lot.
               (c)   In instances where the zoning district boundary and/or
street frontage is less than 100 feet, the required bufferyard planting shall
be one plant unit (See Table 35-22(1)).
            (7)   Procedures for Determining Minimum Required Bufferyards. To
determine the type of bufferyard required on a parcel, between two parcels or
lots, or between a parcel or lot and a street, the following procedures shall
be used:
               (a)   Identify whether any portion or property line of the
parcel or lot coincides with a zoning district boundary. If it does, determine
the abutting zoning districts on both sides of the property line.
               (b)   Refer to Table 35-22(2) to determine the required
bufferyard intensity factor needed to be achieved between the two zoning
districts.
               (c)   Based upon the bufferyard intensity factor required, refer
to the applicable Tables 35- 22(3) to 35-22(7) to select the minimum number of
plant materials (per 100 feet of bufferyard length), the bufferyard width, and
required structure type combination by selecting the desired alternative
bufferyard type.
               (d)   Calculate the actual number of plants required by
selecting the minimum number of plant materials (per 100 feet of bufferyard
length) from the alternatives indicated in the applicable Tables 35-22(3) to
35-22(7) and multiply by the hundreds of feet of bufferyard to be planted.
            (8)   Limitations on Bufferyard Use. A bufferyard may be used for
passive recreation. It may contain pedestrian or bike trails provided that
               (a)   No plant material is eliminated;
               (b)   The total width of the bufferyard is maintained; and
               (c)   All other regulations of this Chapter are met. In no
event, however, shall swimming pools, decks, drives, curbing, stormwater
detention/retention ponds, tennis courts, sports fields, golf courses, parking
lots, or other similar uses (as determined by the Plan Commission) be permitted
in bufferyards.
         g.   Table of Required Bufferyards Between Zoning Districts. The
minimum required bufferyard intensity factor for bufferyards between zoning
districts set forth in Table 35-22(2) refers to the bufferyard width and plant
unit standards set forth in Tables 35-22(3) through 35- 22(7) of this Section.
Bufferyards are required between adjacent zoning districts.
Table 35-22(2) MINIMUM REQUIRED BUFFERYARD INTENSITY FACTOR LEVELS OF
BUFFERYARDS BETWEEN ZONING DISTRICTS. See Instructions, Key and Notes, Below.
ABUTTING ZONING DISTRICT
        R-1             B-1  M-1  A-1          F-1
        R-2 R-8 R-3 R-4 Thru Thru Thru C-1 P-1 GFP SW  PUD HPO
        R-6 R-9 R-5 R-7 B-6  M-4  A-4  C-2 P-2 FF  SD
                                  & UR
   R-1
   R-2  0   1   1   0   0    0    0    0   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
A  R-6
P  R-8  1   0   1   1   0    0    0    0   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
P  R-9
L  R-3  2   2   0   2   2    0    0    0   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
I  R-5
C  R-4  3   3   1   0   1    0    0    0   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
A  R-7
B  B-1
L  Thru 4   4   4   4   0    0    4    4   4   (a) (a) (a) (a)
E  B-6
  M-1
Z  Thru 5   5   5   5   5    0    5    5   5   (a) (a) (a) (a)
O  M-4
N  A-1
I  Thru 0   0   0   0   0    0    0    0   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
N  A-4
G  & UR
   C-1  0   0   0   0   0    0    0    0   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
D  C-2
I  P-1  3   3   3   3   3    3    3    3   0   (a) (a) (a) (a)
S  P-2
T  F-1
R  GFP  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)  (a)  (a)  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)
I  FF
C  SW   (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)  (a)  (a)  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)
T  SD
   PUD  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)  (a)  (a)  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)
   HPO  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)  (a)  (a)  (a) (a) (a) (a) (a) (a)
 
INSTRUCTIONS, KEY AND NOTES
Read the table down to find the Applicable District, then across to find the
Abutting District.
The Applicable District is the district that the land that is the subject of
the permit application lies in. This is the land upon which the Bufferyard must
be installed.
The Abutting District is the land that is adjacent to the land that is the
subject of the permit, whether or not there is a pre-existent development on
that land.
(a)   As determined by the underlying zoning district(s).
0 = No bufferyard is required. All applicable zoning district setbacks are
required.
1 = Bufferyard Intensity Factor 1 (See Table 35-22(3))
2 = Bufferyard Intensity Factor 2 (See Table 35-22(4))
3 = Bufferyard Intensity Factor 3 (See Table 35-22(5))
4 = Bufferyard Intensity Factor 4 (See Table 35-22(6))
5 = Bufferyard Intensity Factor 5 (See Table 35-22(7))
         h.   Minimum Required Bufferyard Width and Plant Material Standards.
The following Tables 35-22(3) through 35-22(7) set forth the minimum bufferyard
width and plant material standards required for achieving required bufferyard
intensity levels. Tables 35-22(3) through 35-22(7) are designed so as to allow
for choice from a variety of alternative bufferyard widths and general
landscape plant material types in order to meet the required bufferyard
intensity levels required elsewhere in this Section.
Table 35-22(3) BUFFERYARD INTENSITY FACTOR 1:
ALTERNATIVE PLANT MATERIAL STANDARDS
                            MINIMUM QUANTITY
                            OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM STRUCTURE
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH TYPE (if
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)   PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           required)
                            BUFFERYARD
                            LENGTH
                             MINIMUM QUANTITY
                             OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS  TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH STRUCTURE TYPE
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)    PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           (if required)
                             BUFFERYARD
                             LENGTH
Type 1       Canopy/Shade    0.0              5                Minimum 5-foot
             Trees                                             tall solid fence
             Ornamental      0.0
             Trees
             Shrubs          5.6
Type 1A      Canopy/Shade    0.7              5                None
             Trees
             Ornamental      1.4
             Trees
             Shrubs          5.6
Type 1B*     Canopy/Shade    0.6              10               None
             Trees
             Ornamental      0.6
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 0.6
             Shrubs          3.6
Type1C*      Canopy/Shade    0.5              15               None
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 0.9
             Shrubs          2.3
Type 1D*     Evergreen Trees 1.1              20               None
             Evergreen       4.9
             Shrubs
Type 1E      Canopy Trees    0.5              25               None
             Shrubs          2.5
 
*Note: Not to be used in off-street parking areas.
(a)   See Table 35-22(1) for minimum required plant material sizes.
TABLE 35-22(4) BUFFERYARD INTENSITY FACTOR 2: ALTERNATIVE PLANT MATERIALS
STANDARDS
                            MINIMUM QUANTITY
                            OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM STRUCTURE
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH TYPE (if
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)   PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           required)
                            BUFFERYARD
                            LENGTH
                             MINIMUM QUANTITY
                             OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS  TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH STRUCTURE TYPE
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)    PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           (if required)
                             BUFFERYARD
                             LENGTH
Type 2       Canopy/Shade    0.4              10               Minimum 6-foot
             Trees                                             tall solid fence
             Ornamental      0.9
             Trees
             Shrubs          3.4
Type 2A      Canopy/Shade    1.7              15               2-foot berm
             Trees
             Ornamental      3.4
             Trees
             Shrubs          13.6
Type 2B*     Canopy/Shade    2.3              20               None
             Trees
             Ornamental      2.3
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 2.3
             Shrubs          13.5
Type2C*      Canopy/Shade    2.1              25               None
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 4.2
             Shrubs          10.5
Type 2D*     Evergreen Trees 5.9              30               None
             Evergreen       27.3
             Shrubs
Type 2E      Canopy Trees    2.2              30               3-foot berm
             Shrubs          11.0
 
*Note: Not to be used in off-street parking areas
(a) See Table 35-22(1) for minimum required plant material sizes.
Table 35-22(5) BUFFERYARD INTENSITY FACTOR 3: ALTERNATIVE PLANT MATERIAL
STANDARDS
                            MINIMUM QUANTITY
                            OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM STRUCTURE
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH TYPE (if
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)   PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           required)
                            BUFFERYARD
                            LENGTH
                             MINIMUM QUANTITY
                             OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS  TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH STRUCTURE TYPE
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)    PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           (if required)
                             BUFFERYARD
                             LENGTH
Type 3       Canopy/Shade    2.3              15               Minimum 6-foot
             Trees                                             tall solid fence
             Ornamental      4.6
             Trees
             Shrubs          12.4
Type 3A      Canopy/Shade    2.3              20               3-foot berm
             Trees
             Ornamental      4.6
             Trees
             Shrubs          18.4
Type 3B*     Canopy/Shade    3.4              20               None
             Trees
             Ornamental      3.4
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 3.4
             Shrubs          20.4
Type 3C*     Canopy/Shade    3.2              25               None
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 6.4
             Shrubs          16.0
Type 3D*     Evergreen Trees 9.2              30               None
             Evergreen       42.7
             Shrubs
Type 3E      Canopy Trees    5.8              35               None
             Shrubs          29.0
 
*Note: Not to be used in off-street parking areas.
(a) See Table 35-22(1) for minimum required plant sizes
Table 35-22(6) BUFFERYARD INTENSITY FACTOR 4: ALTERNATIVE PLANT MATERIAL
STANDARDS
                            MINIMUM QUANTITY
                            OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM STRUCTURE
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH TYPE (if
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)   PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           required)
                            BUFFERYARD
                            LENGTH
                             MINIMUM QUANTITY
                             OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS  TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH STRUCTURE TYPE
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)    PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           (if required)
                             BUFFERYARD
                             LENGTH
Type 4       Canopy/Shade    3.0              20               Minimum 6-foot
             Trees                                             tall solid fence
             Ornamental      6.0
             Trees
             Shrubs          24.0
Type 4A      Canopy/Shade    3.0              25               4-foot berm
             Trees
             Ornamental      6.0
             Trees
             Shrubs          24.0
Type 4B*     Canopy/Shade    3.7              25               2-foot berm
             Trees
             Ornamental      3.7
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 3.7
             Shrubs          22.2
Type 4C*     Canopy/Shade    4.3              30               None
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 8.5
             Shrubs          21.3
Type 4D*     Evergreen Trees 12.3             35               None
             Evergreen       57.4
             Shrubs
Type 4E      Canopy Trees    7.9              40               None
             Shrubs          39.5
 
*Note: Not to be used in off-street parking areas.
(a) See Table 35-22(1) for minimum required plant sizes
Table 35-22(7) BUFFERYARD INTENSITY FACTOR 5: ALTERNATIVE PLANT MATERIAL
STANDARDS
                            MINIMUM QUANTITY
                            OF EACH PLANT    MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM STRUCTURE
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS TYPE REQUIRED    BUFFERYARD WIDTH TYPE (if
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)   PER 100 FEET OF  (feet)           required)
                            BUFFERYARD
                            LENGTH
                             MINIMUM
                             QUANTITY OF
BUFFERYARD   TYPE OF PLANTS  EACH PLANT TYPE MINIMUM REQUIRED MINIMUM STRUCTURE
ALTERNATIVES REQUIRED (a)    REQUIRED PER    BUFFERYARD WIDTH TYPE (if
                             100 FEET OF     (feet)           required)
                             BUFFERYARD
                             LENGTH
Type 5       Canopy/Shade    4.1             20               Minimum 6-foot
             Trees                                            tall solid fence
             Ornamental      8.2
             Trees
             Shrubs          32.8
Type 5A      Canopy/Shade    4.1             25               4-foot berm
             Trees
             Ornamental      8.2
             Trees
             Shrubs          32.8
Type 5B*     Canopy/Shade    4.8             30               2-foot berm
             Trees
             Ornamental      4.8
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 4.8
             Shrubs          28.5
Type 5C*     Canopy/Shade    5.3             35               None
             Trees
             Evergreen Trees 10.6
             Shrubs          26.5
Type 5D*     Evergreen Trees 15.6            40               None
             Evergreen       72.8
             Shrubs
Type 5E      Canopy Trees    9.0             40               None
             Shrubs          45
 
*Note: Not to be used in off-street parking areas.
(a) See Table 35-22(1) for minimum required plant sizes
         i.   Minimum Plant Material Standards. All new landscape plant
material shall meet those standards set forth under the requirements of Section
2.08(d)(2)(d) of this Chapter.
      4.   Parking area requirements. The number of spaces required for use,
relation to building and road, and landscaping can be found in Sections
35-160 through 162.
         a.   Intent. Parking areas should provide safe, convenient, and
efficient access for vehicles and pedestrians. They should be distributed
around large buildings in order to shorten the distance to other buildings and
public sidewalks; and to reduce the overall scale of paved surfaces.
         b.   Standard. No more than 60 percent of the off-street parking area
for the entire property shall be located between the front facade of the
principal building(s) and the primary abutting street unless the principal
building(s) and/or parking lots are screened from view by outlot development
(such as restaurants) and additional tree plantings and/or berms approved by
the Plan Commission. Green islands shall be located between double loaded
parking bands. A double loaded parking band is a 19 foot wide parking stall, 22
foot wide travel aisle, and 19 foot wide parking stall.
      5.   Sign Requirements. See Sections
35-170 through 178 of this Chapter.
      6.   Pedestrian Flows
         a.   Intent. Pedestrian accessibility opens auto-oriented developments
to the neighborhood, thereby reducing traffic impacts and enabling the
development to project a friendlier, more inviting image. This section sets
forth standards for public sidewalks and internal pedestrian circulation
systems that can provide user-friendly pedestrian access as well as pedestrian
safety, shelter, and convenience within the center grounds.
         b.   Standards.
            (1)   How people get from one building to another on foot.
Sidewalks shall be provided along the full length of the building along any
facade featuring a customer entrance, and along any facade abutting public
parking areas.
            (2)   How people from neighboring areas get to store on foot.
Continuous internal pedestrian walkways shall be provided from the public
sidewalk or right-of-way to the pedestrian entrances of all principal buildings
on the site. At a minimum, walkways shall connect focal points of pedestrian
activity such as, but not limited to, transit stops, street crossings, building
and store entry points pursuant to
Chapter 6, subject to review by the Plan Commission.
      7.   Outdoor Lighting.
         a.   Intent. All exterior lighting shall be unobtrusive, harmonious
with the local area and constructed or located so that only the area intended
is safely illuminated and off-site glare is fully controlled. Non-residential
sites shall have a Lighting Plan designed by an Engineer and approved by the
Plan Commission.
         b.   Standards.
            (1)   Lighting of the site shall be of a type, design, color and
height to blend with the site and landscaping.
            (2)   Lighting of the site shall be of a design and height and
shall be located so as to illuminate only the site and not be a beacon of
distraction or potential hazard to traffic or to people working or living in
the vicinity of the site.
      8.   Noise Abatement. Refer to Section
35-250, Performance Standards.
      9.   Location and Design of Loading Facilities and Waste Storage.
         a.   Intent. Loading areas and outdoor storage areas exert visual and
noise impacts on surrounding neighborhoods. These areas, when visible from
adjoining properties and/or public streets, should be screened, recessed or
enclosed. While screens and recesses can effectively mitigate these impacts,
the selection of inappropriate screening materials can exacerbate the problem.
         b.   Standards.
            (1)   Visibility. Areas for outdoor storage, truck parking, trash
collection or compaction, loading, or other such uses shall not be visible from
roadways and neighboring properties.
            (2)   Location. No areas for outdoor storage, trash collection or
compaction, loading, or other such uses shall be located within 20 feet of any
public street, public sidewalk, or internal pedestrian way.
            (3)   Visual and acoustic impact. Loading docks, truck parking,
outdoor storage, utility meters, HVAC equipment, trash dumpsters, trash
compaction, and other service functions shall be incorporated into the overall
design of the building and the landscaping so that the visual and acoustic
impacts of these functions are fully contained and out of view from adjacent
properties and public streets, and no attention is attracted to the functions
by the use of screening materials that are different from or inferior to the
principal materials of the building and landscape.
            (4)   Non-enclosed and seasonal. Non-enclosed areas for the storage
and sale of seasonal inventory shall be permanently defined and screened with
walls and/or fences. Materials, colors, and designs of screening walls and/or
fences and the cover shall conform to those used as predominant materials and
colors of the building. If such areas are to be covered, then the covering
shall conform to those used as predominant materials and colors on the
buildings.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-23 REDUCTION OR JOINT USE OF LOTS
   No lot, yard, parking area, building area, or other space shall be reduced
in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of this Chapter. No part
of any lot, yard, parking area, or other space required for a structure or use
shall be used for any other structure or use except pursuant to a Conditional
Use Permit or Planned Unit Development approved by the Plan Commission.
[35-24 to 35-28 reserved]
35-29 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the Village of Rochester is hereby divided
into basic districts and overlay districts designated as follows:
   R-1   Single-Family Residential District
   R-2   Single-Family Residential District
   R-3   One and Two Family Residential District
   R-4   Multiple-Family Residential District
   R-5   Two Family Residential District
   R-6   Suburban Residential District (Sewered)
   R-7   Suburban Residential District (Sewered-Large Lot)
   R-8   Suburban Residential District (Unsewered)
   R-9   Suburban Country Estates Residential District (Unsewered)
   B-1   General Business District
   B-2   Limited Business District
   B-3    General Business District
   B-4   Highway Business District
   B-5   Planned Business District
   B-6   Water-oriented Business District
   M-1   Limited Industrial District
   M-2   General Industrial District
   M-3   Heavy Industrial District
   M-4   Quarrying District
   A-1   General Farming District
   A-2   General Farming and Residential District
   A-3   General Farming- Holding District
   A-4   Truck Farming District
   UR   Urban Reserve District
   C-1   Resource Conservation District
   C-2   Upland Resource Conservation District
   P-1   Institutional Park District
   P-2   Recreational Park District
   F-1   Floodway District
   GFP   General Floodplain District
   FF   Flood Fringe District
   SW   Shoreland-Wetland District
   SD   Shoreland District
   PUD   Planned Unit Development Overlay District   
   HPO   Historic Preservation Overlay District
   Boundaries of these Districts are established as shown on the map entitled
"Zoning Map - Village of Rochester, Wisconsin," as established and updated
pursuant to s.
35-30 of this Chapter. Such boundaries shall be construed to follow: corporate
limits, U.S. Public Land Survey lines; lot or property lines; centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, easements and railroad or utility right-of-way or
such lines extended, unless otherwise noted on the Zoning Map. The boundaries
of the F-1 Floodway District, the GFP General Floodplain District and the FFO
Flood Fringe Overlay District shall be determined as set forth in
Chapter 37. Vacation of public streets and alleys shall cause the land vacated
to be automatically placed in the same district as the abutting side to which
the vacated land reverts.
   Annexations to or consolidations with the Village subsequent to the
effective date of this Chapter shall be placed in the R-1 Residential District,
or as specifically set forth in the Ordinance annexing the land. Annexations or
consolidations in the floodplain shall be placed in the appropriate district as
set forth in
Chapter 37.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 10-12-2020)
35-30 ZONING MAP
   A copy of the Zoning Map shall be adopted and approved with the text as part
of this Chapter and shall be available to the public in the office of the
Village Clerk. The Zoning Map shall also show the airport affected area as
defined by Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(6)(am)1.b., i.e., the area located within three
miles of an airport. Changes to the zoning districts shall be shown on the
Zoning Map after adoption. Changes in the floodplain districts shall not be
effective until approved by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), as set forth in
Chapter 37.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022)
35-31 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is intended to provide for high
quality single family development, including accessory uses and essential
services.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-1 Single Family Residential District are allowed
and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this
Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Single-family dwellings at a maximum density of 3.6 units per acre on
lots served by public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
      Bed and Breakfast Establishments
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width     Minimum 90 feet
Lot                        
                Area      Minimum 12,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.   
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. one story;
                          1,700 sq. ft. multi-story.
                           
                Street    Minimum 40 ft. from property line.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 8 ft. one side with a minimum total of 20 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 25 ft. or 20% of total lot depth, whichever
                          is greater.
 
35-32 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The R-2 Single-Family Residential District is intended to provide for high
quality single family residential development, including accessory uses and
essential services.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-2 Single Family Residential District are allowed
and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this
Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Single-family dwellings at a maximum density of 4.6 units per acre on
lots served by public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
      Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 66 feet*
Lot                        
                Area      Minimum 10,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. one story;
                          1,700 sq. ft multi-story.
                           
                Street    Minimum 25 ft. from property line
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 8 ft. one side with a minimum total of 20 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 25 ft. or 20% of total lot depth, whichever
                          is greater.
 
*The minimum width of the lot at the street setback line must be maintained for
at least 50% of the depth of the lot for all lots divided after November 1,
2006.
35-33. R-3 ONE AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The R-3 One and Two-Family Residential District is intended to provide for
high quality one and two family residential development, including accessory
uses and essential services.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-3 One and Two-Family Residential District are
allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of
this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         One and Two-Family dwellings at a maximum density of 7.3 units per
acre on lots served by public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
      Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width     Minimum 66 feet - single family*
Lot                       Minimum 100 feet - two family*
                Area      Minimum 10,000 sq. ft. for single family and 6,000
                          sq. ft per unit for two family.
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. one story single family;
                          1,700 sq. ft. multi-story single family;
                          1,800 sq. ft. two-family
                Street    Minimum 25 ft. from property line.
                           
                Side      Minimum 8 ft. one side with a minimum total of 20 ft.
Yard (Setbacks)            
                          Minimum 25 ft. or 20% of total lot depth, whichever
                Rear      is greater.
                           
 
*The minimum width of the lot at the street setback line must be maintained for
at least 50% of the depth of the lot for all lots divided after November 1,
2006.
35-34. R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District is intended to provide for high
quality multiple family residential development, including accessory uses and
essential services.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-4 Multiple Family Residential District are allowed
and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this
Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
Multiple-family dwellings at a maximum density of three to eight units per
structure on lots served by public sanitary sewer. All R-4 Multiple Family
Residential development is subject to Village Plan Commission approval of
building site and operational plans. (See Section 13)
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
      Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 120 feet.
Lot                    Minimum 18,000 sq. ft. with a minimum of 4,500 sq.
                Area      ft. per one bedroom unit; and 6,000 sq. ft. per two
                          bedroom and three bedroom units.
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.   
Building        Area      Minimum 750 sq. ft. per one bedroom unit and 900 sq.
                          ft. per unit for 2 or 3 bedroom units.
                Street    Minimum 40 ft. from property line.
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 40 feet from each side.
                Rear      Minimum 40 ft. or 20% of total lot depth, whichever
                          is greater.
 
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-13-2023)
35-35. R-5 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-5 Two-Family Residential District are allowed and/
or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Two-family dwellings on lots served by a public sanitary sewer
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 100 feet
Lot                        
                Area      Minimum 10,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,800 sq. ft.
                           
                Street    Minimum 25 ft.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 10 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 25 ft.
                           
 
35-36. R-6 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (Sewered)
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-6, Suburban Residential District (Sewered) are
allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of
this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         One family dwellings on large lots served by public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   B.   Area Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 100 ft.
Lot                     
                Area      Minimum 20,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.   
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. for one story;
                          1,700 sq. ft. for multi-story.
                Street    Minimum 35 ft.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 10 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 50 ft.
                 
 
35-37. R-7 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (Sewered-Large Lot)
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-7 Suburban Residential District (Sewered – Large
Lot) are allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced
sections of this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Single family dwellings on large lots served by public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments..
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 150 ft.
Lot                     
                Area      Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.   
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. for one story;
                          1,700 sq. ft. for multi-story.
                Street    Minimum 50 ft.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 15 ft.
                 
                Rear      Minimum 50 ft.
                 
 
35-38. R-8 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (Unsewered):
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-8 Suburban Residential District (Unsewered) are
allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of
this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Single family dwellings on lots not served by public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width          Minimum 150 ft.
Lot                             
                Area              Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                                   
                Height         Maximum 35 ft.   
                                   
Building                          Minimum without garage:
                Area              1,200 sq. ft. for one story;
                                  1,700 sq. ft. for multi-story.
                Street      Minimum 50 ft.
                 
Yard (Setbacks) Side              Minimum 15 ft.
                                   
                Rear              Minimum 50 ft.
                 
 
35-39. R-9 COUNTRY ESTATES RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (Unsewered)
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-9 Country Estates Residential District (Unsewered)
are allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of
this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Single family dwellings on estate lots and sustained yield forestry,
not served by sanitary sewer.
      2.   Accessory and Other Uses: See s.
35-21.
      3.   Conditional Uses: See s.
35-100.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments
         Stables, riding stables
         Nurseries, orchards
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 300 feet
Lot                     
                Area      Minimum five acres
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.   
                           
Building                  Minimum without garage:
                Area      1,200 square feet for one story;
                          1,700 square feet for multi-story.
                Street    Minimum 100 ft.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 100 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 50 ft.
                 
 
35-40 R-10 RESIDENTIAL FARMING DISTRICT.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the R-10 Residential Farming District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
         Single family dwellings, whether or not such dwelling is associated
with farm operations, not served by sanitary sewer.
         The principal structure shall be the residential structure, intended
to service the parcel on which such residence is located.
      2.   Accessory Uses.
         See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
         Not more than one roadside stand on any one farm shall be permitted as
an accessory use.
      3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
         Apiculture.
         Forestry.
         Greenhouses, plant nurseries, floriculture.
         Raising of hay, cash crop grain, mint, grass, seed crops, silage, tree
fruits, nuts and berries, and vegetables.
         Orchards.
         Viticulture.
   B.   Area Requirements.
                Width  Minimum 150 feet
                       Minimum:
Lot                    Single Family, 40,000 sq. ft.
                Area   Two Family, 80,000 sq. ft.
                       Maximum:
                       Less than 5 acres
Building/Structure:
                Height Maximum 35 feet
Dwelling               Minimum:
                Area   1,200 sq. ft. single story;
                       1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street Minimum 75 feet
Yard (Setbacks) Side   Minimum 25 feet
                Rear   Minimum 25 feet
 
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 4-24-2023)
35-41 B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The B-1 Central Business district is intended to provide for the orderly
continuation of the traditional central business district. The business
activities are of a general nature and have been characterized by on-street
parking and structures that abut the street right-of-way. While continuing
those existing business at their present level of service, new business
structures located in the B-1 business district are required to provide for
off-street parking and loading, unless exempted under other provisions of this
Chapter. Conditional uses require a public hearing because of their particular
characteristics. These uses may also be subject to Village Plan Commission
approval of building site and operational plans. (See Sections
35-100 and
35-230.)
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-1 Central Business District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
      Bakeries
      Banks, Savings and Loan Associations, and other financial and lending
institutions
      Bars, taverns and cocktail lounges
      Beauty and barber shops
      Caterers
      Clinics, medical or dental
      Clothing and clothing repair or alteration stores
      Clubs, fraternities and meeting halls (private)
      Dry cleaners with no on-site cleaning facilities
      Dwellings/residential uses as a permitted use when combined with another
permitted use and are only allowed on the second floor of an existing
commercial builidng
      Florists
      Liquor stores, packaged beverage stores
      Monument sales
      Movie rental stores
      Museums, historical societies
      Newspaper offices and press rooms
      Office supply stores
      Photographic studios and supplies
      Professional offices, business offices
      Public utility offices
      Public parking lots and structures
      Radio and television stores
      Restaurants (sit-down, without drive-through service)
      Retail sales of perishable and non-perishable goods
      Retail stores
      School of dance
      Self-service laundromats, including pick-up laundry
      Tanning salons
      Tobacco stores
      Trade and contractor offices5
      Trade and Variety stores
      Other uses similar to or customarily incidental to the uses listed above
      Note: All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      Note: All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state
trunk highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or
mapped centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use
Permits
   2.   Accessory and Other Uses:
      a.   Garages for storage of vehicles in conjunction with the operation of
a permitted use.
      b.   Off-street parking areas, provided that no truck with more than six
wheels may be parked on the property, unless the vehicle is parked entirely
inside of a building, for more than two hours.
      c.   See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
   3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
      Uses set forth in s.
35-100E, provided that no truck with more than six wheels may be parked on the
property, unless the vehicle is entirely inside of a building, for more than
two hours, unless otherwise allowed by the Plan Commission.
      Funeral homes, provided all principal structures and uses are not less
than 25 feet from any lot line
      Light manufacturing, of a limited nature and size, that is found by the
Plan Commission not to be detrimental to the neighborhood and will not emit
noise, smoke, dust, dirt, odorous or noxious gases, provided that a product
produced on-site is also sold at retail on-site, including, but not limited to,
small wineries, hard cider manufacturers, brew pubs, specialty candy
manufacturers, etc. The manufacturer may provide additional activities in the
building (if properly licensed) such as conferences and workshops related to
the manufactured goods, tastings, pairings, etc. Cheese manufacturing is not
permitted under this category. The use shall be contained entirely within the
building and there shall be no outside storage. The applicant shall provide the
methods to be used to address noise and air quality in the application for the
CUP.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
      1.   Sewered Lots.
 
                Width     Minimum 66 feet
Lot (sewered)              
                Area      Minimum 10,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 feet
                           
Building                  Minimum:
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. single story;
                          1,700 sq. ft. multiple-story.
                Street    Minimum 25 feet
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 6 feet
                           
                Rear      Minimum 25 feet
                 
 
   2.   Unsewered Lots.
 
Lot (unsewered) Width  Minimum 150 feet
                 
               Area   Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                 
Building        Height Maximum 35 feet
                       
                       Minimum
               Area   1,200 sq. ft. single story
                       1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                        
Yard (setbacks) Street Minimum 50 feet
                 
               Side   Minimum 25 feet
                 
               Rear   Minimum 35 feet
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2020-4, passed 10-12-2020 )
35-42 B-2 LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The B-2 Limited Business District is intended to provide for individual or
limited office, professional, and special service uses where the activity would
be compatible with other neighborhood uses and not exhibit the intense activity
of other business districts.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-2 Limited Business District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Special Regulations. To encourage a business use environment that is
compatible with the residential character of the Village, zoning permits for
permitted uses in B-2 Limited Business District shall not be issued without
prior review by and approval of the Village Plan Commission. Said review and
approval shall be concerned with adjacent uses, need for public or private
water supply and sanitary sewage disposal facilities, general layout, building
site and operation plans, ingress, egress, parking, loading and unloading,
screening and landscape plans pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   Permitted Principal Uses: (See Section
35-230 for review requirements).
      Electric, heating, and plumbing supply stores
      Furniture and upholstery repair
      Laundry and dry cleaning establishments employing not over seven
employees
      Paint, glass and wallpaper stores
      Pet shops
      Professional offices/businesses
      Radio and television broadcasting studios
      Second-hand stores
      Sign stores
      Trade and contractors offices
      Other uses similar to or customarily incidental to the uses listed above
      Note: All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      Note: All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state
trunk highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or
mapped centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use
Permits
      3.   Accessory and Other Uses:
         a.   Garages for storage of vehicles in conjunction with the operation
of a permitted use.
         b.   Off street parking areas, provided that no truck with more than
six wheels may be parked on the property, unless the vehicle is entirely inside
of a building, for more than two hours.
         c.   See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      4.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         Child care centers, provided that any outside play area is surrounded
by a security fence not exceeding a height of six feet and set back at least
five feet from any street right-of-way line with landscaping provided between
the fence and the street right-of-way line; that no play area shall consist of
entirely a hard surface.
         Hobby use, as that term is defined by the Internal Revenue Service,
provided that sales made from the site shall be limited to those occasional
sales as allowed during the conditional use permitting process.
         Light manufacturing, of a limited nature and size, that is found by
the Plan Commission not to be detrimental to the neighborhood and will not emit
noise, smoke, dust, dirt, odorous or noxious gases, including, but not limited
to, small wineries, hard cider manufacturers, brew pubs, specialty candy
manufacturers, etc. The manufacturer may provide additional activities in the
building (if properly licensed) such as conferences and workshops related to
the manufactured goods, tastings, pairings, etc. Cheese manufacturing is not
permitted under this category. The use shall be contained entirely within the
building and there shall be no outside storage. The applicant shall provide the
methods to be used to address noise and air quality in the application for the
CUP.
         Storage / Warehouse, provided that storage of hazardous materials,
including but not limited to explosive, flammable or combustible solid, liquid
or gas, radioactive material, etiological (disease causing) agents, or any
solid, liquid or gas creating a hazard, potential hazard, or public nuisance or
any solid, liquid or gas having a deleterious effect on the environment shall
not be allowed. Provided further that no truck with more than six wheels may be
parked on the property, unless the vehicle is entirely inside of a building,
for more than two hours.
         Vehicle Sales, Service and /or Repair Structures, provided that no
truck with more than six wheels may be parked on the property, unless the
vehicle is entirely inside of a building, for more than two hours.
         Other conditional uses as set forth in Section
35-100E, provided that no truck with more than six wheels may be parked on the
property, unless the vehicle is entirely inside of a building, for more than
two hours.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
      1.   Sewered Lots.
 
                Width       Minimum 75 feet
Lot (sewered)                
                Area        Minimum 15,000 sq. ft.
                             
Building        Height   Maximum 35 feet   
                            
                            Minimum
                Area        1,200 sq. ft. single story
                            1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                             
                Street      Minimum 25 ft.
                 
Yard (Setbacks) Side        Minimum 10 feet
                 
                Rear        Minimum 25 feet
 
   2.   Unsewered Lots.
 
                Width     Minimum 150 feet
Lot (Unsewered)            
                Area      Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                           
Building        Height  Maximum 35 feet   
                        
                          Minimum
               Area      1,200 sq. ft. single story
                          1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                           
                Street    Minimum 50 ft.
                 
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 25 feet
                 
                Rear      Minimum 35 feet
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-43. B-3 General Business District
   This district is intended to provide for the orderly and attractive grouping
at appropriate locations of commercial activities of a more general retail and
wholesale nature, and of the office and service facilities serving a larger
community trade area. The size and location of such districts shall be based
upon relationship of the community need and economy. No such district should be
less than 30,000 square feet in area.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-3 General Business District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Special Regulations. To encourage a business use environment that is
compatible with the residential character of the Village, zoning permits for
permitted uses in B-3 General Business District shall not be issued without
prior review by and approval of the Village Plan Commission. Said review and
approval shall be concerned with adjacent uses, need for public or private
water supply and sanitary sewage disposal facilities, general layout, building
site and operation plans, ingress, egress, parking, loading and unloading,
screening and landscape plans pursuant to this Chapter.
          2.   Permitted Principal Uses:
      Those Permitted Uses set forth under s.
35-41 for the B-1 Central Business District and B-2 Limited Business District,
except as limited below
      Auction Galleries
      Bicycle Sales and Service
      Electronic Repair
      Employment Agencies
      Fast Food Restaurants
      Garden sales
      Hotels, Motels, bed and breakfast, lodges
      Medical Appliance Stores
      Monument Sales
      Night clubs
      Pawn shops
      Physical Culture and Health studios
      Places of entertainment
      Private Clubs
      Restaurants (sit down, no drive through service)
      Tattoo Parlors
      Trade and Contractors offices
      Transportation Terminals, not including Trucking
      Vending Machine Sales, Service and Repair
      Welding Repair Shops
      Wholesale Establishments
      Note: All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
Note: All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits
   3.   Accessory and Other Uses:
      a.   Garages for storage of vehicles in conjunction with the operation of
a permitted use.
      b.   See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
   4.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
      Animal hospital or veterinary clinic provided that no service, including
the boarding of animals, is offered outside of an enclosed building.
      Child care centers, provided that any outside play area is surrounded by
a security fence not exceeding a height of six feet and set back at least five
feet from any street right-of-way line with landscaping provided between the
fence and the street right-of-way line; and that no play area shall consist of
entirely a hard surface.
      Drive-in establishments serving food or beverages for consumption outside
the structure.
      Flea markets.
      Funeral homes, provided that all principal structures and uses are not
less than 25 feet from any lot line.
      General warehousing.
      Hobby Use, as that term is defined by the Internal Revenue Service,
provided that sales made from the site shall be limited to those occasional
sales as allowed during the conditional use permitting process.
      Landscaping contractor’s offices and yards.
      Light manufacturing, of a limited nature and size, that is found by the
Plan Commission not to be detrimental to the neighborhood and will not emit
noise, smoke, dust, dirt, odorous or noxious gases, including, but not limited
to, small wineries, hard cider manufacturers, brew pubs, specialty candy
manufacturers, etc. The manufacturer may provide additional activities in the
building (if properly licensed) such as conferences and workshops related to
the manufactured goods, tastings, pairings, etc. Cheese manufacturing is not
permitted under this category. The use shall be contained entirely within the
building and there shall be no outside storage. The applicant shall provide the
methods to be used to address noise and air quality in the application for the
CUP.
      Lumber and building supply yards.
      Printing and publishing houses and related activities.
      Self-service storage facilities including incidental manager’s office/
quarters along county trunk highways and other similar major arterials. The
maximum lot coverage by structures for a self-service storage facility, shall
not exceed 50 percent, and such facility shall not exceed 15 feet in height,
and shall meet the required setbacks.
      Off season boat storage facilities for boats and other recreational
vehicles, such as campers, travel trailers, snowmobiles, off-road vehicles and
motor homes, however, this is allowed only as an accessory use to an approved
self-service storage facility.
      Service and sales establishments for automobiles, including body repair
shops and used car lots but not including the storage of junked or wrecked
automobiles and/or parts.
      Storage / Warehouse, provided that storage of hazardous materials,
including but not limited to explosive, flammable or combustible solid, liquid
or gas, radioactive material, etiological (disease causing) agents, or any
solid, liquid or gas creating a hazard, potential hazard, or public nuisance,
or any solid, liquid or gas having a deleterious effect on the environment
shall not be allowed.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
      1.    Sewered Lots.
 
                Width  Minimum 120 feet
Lot                     
                Area   Minimum 30,000 sq. ft.
                        
                Height Maximum 35 feet
                   
Building               Minimum
                Area   1,200 sq. ft. single story
                       1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street Minimum 40 ft.
                 
Yard (Setbacks)        Minimum 10 feet, or equal to the required sideyard in
                Side   the adjacent district, whichever is greater
                        
                Rear   Minimum 25 feet
 
   2.   Unsewered Lots.
 
                Width       Minimum 150 feet
Lot (Unsewered)              
                Area        Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                             
Building        Height   Maximum 35 feet   
                            
                            Minimum
               Area        1,200 sq. ft. single story
                            1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street      Minimum 50 ft.
                 
Yard (Setbacks) Side        Minimum 25 feet
                 
                Rear        Minimum 35 feet
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-44 B-4 Highway Business District
   The B-4 Highway Business District is intended to provide the orderly and
attractive grouping at appropriate locations along principal highway routes of
those businesses and customer service establishments which are logically
related to and dependent upon highway traffic or which are specifically
designed to serve the needs of such traffic.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-4 Highway Business District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Special Regulations. To encourage a business use environment that is
compatible with the residential character of the Village, Zoning Permits for
uses in B-4 Highway Business District shall not be issued without prior review
by and approval of the Village Plan Commission. Said review and approval shall
be concerned with adjacent uses, need for public or private water supply and
sanitary sewage disposal facilities, general layout, building site and
operation plans, ingress, egress, parking, loading and unloading, screening and
landscape plans pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   Permitted Principal Uses (see Section
35-230 for review requirements):
         Those Permitted Principal Uses set forth under Section
35-43 for the B-3 General Business District, except as limited below
         Lumber and Building Supply Stores
         Drive-in or drive-through restaurants or other establishments
providing service to customers without the necessity of entering the building
         Fast food stores and restaurants
         Fuel service stations, provided that all islands and pumps shall meet
the setback and yard requirements set forth herein
         Transit bus service
         Note: All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
         Note: All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state
trunk highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or
mapped centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use
Permits
      3.   Accessory and Other Uses:
         a.   Garages for storage of licensed vehicles in conjunction with the
operation of the business or for occupants of the business.
         b.   Off-street parking areas.
         c.   See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      4.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         Child care centers, provided that any outside play area is surrounded
by a security fence not exceeding a height of six feet and set back at least
five feet from any street right-of-way line with landscaping provided between
the fence and the street right-of-way line; and that no play area shall consist
of entirely a hard surface.
         Experimental, testing and research laboratories.
         Funeral homes, provided all principal structures and uses are not less
than 25 feet from any lot line
         General warehousing.
         Hobby Use, as that term is defined by the Internal Revenue Service,
provided that sales made from the site shall be limited to those occasional
sales as allowed during the conditional use permitting process.
         Light manufacturing, of a limited nature and size, that is found by
the Plan Commission not to be detrimental to the neighborhood and will not emit
noise, smoke, dust, dirt, odorous or noxious gases.
         Printing and publishing houses and related activities.
         Storage / Warehouse, provided that storage of hazardous materials,
including but not limited to explosive, flammable or combustible solid, liquid
or gas, radioactive material, etiological (disease causing) agents, or any
solid, liquid or gas creating a hazard, potential hazard, or public nuisance,
or any solid, liquid or gas having a deleterious effect on the environment
shall not be allowed.
         Truck and Bus Terminals for the parking, repair and service of the
vehicles, provided no trans- shipment or warehousing facilities are provided.
   B.   Lot, Area and Width Requirements.
 
                Width    Minimum 200 feet
Lot                       
                Area        Minimum two acres
                             
                Height   Maximum 35 feet
                 
Building                    Minimum
                Area        1,200 sq. ft. single story
                            1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street      Minimum 55 ft.
                 
Yard (Setbacks) Side        Minimum 30 feet, or equal to the required sideyard
                           in the adjacent district, whichever is greater
                Rear        Minimum 30 feet
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-45 B-5 Planned Business District
   The B-5 Planned Business District is intended to provide for the orderly and
attractive grouping of buildings which encompass more than one type of non-
industrial business use which are compatible from a traffic, density and
general use standpoint.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-5 Planned Business District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Special Regulations. To encourage a business use environment that is
compatible with the residential character of the Village, zoning permits for
uses in B-5 Planned Business District shall not be issued without prior review
by and approval of the Village Plan Commission. Said review and approval shall
be concerned with adjacent uses, need for public or private water supply and
sanitary sewage disposal facilities, general layout, building site and
operation plans, ingress, egress, parking, loading and unloading, screening and
landscape plans pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   Site Development. If the development is proposed to be completed in
phases or divided into saleable parcels, the owner/developer of each phase or
separate parcel will be required to submit, and receive approval of a detailed
site and operations plan as set forth in Section
35-230 of this Chapter.
      3.   Any division of the overall development parcel shall be accomplished
in accordance with Chapter 30, Land Division, of this Municipal Code, and
review and approval of the Plan Commission per the Design Standards specified
in Section
35-22 of this Chapter.
      4.   Permitted Principal Uses:
         Those Permitted Principal Uses set forth under s.
35-44 for the B-4 Highway Business District
         Note: All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
         Note: All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state
trunk highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or
mapped centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use
Permits
      5.   Accessory Uses:
         a.   Garages for storage of vehicles in conjunction with the operation
of a permitted use.
         b.   Off-street parking areas. Off street parking and loading space
adequate to meet the initial and projected needs of the principal use shall be
provided for individual lot development within the development. No loading or
unloading will be allowed on the streets or access ways within the parcel or on
adjacent streets, roads or highways. See the parking requirements in Sections
35-160 through
162 of this Chapter.
         c.   See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      6.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         Uses as set forth in s.
35-100E.
         The conditional uses set forth in s.
35-44, B-4 Highway Business District
         Animal Hospitals provided the lot area is not less than three acres,
and all principal structures and uses are not less than 100 feet from any
residential district.
         Drive-in establishments serving food or beverages for consumption
outside the structure.
         Flea markets.
         Funeral homes, provided all principal structures and uses are not less
than 25 fee from any lot line.
         Motels.
         Self-service storage facilities including incidental manager’s office/
quarters. The maximum lot coverage by structures for a self-service storage
facility, shall not exceed 50 percent, and such facility shall not exceed 15
feet in height, and shall meet the required setbacks.
         Off season boat storage facilities for boats and other recreational
vehicles, such as campers, travel trailers, snowmobiles, off-road vehicles and
motor homes, however, this is allowed only as an accessory use to an approved
self-service storage facility.
   B. Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 200 ft.
Lot                        
                Area      Minimum 87,120 sq. ft. (2 acres)
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 ft.
                           
Building                  Minimum
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. single story
                          1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street    Minimum 55 ft.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 30 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 30 ft.
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2020-4, passed 10-12-2020)
35-46. B-6 Water-Oriented Business District
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-6 Water-Oriented Business District are allowed and/
or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
         Bathing and fishing areas
         Bait shops
         Boat launching areas
         Fishing equipment sales
         Restaurants and taverns without outside facilities
         Water oriented commercial uses in existence on the day of the adoption
of this Chapter, such as bathhouses, boat and marine sales, boat liveries, boat
storage, repair and service marinas, dance halls, motels, resorts, and
restaurants and taverns with outside facilities are grandfathered; any
extension or expansion of these uses requires a Conditional Use Permit.
         Note: All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
         Note: All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state
trunk highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or
mapped centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use
Permits
      2.   Accessory Uses. See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         New, extended or expanded water oriented commercial uses, not listed
as permitted uses, such as bathhouses, boat and marine sales, boat liveries,
boat storage, repair and service marinas, dance halls, motels, resorts, and
restaurants and taverns with outside facilities
   B.   Area Requirements.
 
                Width  Minimum 150 feet
Lot                     
                Area      Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                           
                Height  Maximum 35 feet
                           
Building                  Minimum
                Area      1,200 sq. ft. single story;
                          1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street    Minimum 50 ft.
                           
Yard (Setbacks) Side      Minimum 50 ft.
                           
                Rear      Minimum 75 ft.
                           
 
35-47 B-7 Mixed-Business Use District.
The B-7 Mixed-Use Zoning District is intended to provide areas for commercial
uses along major streets and highways in the Village for the convenience of
travelers, tourists, and the residents of Rochester. The District is intended
to provide for a full range of commercial uses to be located on sites with
immediate access to arterial or collector streets and on sites where sanitary
sewer is or may be available to serve commercial uses that benefit from this
infrastructure. It is also the intent of the District to allow the continuation
of existing residential uses in the District, while allowing the sensitive
conversion of residential parcels to appropriate commercial uses that can
benefit from the District's proximity to arterial or collector streets.
Commercial uses in the District are not intended to weaken the commercial
vitality of the Central Business District. It is also the intent of this
District to conditionally allow multi-family residential and compatible
industrial uses.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the B-7 Mixed-Use District are allowed and/or limited as
set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal Code.
      1.   Special Regulations. To encourage a mixed use environment that is
well-planned and compatible with the surrounding uses in the Village, zoning
permits for permitted uses in the B-7 Mixed-Use District shall not be issued
until a general development master plan and associated timeline for project
phasing is prepared, as well as a detailed site plan for phases planned for
immediate construction, to be submitted to the Village Plan Commission for
review and approval in accordance with s.
35-22 and s.
35-230 of this Chapter. Said review and approval shall be concerned with
adjacent uses, need for public or private water supply and sanitary sewerage
disposal facilities, general layout, building site and operation plans,
ingress, egress, parking, loading and unloading, screening and landscape plans
pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   Any division of the overall development parcel or condominium shall
be accomplished in accordance with Chapter 40, Land Division, of this Municipal
Code, and be reviewed and approved by the Plan Commission per the Design
Standards specified in s.
35-22 of this Chapter.
      3.   Permitted Principal Uses. The following uses are permitted in the
Mixed-Use District (not an all-inclusive list:
         a.   Residential uses:
            (1)   Residential uses in existence prior to the adoption of this
Section.
            (2)   Dwelling combined with a permitted use.
         b.   Commercial uses:
            (1)   Assisted living facilities
            (2)   Clinic, medical, or dental facilities
            (3)   Financial and lending institutions
            (4)   Fuel service stations
            (5)   Hotels
            (6)   Medical services
            (7)   Offices
            (8)   Personal services
            (9)   Professional services
            (10)   Public uses
            (11)   Retail
            (12)   Restaurants
            (13)   Other similar uses as determined by the Plan Commission.
      4.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
         a.   Garages for storage of vehicles in conjunction with the operation
of a permitted use.
         b.   Off-street parking areas. Off-street parking and loading space
adequate to meet the initial and projected needs of the principal use shall be
provided by individual lot development within the development. No loading or
unloading will be allowed on the streets or access ways within the parcel or on
adjacent streets, roads or highways. See the parking requirements in s. 35-160
through s. 35-162 of this Chapter.
         c.   See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      5.   Conditional Uses:
         a.   Two-family and multiple-family dwellings with a density of two to
eight units per structure on lots served by public sanitary sewer.
         b.   Light manufacturing, of a limited nature and size, that is found
by the Plan Commission not to be detrimental to the neighborhood and will not
emit noise, smoke, dust, dirt, odorous, or noxious gases.
         c.   Service and sales establishments for automobiles.
   B.   Lot Area and Width Requirements.
 
Lot             Width  Minimum 200 ft.
                Area   Minimum 87,120 sq. ft. (2 acres)
                Height Maximum 35 ft.
Building               Minimum
                Area   1,200 sq. ft. single story
                       1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                Street Minimum 50 ft.
Yard (Setbacks) Side   Minimum 30 ft.
                Rear   Minimum 30 ft.
 
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 10-12-2020)
35-48 to 35-50 [Reserved for Future Use]
35-51 M-1 Limited Industrial District
   A.   Uses. The following uses are allowed and/or limited in the M-1 Limited
Industrial Zoning District, provided that the Village Plan Commission, in
approving or disapproving proposed locations for uses under this subsection,
shall give due consideration to the character and suitability for development
of the neighborhood in which any such use is proposed to be located and shall
also base its decision on such evidence as may be presented to the Plan
Commission regarding thee attributes of the proposed use, such as increased
traffic on the public streets, heavy vehicular traffic, and the emission of
noise, smoke, dust, or dirt, odorous or noxious gases and the like, that would
be detrimental to such character and such suitability for development.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses
      Apparel and findings products
      Baked goods, bakeries (wholesale)
      Blank Books, loose leaf binders and devices
      Books: publishing, printing, and binding
      Boot and shoe cut stock
      Brooms and brushes
      Dental equipment and supplies
      Electrotyping and stereo-typing
      Electrical appliances manufacturing
      Engineering, laboratory and scientific and research instruments and
associated equipment
      Envelopes and Greeting cards
      Mechanical measuring and controlling instruments
      Morticians’ goods
      Musical instruments and parts
      Ophthalmic goods
      Optical instruments and lenses
      Orthopedic, prosthetic, and surgical appliances and supplies
      Pens, pencils and other office and artist materials
      Photoengraving instruments and apparatus
      Photographic equipment and supplies
      Pleating, decorative and novelty stitching and tucking for the trade
      Signs and advertising displays
      Surgical and medical instruments and apparatus
      Watches, clocks, clockwork-operated devices and parts
      Yarns and threads
      Other uses similar to or customary incidental to any such use
      All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits
      2.   Accessory Uses:
      Garages for storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the operation of
the industry.
      Off-street parking and loading areas
      Office, storage, power supply and other uses normally auxiliary to the
principal industrial operation.
      See s.
35-21 of this Chapter
      3.   Conditional uses. See s.
35-100.
      Adult Oriented Entertainment Business (see specific provisions in s.
35-100).
      Bus and rail depots
      Experimental and research laboratories
      Office use not related to principal industrial operations
      Veterinary clinic, provided no service, including the boarding of
animals, is offered outside of an enclosed building
      Recycling center, provided no chemicals or hazardous materials are
collected, stored, or processed and all storage and processing operations are
conducted in an enclosed building
      Construction services, including general building contractors, carpentry,
wood flooring, concrete services, masonry, stonework, tile setting, plastering
services and roofing, sheet metal services and water well drilling services
      Indoor skating parks. Issues that the Plan Commission should consider are
as follows, but are not limited to:
         a.   The use shall be housed completely indoors
         b.   Outdoor skating and or bicycling on the premises shall not be
allowed
         c.   No outdoor storage is permitted, and all skates, bicycles, and
equipment used in the operation of said use shall be stored indoors
         d.   All trash and debris shall be removed or contained weekly
         e.   Any repair of skates, bicycles, and equipment used in the
operation of said use shall be done indoors
         f.   The indoor skate park conditional use permit shall be reviewed by
the Village Plan Commission one year after issuance to assure compliance with
the conditions stated in the conditional use permit
      Vocational schools, including data processing, business and secretarial
schools, provided that adequate off-street parking is provided as determined by
the Plan Commission
      4.   Site Plans. Every builder of any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered for manufacturing uses shall, before a zoning permit is
issued, present detailed site plans pertaining to the proposed structure to the
Village Plan Commission, which will approve said plans only after determining
that the proposed building will not impair an adequate supply of light or air
to adjacent property or substantially increase the danger of fire or traffic
congestion or otherwise endanger the public health or safety or substantially
diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements.
 
                          Minimum 120 feet (sewered)
                Width  Minimum 150 feet (unsewered)
Lot                     
                          Minimum 18,000 sq. ft.(sewered)
                Area      Minimum 40,000 sq. ft. (Unsewered)
                           
Building        Height  Maximum 35 feet
                           
                Street    Minimum 25 ft.
                           
                          Minimum 20 feet with no buildings, structure,
                Side      stockpile or equipment storage being located within
Yard (Setbacks)           50 feet of any residential district property line.
                           
                          Minimum 25 feet with no building, structure,
                Rear      stockpile or equipment storage being located within
                          50 feet of any residential district property line.
                           
 
   C.   Lighting Plans and Standards. Exterior lighting standards must be met
and submission of a lighting plan is required. Exterior lighting plans are
required for new development or redevelopment of existing exterior lighting in
the M-1 Limited Industrial District. At the time any exterior light is
installed or substantially modified in the M-1 District, and whenever a zoning
permit application is required for new development or redevelopment, an
exterior lighting plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission in order to
determine whether the requirements of this subsection have been met and that
adjoining property will not be adversely impacted by the proposed lighting.
      1.   A lighting plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of this
subsection shall have, at a minimum, the following elements:
         a.   A catalog page, cut sheet, or photograph of the luminaire,
including the mounting method, a graphic depiction of the luminaire lamp (or
bulb) concealment, and graphic depiction of light cutoff angles.
         b.   A photometric data test report of the proposed luminaire
graphically showing the lighting distribution in all angles vertically and
horizontally around the luminaire.
         c.   A plot plan, drawn to a recognized engineering or architectural
scale, indicating the location of the luminaire(s) proposed, mounting and/or
installation height in feet, the overall illumination levels (in footcandles)
and lighting uniformities on the site, and the illumination levels (in foot
candles) at the property boundary lines. This may be accomplished by means of
an isolux curve or computer printout projecting the illumination levels.
      2.   Exterior lighting in the M-1 District shall be limited to total-
cutoff-type luminaires (with angle greater than 90°). The maximum permitted
illumination shall be two foot candles and the maximum permitted luminaire
height shall be 30 feet as measured from surrounding grade to the bottom of the
luminaire. (Note: This standard does not address illumination levels or fixture
height which may be required by the Village of Rochester for the adequate
lighting of public street rights-of-way. It represents maximum illumination
levels on private property.)
      3.   For the purposes of this subsection, light shall be measured as
follows:
         a.   Metering equipment. Lighting levels shall be measured in foot
candles with a direct-reading, portable light meter. The meter shall be read
within an accuracy of plus or minus 5%. The meter shall have been tested,
calibrated, and certified by an independent commercial photometric laboratory
or the manufacturer within 30 days of its use.
         b.   Method of measurement. The meter sensor shall be mounted not more
than six inches above ground level in a horizontal position at the interior
line of the buffer yard or at the property line, as required herein. Readings
shall be taken only after the cell has been exposed long enough to provide a
constant reading. In order to eliminate the effects of moonlight and other
ambient light, measurements shall be made after dark with the light source in
question on, then with the same sources off. The differences between the two
readings shall be compared to the maximum permitted illumination allowed under
this subsection.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-52. M-2 General Industrial District
   A.   The following uses are allowed, limited and/or prohibited in the M-
2 General Industrial Zoning District, provided that the Village Plan
Commission, in approving or disapproving proposed locations for uses under this
subsection, shall give due consideration to the character and suitability for
development of the neighborhood in which any such use is proposed to be located
and shall also base its decision on such evidence as may be presented to the
Plan Commission regarding the attributes of the proposed use, such as increased
traffic on the public streets, heavy vehicular traffic, and the emission of
noise, smoke, dust, or dirt, odorous or noxious gases and the like, that would
be detrimental to such character and such suitability for development.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
      All Permitted Principal Uses in the M-1 Limited Industrial District (See
s.
35-51)
      Manufacturing, fabrication, packing, packaging, and assembly of products
from fur, glass, leather, metals, paper, plaster, plastic, textiles and wood
      Manufacturing, fabrication, packing, packaging, and assembly of candy and
confections products; canvas products; food products; cosmetics; curtains and
draperies; dress and work gloves; distributors; fabrics; felt goods; floor
coverings (limited to rugs and carpeting); food processing, except cabbage;
footwear; greenhouses (wholesale); handbags and other personal leathers; hats,
caps, and millinery; household furniture and furnishings; ice; knit goods;
leather fabrication, not including tanning; instruments; electrical appliances;
electronic devices; men, woman and youth clothing; lace goods; lamp shades;
luggage; laboratories; office furniture; paper coating and glazing; partitions,
shelving, lockers and office and store fixtures; instruments; jewelry;
pharmaceuticals; sanitary paper products; silverware and plated ware; tire cord
and fabric; toys; tobacco and toiletries; umbrellas; venetian blinds and
shades; wallpaper products; warehousing; waterproof garments; and yarns and
threads
      Manufacturing and bottling of nonalcoholic beverages
      Painting
      Printing, publishing binding of books, periodicals, and newspapers
      Contractors offices and warehouses
      Machine shops
      Millwork
      Light metal fabrication and die casting
      All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits
      2.   Accessory Uses:
      Garages for storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the operation of
the industry
      On site parking and loading areas
      Office, storage, power supply and other uses normally auxiliary to the
principal industrial operation
      See also s.
35-21 of this Chapter
      3.   Conditional uses:
      All Conditional Uses in the M-1 District (except as permitted herein)
      Animal hospitals provided the lot area is not less than three acres, and
all principal structures and uses are not less than 100 feet from any
residential district
      Metal stamping use not to exceed 5000 square feet in building area
      Commercial service facilities, such as restaurants and fueling stations
provided all such services are oriented toward industrial district users and
employees and other users are only incidental customers
      Recycling drop-off sites
      Self-service storage facilities including incidental manager’s office/
quarters. The maximum lot coverage by structures for a self-service storage
facility, shall not exceed 50 percent, and such facility shall not exceed 15
feet in height, and shall meet the required setbacks
      Transmitting towers; receiving towers; relay and microwave towers without
broadcast faculties or studios; and wireless communications towers, antennas
and associated accessory structures and facilities
      See also Section
35-100, Conditional Uses, and Section
35-230, Plan Commission Approval.
      4.   Prohibited Uses. Outside storage is prohibited in the M-2 Zoning
District.
      5.   Site Plans. Every builder of any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered for manufacturing uses shall, before a zoning permit is
issued, present detailed site plans pertaining to the proposed structure to the
Village Plan Commission, which will approve said plans only after determining
that the proposed building will not impair an adequate supply of light or air
to adjacent property or substantially increase the danger of fire or traffic
congestion or otherwise endanger the public health or safety or substantially
diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood. See also Section
13, Plan Commission Approval.
   B.   Area Requirements.
Lot             Width  Minimum 150 feet
                Area   Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
Building        Height Maximum 35 ft.
Yard (Setbacks) Street Minimum 50 feet
 
                Side   Minimum 20 feet
                Rear   Minimum 25 feet
 
   C.   Lighting Plans and Standards. Exterior lighting standards must be met
and submission of a lighting plan is required. Exterior lighting plans are
required for new development or redevelopment of existing exterior lighting in
the M-2 General Industrial District. At the time any exterior light is
installed or substantially modified in the M-2 District, and whenever a zoning
permit application is required for new development or redevelopment, an
exterior lighting plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission in order to
determine whether the requirements of this subsection have been met and that
adjoining property will not be adversely impacted by the proposed lighting.
      1.   A lighting plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of this
subsection shall have, at a minimum, the following elements:
         a.   A catalog page, cut sheet, or photograph of the luminaire,
including the mounting method, a graphic depiction of the luminaire lamp (or
bulb) concealment, and graphic depiction of light cutoff angles.
         b.   A photometric data test report of the proposed luminaire
graphically showing the lighting distribution in all angles vertically and
horizontally around the luminaire.
         c.   A plot plan, drawn to a recognized engineering or architectural
scale, indicating the location of the luminaire(s) proposed, mounting and/or
installation height in feet, the overall illumination levels (in footcandles)
and lighting uniformities on the site, and the illumination levels (in foot
candles) at the property boundary lines. This may be accomplished by means of
an isolux curve or computer printout projecting the illumination levels.
      2.   Exterior lighting in the M-2 District shall be limited to total-
cutoff-type luminaires (with angle greater than 90°). The maximum permitted
illumination shall be two foot candles and the maximum permitted luminaire
height shall be 30 feet as measured from surrounding grade to the bottom of the
luminaire. (Note: This standard does not address illumination levels or fixture
height which may be required by the Village of Rochester for the adequate
lighting of public street rights-of-way. It represents maximum illumination
levels on private property.)
      3.   For the purposes of this subsection, light shall be measured as
follows:
         a.   Metering equipment. Lighting levels shall be measured in foot
candles with a direct-reading, portable light meter. The meter shall be read
within an accuracy of plus or minus 5%. The meter shall have been tested,
calibrated, and certified by an independent commercial photometric laboratory
or the manufacturer within 30 days of its use.
         b.   Method of measurement. The meter sensor shall be mounted not more
than six inches above ground level in a horizontal position at the interior
line of the buffer yard or at the property line, as required herein. Readings
shall be taken only after the cell has been exposed long enough to provide a
constant reading. In order to eliminate the effects of moonlight and other
ambient light, measurements shall be made after dark with the light source in
question on, then with the same sources off. The differences between the two
readings shall be compared to the maximum permitted illumination allowed under
this subsection.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-53. M-3 Heavy Industrial District
   A.   Uses. Uses in the M-3 Heavy Industrial District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
      All permitted principal uses in the M-1 and M-2 Districts (see ss.
35-51 and
35-52)
      Manufacturing and processing of abrasives, bedding, candles, carpeting,
celluloid, coffee, cordage, glucose, food products, hair products, ice, ink,
linoleum, cloth, perfume, plaster of paris, rope, shoddy, starch, and textiles
      Manufacturing, processing, and storage of building materials, dry ice,
flues, and grains
      Manufacturing and bottling of alcoholic beverages; bag cleaning, cold
storage warehouses; electric and steam generating plants; lithographing; and
weaving provided such uses shall be at least 600 feet from residential and
public and semi-public uses
      Outside storage and manufacturing areas
      Inside storage warehouses
      Farm machinery sales and repair
      Vehicle upholstery, body and repair
      All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits
      2.   Accessory uses:
      Garages for storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the operation of
the industry
      On-site street parking and loading areas
      Office, storage, power supply and other uses normally auxiliary to the
principal industrial operation
      Uses customarily to a permitted use
      See s.
35-21 of this Chapter
      3.   Conditional uses:
      Manufacturing and processing of acetylene, acid, alkalies, ammonia,
asbestos, asphalt, batteries, bleach, bone, cabbage, cement, charcoal,
chemicals, chlorine, coal tar, coke, creosote, disinfectant, dye, excelsior,
farm machinery, fuel, gypsum, insecticide, lampblack, matches, oil, paint,
plastics, poison, polish, potash, pulp, pyroxylin, radium, rubber, stove
polish, and varnish.
      Manufacturing, processing, and storage of explosives, fat, fertilizer,
flammables, gasoline, grease, lard, plastics, radioactive materials, shellac,
soap, turpentine.
      Canneries, electroplating, enameling; forges, foundries, garbage
incinerators, lacquering, processing of offal, rubbish or animal reduction,
oil, coal, and bone distillation, refineries, road test facilities,
slaughterhouses, smelting, stockyards and tanneries provided such uses shall be
at least 600 feet from residential and public and semi-public uses.
      Freight Yards.
      Freight Terminals and trans-shipment depots.
      Breweries.
      Crematories.
      Food lockers and plants.
      All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits
      All conditional uses in the M-1 and M-2 Districts, unless made a
permitted use herein
      Animal hospitals provided the lot area is not less than three acres, and
all principal structures and uses are not less than 100 feet from any
residential district.
      Solid waste facilities as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 289.01(35), including
facilities for solid waste treatment, solid waste storage or solid waste
disposal, sanitary landfills, dumps, land disposal sites, incinerators,
transfer stations, storage facilities, collection and transportation services
and processing, treatment and recovery facilities, including the land where the
facility is located, when operated pursuant to a license issued by the State
and in accordance with applicable statutes and administrative codes, and
provided no chemicals or hazardous materials are collected, stored, or
processed. When the provisions of this Chapter conflict with state or federal
law, the state or federal law prevails.
      Facilities for the processing of scrap iron, steel or nonferrous metal
using large machines to produce a principal product of scrap metal for sale or
use for remelting purposes, provided that these uses shall be completely
surrounded by a solid fence or evergreen planting screen, preventing a view
from any other property or public right-of-way and shall be at least 600 feet
from any residential, business, agricultural, conservation, park, floodway,
shoreland-wetland, or shoreland district.
      Recycling facilities which use large machines to sort, grade, compact or
bale clean wastepaper, fibers or plastics, not mixed with other solid waste,
for sale or use for recycling purposes, provided no chemicals or hazardous
materials are collected, stored, or processed and all storage and processing
and operations are conducted in an enclosed building.
      Auto junk yards and scrap metal salvage yards, provided that these uses
shall be completely surrounded by a solid fence or evergreen planting screen,
preventing a view from any other property or public right-of-way and shall be
at least 600 feet from any residential, business, agricultural, conservation,
park, floodway, shoreland-wetland, or shoreland district. Wis. Stat. s. 175.25
shall apply to these uses.
      Off-season storage facilities for boats and other recreational vehicles,
such as campers, travel trailers, snowmobiles, off-road vehicles and motor
homes.
      Fueling stations and restaurants oriented toward industrial district
users.
      Glass manufacturing.
      Recycling drop-off sites.
      Self-service storage facilities including incidental manager’s office/
quarters. The maximum lot coverage by structures for a self-service storage
facility shall not exceed 50 percent, and such facility shall not exceed 15
feet in height, and shall meet the required setbacks.
      PODS, garages & temporary portable storage containers.
      See also Section
35-100, Conditional Uses and Section
35-230, Plan Commission Approval.
      4.   Site Plans. Every builder of any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered for manufacturing uses shall, before a zoning permit is
issued, present detailed site plans pertaining to the proposed structure to the
Village Plan Commission, which will approve said plans only after determining
that the proposed building will not impair an adequate supply of light or air
to adjacent property or substantially increase the danger of fire or traffic
congestion or otherwise endanger the public health or safety or substantially
diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood. See also Section
35-230, Plan Commission Approval.
   B.   Area Requirements:
Lot             Width  Minimum 150 feet
                Area   Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
Building        Height Maximum 35 feet
Yard (Setbacks) Street Minimum 50 feet
 
                Side   Minimum 20 feet
                Rear   Minimum 25 feet
 
   C.   Lighting Plans and Standards. Exterior lighting standards must be met
and submission of a lighting plan is required. Exterior lighting plans are
required for new development or redevelopment of existing exterior lighting in
the M-3 Heavy Industrial District. At the time any exterior light is installed
or substantially modified in the M-3 District, and whenever a zoning permit
application is required for new development or redevelopment, an exterior
lighting plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission in order to determine
whether the requirements of this subsection have been met and that adjoining
property will not be adversely impacted by the proposed lighting.
      1.   A lighting plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of this
subsection shall have, at a minimum, the following elements:
         a.   A catalog page, cut sheet, or photograph of the luminaire,
including the mounting method, a graphic depiction of the luminaire lamp (or
bulb) concealment, and graphic depiction of light cutoff angles.
         b.   A photometric data test report of the proposed luminaire
graphically showing the lighting distribution in all angles vertically and
horizontally around the luminaire.
         c.   A plot plan, drawn to a recognized engineering or architectural
scale, indicating the location of the luminaire(s) proposed, mounting and/or
installation height in feet, the overall illumination levels (in foot candles)
and lighting uniformities on the site, and the illumination levels (in foot
candles) at the property boundary lines. This may be accomplished by means of
an isolux curve or computer printout projecting the illumination levels.
      2.   Exterior lighting in the M-3 District shall be limited to total-
cutoff-type luminaires (with angle greater than 90°). The maximum permitted
illumination shall be two foot candles and the maximum permitted luminaire
height shall be 30 feet as measured from surrounding grade to the bottom of the
luminaire. (Note: This standard does not address illumination levels or fixture
height which may be required by the Village of Rochester for the adequate
lighting of public street rights-of-way. It represents maximum illumination
levels on private property.)
      3.   For the purposes of this subsection, light shall be measured as
follows:
         a.   Metering equipment. Lighting levels shall be measured in foot
candles with a direct-reading, portable light meter. The meter shall be read
within an accuracy of plus or minus 5%. The meter shall have been tested,
calibrated, and certified by an independent commercial photometric laboratory
or the manufacturer within 30 days of its use.
         b.   Method of measurement. The meter sensor shall be mounted not more
than six inches above ground level in a horizontal position at the interior
line of the buffer yard or at the property line, as required herein. Readings
shall be taken only after the cell has been exposed long enough to provide a
constant reading. In order to eliminate the effects of moonlight and other
ambient light, measurements shall be made after dark with the light source in
question on, then with the same sources off. The differences between the two
readings shall be compared to the maximum permitted illumination allowed under
this subsection.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022)
35-54. M-4 Quarrying District
   The M-4 Quarrying District is intended to provide for the orderly
continuation or restoration of quarries or other extractive and related
operations existing on November 9, 2009 (the original date of enactment of this
ordinance), and to provide for the location in appropriate places of new
extractive operations that provide maximum protection to the natural
environment. This district further provides for the restoration of quarries in
a manner that will not deteriorate the natural environment.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the M-4 Quarrying District are allowed and/or limited as
set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
         Quarrying, mineral extraction operations, and concrete and concrete
products manufacturing that are in existence on the date of the enactment of
this ordinance. The manufacture of concrete and concrete products, including
concrete and asphalt batch plants, may occur on a parcel only during the
duration of the on-site mineral extraction activity. Any change in or expansion
of the use in existence on the date of the enactment of this ordinance shall
require application for, and approval of, a conditional use permit. Upon
expiration of a conditional use permit issued by Racine County prior to
consolidation of the Village and Town of Rochester, the provisions of
subsection B. shall apply.
         All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
         All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits
      2.   Accessory Uses.
         See section
35-21 of this Municipal Code.
      3.   Conditional Uses. See. s.
35-100.
         Existing quarrying, mineral extraction operations, concrete and
asphalt batch plants, and concrete and concrete products manufacturing upon
expiration of a Racine County Conditional Use Permit for said operation
         Extension of, expansion of, or changes to legally existing quarrying
or mineral extraction operations, concrete and asphalt batch plants, and/or
manufacture of concrete and concrete products
         New quarrying or mineral extraction operations. New manufacturing of
concrete and concrete products. The manufacture of concrete and concrete
products, including concrete and asphalt batch plants, may occur on a parcel
only during the duration of the on-site quarrying or mineral extraction
activity.
   B. Area Requirements.
 
                   Lots shall be not less than 80 feet in width for the first
         Width     100 feet from the public right of way
                    
Lot             Lots shall provide sufficient area for the principal
                   structure and its accessory structures, the extractive
         Area      industrial operation, off-street parking and loading, and
                   yards as required herein
                    
                   No structure, building, or parts of a building shall exceed
Building Height  45 feet in height above the original land elevation of the
                   parcel
                    
         The extractive operation shall be set back at least 200 feet from any
         public or private right-of-way and all exterior property lines.
         The uses accessory to the extractive operation such as offices,
         scales, parking areas, and stockpiles shall be located at least 100
         feet from any public or private right-of-way and all exterior property
         lines.
         When a quarrying or mineral extraction operation abuts another such
         operation, the 200 foot setback for each operation from their common
         lot line may be reduced to a zero lot line setback through Village
Yard     Plan Commission and Village Board approval of the reclamation plan(s)
         for both operations in order to establish a reasonable restoration of
         such operations.
         Any operation, accessory use, facility or equipment already in place
         on November 9, 2009 that has been approved by Racine County but that
         is in violation of this setback may remain in place, but may not be
         extended. If an accessory use, facility or equipment is moved, it must
         conform to the setback provided herein. If the operation, accessory
         use, facility or equipment is discontinued for a period of 12 months,
         any future use of the operation, accessory use, facility or equipment
         shall conform to this section.
 
35-55 to 35-60 [Reserved for Future Use]
35-61 A-1 General Farming District
   A.   Uses. Uses in the A-1 General Farming District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
         Apiculture
         Dairying
         Forestry
         Grazing, pasturage and paddocks
         Greenhouses, plant nurseries, floriculture
         Raising of hay, cash crop grain, mint, grass, seed crops, silage, tree
fruits, nuts and berries, and vegetables
         Livestock raising, including poultry, provided that new or expanded
livestock facilities with 500 or more animal units require a license and must
meet the requirements as set forth in
Chapter 39
         Orchards
         Paddocks and pasturage
         Stables
         Truck farming permitted in s.
35-64, A-4 Truck Farming District, subject to the size and height requirements
provided therein.
         Viticulture
      2.   Accessory Uses.
         Farm dwellings for those farm owners and laborers actually engaged in
a principal use and residential dwellings for the parents and children of the
farm owners are accessory uses to the farm operation but shall comply with all
the dwelling requirements of the A-2 General Farming and Residential District.
Such residential dwellings for parents and children are permitted as such a use
is in compliance with the adopted farmland preservation plan. A separate,
recorded lot shall be recorded for such dwellings.
         Existing dwellings not accessory to any farm operation and farm
dwellings remaining after consolidation of neighboring farms are permitted but
shall comply with all the provisions of the A-2 General Farming and Residential
District.
         Not more than one roadside stand on any one farm shall be permitted as
an accessory use.
         See also s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         Animal hospitals, provided the lot area is not less than three acres,
and all principal structures and uses are not less than 100 feet from any
residential district
         Commercial raising, training  6 , propagation, boarding or butchering
of animals not defined as livestock, including but not limited to dogs, mink,
rabbits, foxes, emus, ostriches, camels, alpacas and llamas
         Condenseries, creameries, pea vineries
         Grain elevators, commercial grain storage and seed operations, which
operate exclusive of any farm operation
         Migratory laborer’s housing
         Worm farms and sod farms.
         Airstrips and landing fields for the use of the property owner for
personal and farm related activities
   B.   Area Requirements
Lot (Farm)                      Width     Minimum 150 feet
                                         
                               Area      Minimum 35 Acres.
                                         
Building/Structure:                       
Dwelling                        Height    Maximum 50 feet
                                           
                                          Minimum
                               Area      1,200 sq. ft. single story;
                                          1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
                                           
Agricultural Structures such as           Maximum: Two times the distance from
barns, silos, sheds and storage Height  the nearest lot line
bins                                       
 
Yard (Setbacks)                 Street    Minimum 100 feet
                                           
                               Side      Minimum 100 feet
                                           
                               Rear      Minimum 100 feet
                                           
 
 
Notes
6 6 Amended June 8, 2015, Ordinance #2015-1
35-62 A-2 General Farming and Residential District
   A.   Uses. Uses in the A-1 General Farming and Residential District are
allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of
this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
         All permitted principal uses in the A-1 General Farming District.
         One and two family dwellings, whether or not such dwelling is
associated with farm operations.
          The principal structure shall be the residential structure, intended
to service the parcel on which such residence is located.
      2.   Accessory Uses.
         See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
         All conditional uses in the A-l General Farming District, unless the
use is a permitted use under subsection 1. or is revised below.
         The parking of school buses, semi-tractors and trailers or other
vehicles of a commercial nature provided all such uses are at least 600 feet
from any residential district and 100 feet from any other residence and
landscape screening to be determined on a site specific basis is in place. If
the vehicles are parked inside a structure, the above distance may be reduced.
Only one vehicle unit (school bus, semi-tractor and trailer, etc.) may be
allowed on a parcel land.
         Airstrips and landing fields for the use of the property owner for
personal and farm related activities.
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments.
         Cluster Residential Developments.
         Manufactured Home Communities as set forth in s.
35-100.
         Storage and maintenance of construction equipment and vehicles. The
storage area for all such equipment and vehicles shall be at least 600 feet
from Residential, Institutional Park, and Recreational Park districts.
         Off season storage facilities for boats and other recreational
vehicles, such as campers, travel trailers, snowmobiles, off-road vehicles and
motor homes. Such storage may not occur in a barn or other accessory building
that was constructed prior to January 1, 2000.
      Non-municipal, non-commercial off-road trails for off-road vehicles as
set forth in s.
35-100 .
      Non-Agricultural Businesses as set forth in s.
35-100 .
   B.   Area Requirements
                                 Width  Minimum 150 feet
Lot                                     Minimum:
                                 Area   Single Family, 40,000 sq. ft.
                                        Two Family, 80,000 sq. ft.
Building/Structure:
                                 Height Maximum 35 feet
Dwelling                                Minimum
                                 Area   1,200 sq. ft. single story;
                                        1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
Accessory Structures residential        Maximum: Two times the distance from
and farm (such as barns, silos,  Height the nearest lot line
sheds and storage bins)
                                 Street Minimum 75 feet
Yard (Setbacks)                  Side   Minimum 25 feet
                                 Rear   Minimum 25 feet
 
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-8, passed 6-12-2023)
35-63 A-3 General Farming District – Holding District
   The Village of Rochester Board of Trustees adopting this chapter find that
urbanization is taking place in certain areas of the Village at a rapid pace,
that scattered urbanization can greatly increase the public cost of installing
public facilities, such as sewers and schools required to service such growth,
and therefore that the public interest will be best served by channeling such
development to suitable Village area only at such time as it is economically
feasible to plan, budget, and commit to construction of the necessary
supporting public services and facilities. Consequently, some areas of
potential growth within the Village will be placed in the A-3 General Farming
District – Holding District, where non-agricultural development be deferred
until the Village Board determines that it is economically feasible to provide
public services and facilities for uses other than those permitted in the
Holding District. It is intended that the status of the Holding District will
be reviewed by the Village Plan Commission no less frequently than every five
years in order to determine whether in light of the foregoing general
standards, there should be a transfer of all or part of a Holding District to
some other use district. Any such review will consider the need for permitting
other uses on such land, the nature of the use or uses to be permitted and the
cost and availability of the public services and facilities which will be
necessitated by such new use or uses. 
   A.   Uses. Uses in the A-3 General Farming District – Holding District are
allowed and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of
this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
      All Permitted Principal Uses in the A-1 General Farming District. See s.
35-61.
      2.   Accessory Uses.
      See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses.
      All Conditional Uses in the A-1 General Farming District   
   B.   Area and Yard requirements.
      The lot, building and yard requirements in the A-3 General Farming
District – Holding District are the same as in A-1 General Farming District.
35-64. A-4 Truck Farming District.
   A.   Uses. Uses allowed in the A-4 Truck Farming District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
      Apiculture, floriculture, greenhouses, horticulture, nurseries, orchards,
viticulture
      Paddocks, raising of horses not to exceed three horses per five acres
      Raising of cash crops
      Truck farming
      Farm dwellings for those resident owners actually engaged in a principal
agricultural use
      Existing dwellings not accessory to any farm operation or dwellings
remaining after consolidation of neighboring farms are permitted but shall
comply with all provisions of the R-8 Suburban Residential District
      2.   Accessory Uses.
      Residential dwellings for laborers actually engaged in a principal
agricultural use are accessory uses in the farm operation but shall comply with
all provisions of the R-8 Suburban Residential District. See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      Not more than one roadside stand per farm shall be permitted as an
accessory use.
      3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100 of this Chapter
      Airstrips and landing fields for the use of the property owner for
personal and farm related activities
      Animal hospitals, provided the lot area is not less than three acres, and
all principal structures and uses are not less than 100 feet from any
residential district
      Creameries, condenseries, pea vineries
   B.   Area requirements
Lot (Farm)                      Width     Minimum 300 feet
                                         
                               Area      Minimum 10 acres
Building/Structure:                       
Dwelling                        Height    Maximum 35 feet
                                           
                                          Minimum
                               Area      1,200 sq. ft. single story;
                                          1,700 sq. ft. multiple story
Agricultural Structures such as           Maximum: Two times the distance from
barns, silos, sheds and storage Height  the nearest lot line
bins                                       
 
Yard (Setbacks)                 Street    Minimum 100 feet
                                           
                               Side      Minimum 100 feet
                                           
                               Rear      Minimum 100 feet
                                           
 
35-65 to 35-69 [Reserved for future use]
35-70 UR Urban Reserve District
   The purpose of the UR Urban Reserve District is to preserve the availability
of vacant and agricultural land for future urban expansion, and to prevent the
premature development of lands where urban public utilities are not presently
available. These lands are to be retained in a natural state or in agricultural
or specifically permitted residential uses pending the proper timing for the
economical provision of sewer, water, streets, parks, storm drainage and other
public utilities and services so that orderly development can occur. When such
services are available, the property should be rezoned to the appropriate
designation.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the UR Urban Reserve District are allowed and/or limited
as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
      Apiculture; floriculture; forestry; grazing; greenhouses; hay; orchards;
paddocks; pasturage; plant nurseries; raising of cash grain crops, mint, grass,
seed crops, silage, tree fruits, nuts and berries, and vegetables; stables;
truck farming; and viticulture.
      Livestock Facilities as defined in s.
39-3 of this Municipal Code in existence on the date of the adoption of this
Ordinance, but no new or expanded Livestock Facilities are allowed.
      Farm dwellings for those farm owners and laborers actually engaged in a
principal use and residential dwellings for the parents or children of the farm
owners are accessory uses to the farm operation but shall comply with all the
dwelling lot requirements set forth herein. A separate, recorded lot shall be
created for such dwellings. Existing dwellings not accessory to any farm
operation and farm dwellings remaining after consolidation of neighboring farms
are permitted but shall comply with all the provisions set forth herein.
      2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
      Agricultural structures such as barns, silos, sheds and storage bins
      Not more than one roadside stand on any one farm shall be permitted as an
accessory use.
      See also s.
35-21.
   3.   Conditional Uses. The following conditional uses shall be allowed in
the UR District, based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by this
Chapter of the Municipal Code.
      Commercial raising, propagation, boarding or butchering of foxes, mink,
and rabbits; commercial raising, propagation, or boarding of dogs and cats; pea
vineries; condenseries; creameries; grain elevators, commercial grain storage
and seed operations, which operate exclusive of any farm operation; airstrips
and landing fields for farm or personal use only; migratory laborers' housing;
worm farms and sod farming.
      Animal hospitals, provided the lot area is not less than three acres and
all principal structures and uses are not less than 100 feet from any
residential district.
      Utilities, provided that all principal structures and uses are not less
than 50 feet from any residential lot line.
   B.   Lot, Area and Yard Requirements. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in a UR District subject to the additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this Chapter:
Lot (Farm)                       Width     Minimum 150 feet
                                 Area      Minimum 35 acres
                                            
Lot (Residential)                Width     Minimum 150 feet
                                 Area      Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
Building/Structure:
Dwelling                         Height    Maximum 35 feet
                                            
                                           Minimum
                                 Area      1200 sq. ft. single story;
                                           1700 sq. ft. multiple story
                                            
Agricultural Structures such as            Maximum: Two times the distance from
barns, silos, sheds and storage  Height  the nearest lot line
bins                                        
 
Residential accessory structures Height    Maximum 17 feet
Yard (Setbacks),                 Street    Minimum 100 feet
Farm                                        
                                 Side      Minimum 100 feet
                                            
                                 Rear      Minimum 100 feet
                                            
Yard (Setbacks),                 Street    Minimum 75 feet
Residential                                 
                                 Side      Minimum 25 feet
                                            
                                 Rear      Minimum 25 feet
                                            
 
35-71. C-1 Resource Conservation District.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the C-1 Resource Conservation District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
      Fishing
      Flood overflow and floodwater storage
      Hunting
      Navigation
      Pedestrian and equestrian trails
      Preservation of scenic, historic and scientific areas
      Public fish hatcheries
      Soil and water conservation practices
      Sustained yield forestry
      Stream bank and lakeshore protection
      Water retention ponds
      Wildlife areas.
      2.   Accessory Uses.
      Structures Restricted. Structures are not permitted in the C-1 Resource
Conservation District, except accessory to the principal or conditional use. No
structure shall be placed closer than 50 feet to a lot line.
      See s.
35-21 of this Chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses.
      Boating drainageways
      Game farms
      Grazing
      Orchards
      Shooting preserves
      Swimming
      Truck farming
      Utilities
      Water measurement and water control facilities
      Wildcrop harvesting.
      The above uses shall not involve drainage; dumping; filling; tilling;
mineral, soil, or peat removal; or any other use that would substantially
disturb or impair the natural fauna, flora, watercourses, water regimen or
topography.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022)
35-72. C-2 Upland Resource Conservation District
   The primary purpose of this district is to preserve, protect, enhance, and
restore all significant woodlands, areas of rough topography, and related
scenic areas within the Village; and to provide for limited residential
development at the densities set forth below. Regulation of these areas will
serve to control erosion and sedimentation and will promote and maintain the
natural beauty of the Village, while seeking to assure the preservation and
protection of areas of significant topography, natural watersheds, ground and
surface water, potential recreation sites, wildlife habitat, and other natural
resource characteristics that contribute to the environmental quality of the
Village.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the C-2 Upland Resource Conservation District are allowed
and/or limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this
Municipal Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses.
      Single family dwellings at a density not to exceed one dwelling unit per
three acres
      Farming and related agricultural uses when conducted in accordance with
soil and water conservation service standards, except livestock facilities
exceeding 500 animal units
      Hunting and fishing
      Forest preservation; forest and game management
      Preservation of scenic, historic, and scientific areas
      Recreation areas
      Arboreta and botanical gardens
      2.   Accessory Uses.
      See section
35-21 of this Chapter, except as limited by this section.
      Gardening, tool, and storage sheds incidental to the residential use
      3.   Conditional Uses. See s.
35-100.
      Hunting and fishing clubs
      Recreation camps, public or private campgrounds
      General farming buildings, including barns, silos, sheds, and storage
bins
      Private garages and carports
      Cluster residential development
      Utilities.
   B.   Area Requirements.
Lot                               Width     Minimum 300 feet
                                  Area      Minimum 3 acres
                                             
Building/Structure:
Dwelling                          Height    Maximum 35 feet
                                             
                                            Minimum
                                  Area      1200 sq. ft. single story;
                                            1700 sq. ft. multiple story
Agricultural and other structures           Maximum: Two times the distance
                                 Height  from the nearest lot line
                                             
Residential accessory structures  Height    Maximum 15 feet
Yard (Setbacks)                   Street    Minimum 100 feet
                                             
                                  Side      Minimum 25 feet
                                             
                                  Rear      Minimum 100 feet
                                             
 
   C.   Limitations.
      a.   Tree Cutting and Shrubbery Clearing Limited
      Land lying within the C-2 Upland Resource Conversation District shall not
be clear cut of trees, shrubbery, or underbrush. No more than 20 percent of the
natural vegetation shall be removed from the parcel.
      Normal pruning, trimming and shearing of vegetation; removal of dead,
diseased, insect-infested vegetation; and silvicultural thinning conducted
under the recommendation of a forester, shall be exempted from this
restriction.
35-73 P-1 Institutional Park District
   The Public Facilities Districts are intended to accommodate a wide range of
public and quasi- public uses distributed throughout the community, such as
locations that support government, civic, cultural, recreational, health and
infrastructure, including but not limited to public and private educational
institutions, child care centers, transportation facilities, public buildings
and facilities, community and group meeting centers, fire stations, museums,
hospitals, cemeteries, libraries and similar compatible uses. These districts
also accommodate large scale public facilities such as sewerage treatment
plants.
   The Institutional Park district is intended to eliminate the ambiguity of
maintaining unrelated use districts, areas that are under public or public-
related ownership and where the use for the public or quasi-public purpose is
anticipated to be permanent.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the P-1 Institutional Park District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1. Permitted Principal Uses:
      Public or private schools, colleges, and universities, provided that the
lot area is not less than two acres
      Religious and charitable institutions
      Public recreational and community center buildings and grounds
      Public emergency shelters
      Churches, including residential quarters for clergy
      Nursing homes, assisted living facilities
      Libraries, museums, and art galleries
      Lodges (e.g. Moose Lodge, Knights of Columbus, Lions Club)
      Government buildings, post offices
      Public utility buildings and facilities
      2.   Permitted Accessory Uses:
      Garages for the storage of vehicles used in conjunction with the
operation of a permitted use
      Gift store operated in conjunction with a permitted use
      Service buildings and facilities normally accessory to the permitted
uses, including but not limited to residential quarters for caretakers
      Off street parking and loading areas associated with a permitted use
      Open space and recreational uses listed under s. 39-74.A.1 associated
with a permitted use
      See s.
35-21 of this Chapter
      3.   Conditional Uses. The following are conditional uses in the P-
1 District. See s.
35-100.
      Hospitals and Sanitariums
      Music halls
      Penal Institutions
      Cemeteries
      Crematories
      Police, Fire and Rescue Stations
      Recycling drop-off sites (municipally owned)
      Sewerage Treatment Plants
      Child Care Centers, providing that traffic is managed in a manner to
minimize danger to children
      Gift store operated in conjunction with a conditional use
      Clubs, fraternities, lodges, sororities, religious, and charitable
institutions where the principal use of the facility is to provide lodging and
meals to the members of the organization, provided that setbacks are met. This
provision is not intended to limit “community living arrangements” as defined
by statute.
      Service buildings and facilities normally accessory to the conditional
uses, including but not limited to residential quarters for caretakers
      Off street parking and loading areas associated with a conditional use
      Open space and recreational uses listed under 35-74.A.1. associated with
a conditional use
      Buildings and uses in existence on the date of the adoption of this
section that are conditional uses under the P-1 zoning shall be deemed to have
conditional use approval for the existing uses, which shall be documented by
the Zoning Administrator. The addition of a use or construction of an
additional building on the property shall require that the owner obtain
conditional use approval for the new use or building.
   B.   Area requirements
Lot             Width: Sewered           No Minimum, provided all setbacks are
                                         met
                Width: Unsewered         150 feet
                                          
                Area: Sewered            No Minimum, provided all setbacks are
                                         met
                Area: Unsewered          40,000 sq. feet
                                          
Building        Height (to peak of roof) Maximum 35 feet
Yard (Setbacks) Street                   Minimum 50 feet
 
                Side                     Minimum 50 feet
                Rear                     Minimum 50 feet
 
   C.   Multiple Buildings on a Lot. Notwithstanding s.
35-15, more than one main building may be present on a lot in the P-1 District,
provided, however, that the presence of more than one main building shall
transform a permitted use to a conditional use. The number of buildings and
their uses, the lot width and area, the minimum setbacks of all proposed
structures and uses from the property lines, the distances between the
buildings and the lighting and landscaping plans shall be established by the
Village Plan Commission. See s.
35-100.
   D.   Nonconforming Structures. See s.
35-200.
   E.   Exterior lighting standards and lighting plan required. Exterior
lighting plans shall be required for new development or redevelopment of
existing exterior lighting in the P-1 District. At the time any exterior light
is installed or substantially modified in a P-1 District, and whenever a zoning
permit application is made for new development or redevelopment, an exterior
lighting plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission in order to determine
whether the requirements of this subsection have been met and that adjoining
property will not be adversely impacted by the proposed lighting.
      1.   Exterior lighting in the P-1 District shall be limited to total-
cutoff-type luminaires (with angle greater than 90°). The maximum permitted
illumination shall be two footcandles and the maximum permitted luminaire
height shall be 30 feet as measured from surrounding grade to the bottom of the
luminaire. (Note: This standard does not address illumination levels or fixture
height which may be required by the Village of Rochester for the adequate
lighting of public street rights-of-way. It represents maximum illumination
levels on private property.)
      2.   Ball diamonds, playing fields, golf driving ranges, tennis courts,
and similar outdoor recreational facilities have unique requirements for
nighttime visibility and generally have limited hours of operation. These uses
(excluding their associated off-street parking lots) may be exempted by the
Plan Commission from the exterior lighting standards of this subsection if the
applicant can satisfy the Plan Commission, upon site plan and lighting plan
review, that the following requirements are met:
         a.    Any exterior light sources shall not exceed the maximum
permitted post height of 70 feet.
         b.   If the luminaire is shielded in either its orientation or by a
landscaped bufferyard to prevent light and glare spillover to adjacent
residential property(s) or residential zoning districts, then the luminaire may
exceed a total cut-off angle of 90°. The maximum permitted illumination at the
interior bufferyard line of all required bufferyards shall not exceed two
footcandles.
      3.   A lighting plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of this
subsection shall have, at a minimum, the following elements:
         a.   A catalog page, cut sheet, or photograph of the luminaire,
including the mounting method, a graphic depiction of the luminaire lamp (or
bulb) concealment, and graphic depiction of light cutoff angles.
         b.   A photometric data test report of the proposed luminaire
graphically showing the lighting distribution in all angles vertically and
horizontally around the luminaire.
         c.   A plot plan, drawn to a recognized engineering or architectural
scale, indicating the location of the luminaire(s) proposed, mounting and/or
installation height in feet, the overall illumination levels (in footcandles)
and lighting uniformities on the site, and the illumination levels (in
footcandles) at the property boundary lines. This may be accomplished by means
of an isolux curve or computer printout projecting the illumination levels.
      4.   For the purposes of this subsection, light shall be measured as
follows:
         a.   Metering equipment. Lighting levels shall be measured in
footcandles with a direct-reading, portable light meter. The meter shall be
read within an accuracy of plus or minus 5%. The meter shall have been tested,
calibrated, and certified by an independent commercial photometric laboratory
or the manufacturer within 30 days of its use.
         b.   Method of measurement. The meter sensor shall be mounted not more
than six inches above ground level in a horizontal position at the interior
line of the bufferyard or at the property line, as required herein. Readings
shall be taken only after the cell has been exposed long enough to provide a
constant reading. In order to eliminate the effects of moonlight and other
ambient light, measurements shall be made after dark with the light source in
question on, then with the same sources off. The differences between the two
readings shall be compared to the maximum permitted illumination allowed under
this subsection.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022)
35-74 P-2 Recreational Park District
   The P-2 Recreational District is intended to accommodate a wide range of
public and quasi- public recreational uses distributed throughout the
community.
   A.   Uses. Uses in the P-2 Recreational Park District are allowed and/or
limited as set forth below and in the referenced sections of this Municipal
Code.
      1.   Permitted Principal Uses:
      Public and private recreational uses, such as beaches, parks, arboretums,
bathing, boating, cycling, fishing, horseback riding, marinas, swimming,
skating, sledding, nature trails and hiking
      Golf courses and driving ranges (private & public), provided that the
facility is designed to prevent golf balls from leaving the site
      Conservatories
      Campgrounds
      Play grounds
      Driving ranges
      Polo and soccer fields
      Tennis courts
      Public swimming pools and bathhouses
      Botanical gardens
      Athletic fields
      Picnic areas
      Community centers
      Gymnasiums
      Sports clubs
      Public emergency shelters
      Picnic Areas (shelters, pavilions, gazebos)
      Community gardens
      2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
      Parking areas, service buildings and rest rooms associated with a
permitted use
      See s.
35-21 of this chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses. The following uses shall be conditional uses in
the P-2 District. See s.
35-100.
      Dog Parks
      Zoological gardens.
      Archery and fire arm ranges
      Stadiums
      Parking areas, service buildings and rest rooms associated with a
conditional use
      Buildings and uses in existence on the date of the adoption of this
section that are conditional uses under the P-2 zoning shall be deemed to have
conditional use approval for the existing uses, which shall be documented by
the Zoning Administrator. The addition of a use or construction of an
additional building on the property shall require that the owner obtain
conditional use approval for the new use or building.
   B.   Area requirements
Lot             Width: Sewered           No Minimum, provided all setbacks are
                                         met
                Width: Unsewered         150 feet
                                          
                Area: Sewered            No Minimum, provided all setbacks are
                                         met
                Area: Unsewered          40,000 sq. feet
                                          
Building        Height (to peak of roof) Maximum 35 feet
Yard (Setbacks) Street                   Minimum 40 feet
 
                Side                     Minimum 40 feet
                Rear                     Minimum 40 feet
 
   C.   Multiple Buildings on a Lot. Notwithstanding s.
35-15, more than one main building may be present on a lot in the P-2 District,
provided, however, that the presence of more than one main building shall
transform a permitted use to a conditional use. The number of buildings and
their uses, the lot width and area, the minimum setbacks of all proposed
structures and uses from the property lines, the distances between the
buildings and the lighting and landscaping plans shall be established by the
Village Plan Commission. See s.
35-100.
   D.   Nonconforming Structures. See s.
35-200.
   E.   Exterior lighting standards and lighting plan required.
      Exterior lighting plans shall be required for new development or
redevelopment of existing exterior lighting in the P-2 District. At the time
any exterior light is installed or substantially modified in a P-2 District,
and whenever a zoning permit application is made for new development or
redevelopment, an exterior lighting plan shall be submitted to the Plan
Commission in order to determine whether the requirements of this subsection
have been met and that adjoining property will not be adversely impacted by the
proposed lighting.
      1.   Exterior lighting in the P-2 District shall be limited to total-
cutoff-type luminaires (with angle greater than 90°). The maximum permitted
illumination shall be two footcandles and the maximum permitted luminaire
height shall be 30 feet as measured from surrounding grade to the bottom of the
luminaire. (Note: This standard does not address illumination levels or fixture
height which may be required by the Village of Rochester for the adequate
lighting of public street rights-of-way. It represents maximum illumination
levels on private property.)
      2.   Ball diamonds, playing fields, golf driving ranges, tennis courts,
and similar outdoor recreational facilities have unique requirements for
nighttime visibility and generally have limited hours of operation. These uses
(excluding their associated off-street parking lots) may be exempted by the
Plan Commission from the exterior lighting standards of this subsection if the
applicant can satisfy the Plan Commission, upon site plan and lighting plan
review, that the following requirements are met:
         a.    Any exterior light sources shall not exceed the maximum
permitted post height of 70 feet.
         b.   If the luminaire is shielded in either its orientation or by a
landscaped bufferyard to prevent light and glare spillover to adjacent
residential property(s) or residential zoning districts, then the luminaire may
exceed a total cut-off angle of 90°. The maximum permitted illumination at the
interior bufferyard line of all required bufferyards shall not exceed two
footcandles.
      3.   A lighting plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of this
subsection shall have, at a minimum, the following elements:
         a.   A catalog page, cut sheet, or photograph of the luminaire,
including the mounting method, a graphic depiction of the luminaire lamp (or
bulb) concealment, and graphic depiction of light cutoff angles.
         b.   A photometric data test report of the proposed luminaire
graphically showing the lighting distribution in all angles vertically and
horizontally around the luminaire.
         c.   A plot plan, drawn to a recognized engineering or architectural
scale, indicating the location of the luminaire(s) proposed, mounting and/or
installation height in feet, the overall illumination levels (in footcandles)
and lighting uniformities on the site, and the illumination levels (in
footcandles) at the property boundary lines. This may be accomplished by means
of an isolux curve or computer printout projecting the illumination levels.
      4.   For the purposes of this subsection, light shall be measured as
follows:
         a.   Metering equipment. Lighting levels shall be measured in
footcandles with a direct- reading, portable light meter. The meter shall be
read within an accuracy of plus or minus 5%. The meter shall have been tested,
calibrated, and certified by an independent commercial photometric laboratory
or the manufacturer within 30 days of its use.
         b.   Method of measurement. The meter sensor shall be mounted not more
than six inches above ground level in a horizontal position at the interior
line of the bufferyard or at the property line, as required herein. Readings
shall be taken only after the cell has been exposed long enough to provide a
constant reading. In order to eliminate the effects of moonlight and other
ambient light, measurements shall be made after dark with the light source in
question on, then with the same sources off. The differences between the two
readings shall be compared to the maximum permitted illumination allowed under
this subsection.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 6-6-2022)
35-75. F-1 Floodway District.
   The provisions of this Chapter apply along with the specific provisions set
forth in
Chapter 37.
35-76. GFP General Floodplain District.
   The provisions of this Chapter apply along with the specific provisions set
forth in
Chapter 37.
35-77. FFO Flood Fringe Overlay District.
   The provisions of this Chapter apply along with the specific provisions set
forth in
Chapter 37.
35-78 SW Shoreland-Wetland District.
   The provisions of this Chapter apply along with the specific provisions set
forth in
Chapter 36.
35-79 SD Shoreland District.
   The provisions of this Chapter apply along with the specific provisions set
forth in
Chapter 36.
35-80 [Reserved for Future Use.]
35-81 PUD Planned Unit Development Overlay District
   A.   Intent.
      The Planned Unit Development overlay district (hereinafter referred to as
PUD) is established to provide a voluntary regulatory framework designed to
encourage and promote improved environmental and aesthetic design in the
Village by allowing for greater freedom, imagination and flexibility in the
development of land while ensuring substantial compliance with the Village
Planning and Zoning Chapter and the general plan for community development. A
PUD provides for the superimposing of an approved plan for development on
property already designated as a basic zoning district identified in the
Planning and Zoning Chapter. PUD districts are approved specifically for the
development being proposed. If the development is not implemented within
twenty-four months of approval of the Specific Implementation Plan, the
property shall revert to its original zoning. The amount of implementation
progress required to prevent reversion to the original zoning shall be included
as part of the Specific Implementation Plan approval. Some specific purposes of
developments in the PUD are:
      1.   Residential Planned Developments. To offer recreational
opportunities close to home, to enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by
conservation of streams and local spots of natural beauty, to add to the sense
of spaciousness through the preservation of natural spaces, to counteract the
effects of urban monotony and congestion in the streets, to encourage
cooperative relationships between neighbors and participation by all age groups
in the use and care of local open space tracts in new residential subdivisions,
to promote harmonious architecture between adjacent dwellings or institutional
buildings, and to encourage the placement of structures in proper relationship
to the natural characteristics of the site.
      2.   Business or Commercial Planned Development. To promote the
cooperative development of business or commercial centers, each with adequate
off-street parking, to control access points on thoroughfares, to separate
pedestrians and automobile traffic, to aid in stabilizing property values, to
develop centers of size and location compatible with marked potential green
spaces and to encourage harmonious architecture between adjacent commercial
structures and between home and commercial structures.
      3.   Industrial/Manufacturing Planned Development. To promote the
establishment of industrial parks, to permit groups of industrial buildings
with integrated design and coordinated physical plan, to encourage recreational
facilities with industrial areas with landscaped green spaces.
   B.   Principal Uses.
      Principal uses are as follows: Other than the existing use, no use shall
be permitted in the Planned Unit Development Overlay District except in
conformity with an approved recorded Specific Implementation Plan adopted
pursuant to the provisions hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Minimum Area for PUD District.
      Each Planned Unit Development Overlay District shall have an area of at
least one and one half acres.
   D.   Lot size, floor area ratio, open space, signs and off-street parking.
      In the Planned Unit Development Overlay District there shall be no
predetermined specific lot area, lot width, height, floor area ratio, yard,
usable open space, sign and off-street parking requirements. Such requirements
are made a part of an approved recorded Specific Implementation Plan agreed
upon by the owner and the Village, and shall be construed with the recorded
plan itself, as a part of this Section.
   E.   Criteria for approval.
      As a basis for determining the acceptability of a Planned Unit
Development Overlay District application, the following criteria shall be
applied with specific consideration as to whether or not it is consistent with
the spirit and intent of this Section and has the potential for producing
significant community benefits in terms of environmental and aesthetic design.
      1.   Character and intensity of Land Use. In a Planned Unit Development
Overlay District the uses and their intensity, appearance and arrangement shall
be of a visual and operation character which:
         a.   Are compatible with the physical nature of the site of area;
         b.   Would produce an attractive environment of sustained aesthetic
desirability, economic stability and functional practicality compatible with
the General Development Plan;
         c.   Would not adversely affect the anticipated provision for school
or other municipal service unless jointly resolved; and
         d.   Would not create a traffic or parking demand incompatible with
existing or proposed facilities.
      2.   Economic Impact. A Planned Unit Development shall not adversely
affect the economic prosperity of the Village or of surrounding properties.
      3.   Preservation and Maintenance of Open Space. In a Planned Unit
Development Overlay District, adequate provisions for the improvement and
continuing preservation and maintenance of attractive open space shall be made.
      4.    8 Implementation Schedule. A PUD shall include suitable assurances
that each phase could be completed in a manner which would not result in an
adverse effect upon the community as a result of termination at any point in
the development. The implementation schedule shall designate to what extent the
development shall be implemented within a twenty- four month period of time of
approval of the implementation plan for the property. The PUD approval shall
expire five years after the date of the last approval if it has not been
completed and the land shall automatically revert back to its original zoning,
unless the Village Board grants an extension of the expiration date.
   F.   Procedure for rezoning as a Planned Unit Development Overlay District.
   The procedure for rezoning to a Planned Unit Development Overlay District
shall be as required for any other zoning district change in this Chapter,
except that in addition thereto the rezoning may only be considered in
conjunction with a development plan, and shall be subject to the following
additional requirements:
      1.   General Development Plan. The proponent of the zoning change shall
file the following with the Plan Commission:
         a.   A statement describing the general character of the intended
development;
         b.   An accurate map of the project area including its relationship to
surrounding properties and existing topography and key features;
         c.   A plan of the proposed project showing sufficient detail to make
the possible evaluation of the criteria for approval as set forth in subsection
E.of this Section; and
         d.   When requested, a general outline of intended organizational
structure related to property owners’ association, deed restrictions, and
private provision of common services, together with such other additional
relevant information as may be required by the Plan Commission.
      2.   Referral and Hearing.
         a.   Within sixty days after completion of the filing of the petition
for approval for a General Development Plan, the Plan Commission shall forward
the petition to the Village Board with recommendations that the plan is to be
approved as submitted, approved with modifications or conditions or
disapproved. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement.
         b.   Upon receipt of the recommendations, the Village Board shall
determine whether or not to initiate a proposed zoning change to establish the
proposed Planned Unit Development Overlay District and to schedule the public
hearing required by s.
35-220. If the Board fails to initiate such a change within sixty days, the
petitioner may file a petition directly with the Village Clerk.
         c.   Approval of the rezoning and related General Development Plan
shall establish the basic right of use for the area when in conformity with the
plan as approved, but such plan shall be conditioned upon approval of a
Specific Implementation Plan, and shall not make permissible any of the uses as
proposed until a Specific Implementation Plan is submitted and approved for all
or a portion of the General Development Plan. If the approved General
Development Plan is not recorded as approved within twelve months of the date
of approval by the Village Board the approval shall be null and void and a new
petition and approval process shall be required to obtain General Development
Plan approval.
   G.   Procedure for approval of Specific Implementation Plan. The Specific
Implementation Plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission.
      1.   Required information. The Specific Implementation Plan submitted
shall include the following detailed construction and engineering plans and
related detailed documents and schedules and all other information deemed
relevant by the Plan Commission, except when specific documents are waived by
such Commission:
         a.   An accurate map of the area covered by the plan including the
relationship to the total General Development Plan;
         b.   The pattern of public and private roads driveways, walkways, and
parking facilities;
         c.   Detailed lot layout and subdivision plat where required;
         d.   The arrangement of building groups, other than single-family
residences, and their architectural character;
         e.   Sanitary sewer and water mains;
         f.   Grading plan and storm drainage system;
         g.   The location and treatment of open space areas and recreational
or other specific amenities;
         h.   The location and description of any areas to be dedicated to the
public;
         i.   Landscape plan and plant list;
         j.   Proof of financing capability;
         k.   Analysis of economic impact upon the community;
         l.   A construction schedule indicating the approximate dates when
construction of the project can be expected to begin and be completed. The
construction schedule shall include a statement as to what extent the project
plan will be implemented within twenty four months of the time of the approval
of the Specific Implementation Plan;
         m.   Agreements, bylaws, provisions or covenants which govern the
organizational structure, use, maintenance and continued protection of the
development and any of its common services, common open areas or other
facilities.
      2.   Procedure for Approving Specific Implementation Plan.
         a.   Following a review of the Specific Implementation Plan, the Plan
Commission shall recommend to the Village Board that it be approved as
submitted, approved with modifications or conditions, or disapproved. The Plan
Commission or Village Board may require any reasonable condition or design
which will promote proper development or benefit to the community.
         b.   Upon receipt of the Plan Commission recommendation, the Board may
approve the Plan and authorize the development to proceed accordingly, or
disapprove the Plan and send it back with specific objections to the Plan
Commission for further negotiation with the developer.
         c.   In the event of approval of the Specific Implementation Plan, the
building, site and operational plans for the development, as approved, as well
as all other commitments and contractual agreements with the Village shall be
recorded by the developer within twelve months of the date of approval by the
Village Board in the Racine County register of deeds office. This recording
shall be accomplished prior to the issuance of any building permit. If the
Specific Implementation Plan is not recorded as approved within twelve months
of the date of approval by the Village Board the approval shall be null and
void, and a new petition and approval process shall be required to obtain
Specific Implementation Plan approval.
         d.   Any subsequent change or addition to the Plan or use shall first
be submitted for approval to the Plan Commission and if, in the opinion of the
Plan Commission, the change or addition constitutes a substantial alteration of
the original Plan, the procedure provided for in subsection F. of this Section
shall be required.
 
Notes
8 8 Amended 8-6-2018, Ordinance #2018-5
35-82 HPO Historic Preservation Overlay District.
   A.   Intent. The HPO Historic Preservation Overlay District is intended to
provide for the protection and preservation of those structures and areas whose
architectural, archeological or historic interests are valuable contributions
to the character and charm of the Village or areas of the Village and to the
Village's cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history or
heritage. Such structures and areas are hereby deemed to represent a community
asset justifying the public regulation of such structures and areas to ensure
their preservation. The intent of this district is to safeguard the Village's
historic and cultural heritage, as embodied and reflected in such structures or
areas, stabilize and improve property values, foster civic pride, enhance the
visual and aesthetic character of the Village, and protect and enhance the
Village's attractions to residents, tourists and visitors, and serve as a
support and stimulus to business and industry.
   B.   District Standards and Uses. District standards shall conform to those
required in the underlying basic zoning district. See also subsection D. of
this section. Permitted, accessory, and conditional uses shall be as allowed in
the underlying basic zoning district.
   C.   Designation / Creation of Historic Preservation Overlay District.
      1.   The Historic Preservation Committee shall select geographically
defined areas within the Village of Rochester to be designated Historic
Preservation Overlay Districts pursuant to
Chapter 38, Historic Preservation, of this Municipal Code. If a petition for
rezoning to an HPO District is received from a source other than the Historic
Preservation Committee, it shall be referred to the Committee for its review
and recommendation.
      2.   The Village Board may designate an area an HPO District upon
recommendation by the Plan Commission and the Historic Preservation Committee.
The public hearing to be held pursuant to
Chapter 38 shall be held jointly by the Plan Commission and the Historic
Preservation Committee, and notice of the hearing shall conform to the
requirements of both
Chapter 38 and the notice required in this Chapter.
      3.   The criteria for rezoning to an HPO District shall be based upon the
requirements found in
Chapter 38.
   D.   Limitation on Structural or Appearance Changes.
      1.   Certificate of Appropriateness Required. There shall be no
alterations in the architectural appearance of any structure within an HPO
District without the approval of plans for such alterations by the Historic
Preservation Committee and the Committee's grant of a Certificate of
Appropriateness pursuant to
Chapter 38 of this Municipal Code. For purposes of this section, alterations
shall include any exterior color change, addition to, or demolition of any part
or all of the exterior of a structure.
      2.   Repairs, Destruction and Reconstruction. Notwithstanding the
provisions of s.
35-200 of this Chapter as to non-conforming structures, total lifetime
structural repairs, restoration, or alterations of a preservation structure may
exceed 50 percent of the Village's equalized value of the structure if the
Historic Preservation Committee determines that the structure will be repaired,
restored, or altered in a way that maintains the character of the structure and
the character of the HPO District without significant alteration or change in
such character. No person in charge of an historic structure or improvement in
an HPO District shall demolish such a structure or improvement without a
Certificate of Appropriateness for the demolition. See, however,
Chapter 37 for historic structures located in floodplain districts.
      3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
35-200 of this Chapter as to non- conforming structures, the Historic
Preservation Committee may grant a Certificate of Appropriateness for, and may
recommend to the Plan Commission, that all or part of a structure which has
been destroyed or altered over the course of time may be rebuilt or
reconstructed to the structure's original footprint, inclusive of uncovered
porches, if such reconstruction or restoration is in keeping with the historic
significance of the structure and area, regardless of current setback, side
yard and rear yard requirements, so long as no safety issues (such as vision
clearance triangles) are implicated. An example of such a recommendation would
be the restoration of a porch to its original length and width, as proven by
photographic or other documented evidence, if such porch was removed in a
remodeling of the structure. The Plan Commission may approve such restoration
or reconstruction, and such approval shall not be considered a variance or
waiver but shall rather be considered to meet the appropriate standards of the
HPO District. See, however,
Chapter 37 for historic structures located in floodplain districts.
      4.   In the case of the destruction of a structure in the HPO District,
the Plan Commission may determine upon recommendation from the Historic
Preservation Committee that a replacement structure may be constructed in a
manner that, while not identical to the original structure, maintains the
historic character of the destroyed structure. See, however,
Chapter 37 for historic structures located in floodplain districts.
35-83 to 35-99 [Reserved for Future Use]
35-100 CONDITIONAL USES
   A.   Conditional Use Permits.
   The Village Plan Commission may authorize the Zoning Administrator to issue
a conditional use permit for conditional uses after review and a public
hearing, provided that such conditional uses and structures are in accordance
with the purpose and intent of this Chapter and are not found to be hazardous,
harmful, offensive, or otherwise adverse to the environment or the value of the
neighborhood or the community. Conditional uses in the floodplain districts
shall be required to meet the requirements in
Chapter 37.
   B.   Applications.
      Applications for conditional use permits shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following:
      1.   A site plan of the property accurately dimensioned showing the
location of all existing and proposed structures and use area showing
conformance with
35-22 B. “Site Planning and Design Principles”; s.
35-22 C. “Building, Design, Layout and Construction Principles”; and
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards.”
      2.   Name of project.
      3.   Owner's and/or developer's name, physical address, and email
address.
      4.   Architect and/or engineer's name, physical address, and email
address.
      5.   Date of plan submittal.
      6.   Existing topography shown at a contour interval not less than two
feet, or where not readily available elevations at appropriate locations.
      7.   Proposed changes in topography showing conformance with Ch. 32 Post
Construction Stormwater Management and Ponds; and Ch.
35-22 D. “Site-Planning and Design Principles”, subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping.”
      8.   The characteristics of soils related to contemplated uses.
      9.   The type, size, location, height, and dimensions of all structures
including fences and walls showing conformance with all provisions of the
underlying zoning district, such as lot width and area, setbacks, yards,
building heights, etc.; Ch. 35, s.
35-190 “Architectural Control”;
35-22 B. “Site Planning and Design Principles”; s.
35-22 C. “Building, Design, Layout and Construction Principles”; and
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”, subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping.”
      10.   Primary building materials used in construction of all structures
showing conformance with
Ch. 35, s.
35-190 “Architectural Control” and s.
35-22 “Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects,” subsection C. “Building, Design, Layout and Construction
Principles.”
      11.   Architectural plans, elevations, and perspective drawings and
sketches illustrating the design and character of proposed structures.
      12.   Location and number of parking stalls and loading and storage areas
showing conformance with
Ch. 35, s.
35-160 “Traffic, Parking & Access”; s.
35-161 “Parking Requirements”; s.
35-162 “Driveways”; and s.
35-22 “Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects”, subsection D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”,
subsection 4. “Parking area requirements.”
      13.   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, septic
tanks and disposal fields, holding tanks, storm sewers and water mains showing
conformance with
Ch. 10 “Public and Private Sewer Systems”;
Ch. 32 “Chapter 32 Post Construction Stormwater Management and Ponds”; and Ch.
35-15 “Site Restrictions” subsection F. regulating private well construction.
      14.   Location of proposed solid waste (refuse) and recycling storage
areas showing conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”, subsection 9. “Location and
Design of Loading Facilities and Waste Storage.”
      15.   Location of pedestrian sidewalks and walkways showing conformance
with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”, subsection 6. “Pedestrian
Flows.”
      16.   Existing and proposed public right-of-way widths for conformance
with Ch. 35, s. 35-160 “Traffic, Parking & Access”; and Ch. 30, s.
30-82 “Street Plans, Improvements and Standards.”
      17.   Location, type, height and intensity of proposed lighting showing
conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”, subsection 7. “Outdoor
Lighting.”
      18.   Location of existing trees and extent, and type of proposed
plantings including type and extent of erosion control showing conformance with
Ch. 32 “Chapter 32 Post Construction Stormwater Management and Ponds”; and
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Principles”, subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping.”
      19.   A graphic delineation of any planned development staging.
      20.   Any other site or use information, such as 100 year internal flood
lines, which will assist the Plan Commission in making a determination and
recommendation on the proposal. Conditional uses in the shoreland-wetland and
floodplain districts are required to submit plans showing conformance with
Ch. 36, “Shoreland-Wetland and Shoreland Zoning Districts” and
Ch. 37, “Floodplain Zoning.”
      21.   Operations plan data to be submitted with all plan review
applications shall include at least the following:
         a.   Specific use of site and building(s).
         b.   Hours of operations.
         c.   Number of full and part time employees.
         d.   Estimate of daily truck and auto trips to the site.
         e.   Type of materials and equipment to be stored on site.
         f.   Method of handling solid and liquid waste disposal.
         g.   Method of exterior maintenance (site and buildings).
         h.   Method of site and building security other than local police.
         i.   Copies of all special use permits issued by state or county
agencies.
         j.   Any other information which will assist the Plan Commission in
making a determination and recommendation of the proposal.
   C.   Review and Approval.
      1.   The Village Plan Commission shall review, and conditions may be
required, based on the intentions stated in Ch. 35, s.
35-3 “Intent,” Ch. 35 s.
35-22 “Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects;” and these additional criteria:
         a.   All provisions of the underlying zoning district, such as lot
width and area, yards, building heights;
         b.   Site and neighboring land and water uses for conformance with Ch.
35, s.
35-15 “Site Restrictions” and Ch. 35, s.
35-22 “Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects,” subsections B. and D. “Site Planning and Design
Principles”; and “Site Planning and Design Standards”;
         c.   Drainage and groundcover requirements for conformance with
Ch. 32 “Chapter 32 Post Construction Stormwater Management and Ponds”; and
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Principles”, subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping”;
         d.   Existing and proposed structures and architectural plans for
conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-190 “Architectural Control”, s.
35-22 C. “Building, Design, Layout and Construction Principles”, and s. 35-22
D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”;
         e.   Parking areas, driveway locations, highway access, traffic
generation and circulation for conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-160 “Traffic, Parking & Access”; s.
35-161 “Parking Requirements”; s.
35-162 “Driveways”; and s.
35-22 D.4. “Parking area requirements”;
         f.   Solid and liquid waste disposal plans for conformance with
Ch. 10 “Public and Private Sewer Systems”;
         g.   Private water supply systems for conformance with Ch.
35-15 “Site Restrictions” subsection F. regulating private well construction;
         h.   Waste storage area plans for conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. 9. “Location and Design of Loading Facilities and Waste Storage”;
         i.   The effect of the proposed use, structure, operation, and
improvement upon flood damage protection, water quality, shoreland cover,
natural beauty, and wildlife habitat for conformance with
Ch. 36 “Shoreland-Wetland and Shoreland Zoning Districts” and
Ch. 37, “Floodplain Zoning”;
         j.   Lighting plans for conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D.7. “Outdoor Lighting”;
         k   Pedestrian sidewalks and walkway plans for conformance with Ch.
35, s.
35-22 D.6. “Pedestrian Flows”;
         l.   Landscaping plans for conformance with and Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D.3. “Site Landscaping”;
         m.   Signage plans for conformance with Ch. 35, ss.
35-175 through
35-178 regulating the types, size and placement of signs within the Village;
         n   .Operations plan data for conformance with Ch. 335, s.
35-250 “Performance Standards”; and
         o.   All other applicable village, county, state regulations specific
to the proposed use.
      2.   Conditions such as landscaping, architectural design, type of
construction, construction commencement and completion dates, sureties,
lighting, fencing, location, size and number of signs, water supply and waste
disposal system, higher performance standards, street dedication, certified
survey maps, floodproofing, ground cover, diversions, silting basins, terraces,
stream bank protection, planting screens, operational control, hours of
operation, improved traffic circulation, deed restrictions, highway access
restrictions, increased yards, or additional parking may be required by the
Village Plan Commission upon its finding that these are necessary to fulfill
the purpose and intent of this Chapter and the Wisconsin Statutes. Compliance
with all other provisions of this Chapter, such as lot width and area, yards,
building height, parking, loading, traffic, highway access, aesthetic
evaluation and performance standards shall be required of all conditional uses.
      3.    1 The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing, giving a Class 2
notice therefor as set forth in s. 35-240. The Plan Commission shall approve
the conditional use permit and the conditions to be applied thereto, or shall
deny the permit as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(de), as follows:
         a.   If an applicant for a conditional use permit meets or agrees to
meet all of the requirements and conditions specified in the Code or those
imposed by the Plan Commission, the Plan Commission shall grant the conditional
use permit. Any condition imposed must be related to the purpose of the Code
and be based on substantial evidence.
         b.   The requirements and conditions described under subsection a.
must be reasonable and, to the extent practicable, measurable and may include
conditions such as the permit's duration, transfer, or renewal. The applicant
must demonstrate that the application and all requirements and conditions
established by the Plan Commission relating to the conditional use are or shall
be satisfied, both of which must be supported by substantial evidence. The Plan
Commission’s decision to approve or deny the permit must be supported by
substantial evidence, i.e., facts and information, other than merely personal
preferences or speculation, directly pertaining to the requirements and
conditions an applicant must meet to obtain a conditional use permit and that
reasonable persons would accept in support of a conclusion.
         c.   Once granted, a conditional use permit shall remain in effect as
long as the conditions upon which the permit was issued are followed, but the
Plan Commission may impose conditions such as the permit's duration, transfer,
or renewal, in addition to any other conditions specified in the Code or by the
Plan Commission.
         d.   If a person's conditional use permit application is denied, the
person may appeal the decision to the circuit court under the procedures
contained in Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(e) 10.
      4.   Variances shall only be granted as provided in Section
35-210 and other applicable chapters of this Municipal Code.
   D.   Residential Conditional Uses. The following residential and quasi-
residential uses shall be conditional uses and may be permitted as specified:
      1.   Cluster residential developments in the residential, A-2 and C-
2 districts shall be permitted as conditional uses. The district regulations
may be varied provided that the adequate open space shall be provided so that
the average intensity and density be no greater than one dwelling unit per
three acres. The original and all subsequent owners shall assure, by deed
restrictions enforceable by the Village, proper preservation, care and
maintenance of exteriors; designs; all common structures; facilities;
utilities; accesses; and open spaces.
Development                        Area   Minimum 20 acres
 
Lot                                Width  Minimum 150 feet
                                   Area   Minimum 40,000 sq. ft.
                                          Maximum 35 feet
Dwelling                           Height Minimum
                                   Area   1200 sq. ft. single story 1700 sq.
                                          ft. multiple story
Residential Accessory Structures   Height Maximum 15 feet
                                    
Agricultural Accessory Structures  Height Maximum two times the distance from
(barns, silos, sheds, storage bins        the nearest lot line
Yard (Setbacks)                    Street Minimum 50 feet
 
                                   Side   Minimum 15 feet
                                           
                                  Rear   Minimum 50 feet
 
      2.   Manufactured Homes.
         a.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings set forth in section
21-1 of this Municipal Code, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning: “Licensee,” “Community,” “Manufactured Home,” “Mobile Home,”
“Unit,” “Manufactured Home Community,” and “Site.”
         b.   When, Where Allowed.
            (1)   Manufactured Home Communities may be allowed as a conditional
use in the A-2 Agricultural District subject to the requirements of this
subsection and all provisions of this Chapter pertaining to conditional uses.
            (2)   No manufactured home shall be used as a residence within the
Village unless:
               (a)   It is located within a manufactured home community for
which a conditional use permit has been issued; or
               (b)   It is located on a farm and the occupants of the
manufactured home are the father, mother, son, daughter, brother or sister of
the farm owner or operator or where the occupants of the manufactured home
works on the farm and a conditional use permit has been issued. The individual
site, area and yard requirements of this section shall apply to manufactured
homes located on a farm; or
               (c)   It meets the requirements set forth in s.
35-15.I.5.b., or
               (d)   In the event a dwelling on real estate outside of a
manufactured home community was destroyed by fire or other casualty, the
dwelling is voluntarily removed by the owner of the dwelling, and the owner
desires to rebuild a home on the location of the home so destroyed or removed,
the owner may apply to the Plan Commission for a permit to temporarily keep a
manufactured home on the real estate for occupancy as a dwelling by persons who
had occupied the destroyed or removed dwelling. The permit may be granted by
the Plan Commission for a period not to exceed one year. The manufactured home
shall conform to all applicable requirements of this Municipal Code. In the
event a new dwelling cannot be completed within the initial permit period, the
owner may apply for and the Plan Commission may grant an extension of up to 90
days.
         c.   Application for Zoning Permit.
            (1)   An application for a conditional use permit for a
manufactured home community shall be accompanied by a license or application
for a license from the Village pursuant to Chapter 21 and application for plan
approval and a permit from the Wisconsin Department of Safety and Professional
Services pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 326. In the absence of a Village
license or State Permit, the application for a conditional use permit shall be
denied. The application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator along with
plans and specifications in compliance with the all Village ordinances and
state laws and a performance bond in the amount necessary to insure completion
of the manufactured home community within nine months from the date of the
issuance of the conditional use permit and insuring further that such
completion is in compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. No
manufactured home shall be occupied until all conditions of this Chapter have
been met.
            (2)   The construction or expansion of a manufactured home
community shall be completed within nine months, but the time may be extended
for not more than an additional 90 days in the aggregate by the Zoning
Administrator with the approval of the Plan Commission for good cause shown.
            (3)   The provisions of Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 326 are minimum
requirements enforced by the State. The local of this Chapter and Chapter 21
are in addition to the requirements set forth in Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 326
and where the provisions of this Municipal Code are more restrictive than the
state requirements, the provisions of this Municipal Code shall prevail.
            (4)   The application shall contain the following information:
               (a)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
               (b)   Legal description of the land upon which applicant seeks
to have a zoning permit for a manufactured home community;
               (c)   The names and addresses of all persons owning land
abutting upon such land; and
               (d)   The names and addresses of all persons owning lands
located across the street from such land.
               (e)   Copies of the plans submitted to the Wisconsin Department
of Safety and Professional Services required under Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS.
         d.   Location. No manufactured home shall be located less than 50 feet
from any highway right-of-way line. The location of each manufactured home
community shall be approved or denied in writing. In approving such location,
the Zoning Administrator shall view the proposed site or sites and shall
consider such evidence as may be presented, bearing upon the general purposes
and intent of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare and the specific purpose of this section to prevent the overcrowding of
land and the development of housing blight in rural areas.
         e.   Specific requirements.
            (1)   Drainage. Every manufactured home community and every
manufactured home within the community shall be located on a well-drained area
and shall be so graded and adequately drained to prevent the accumulation of
stormwater or other waters in the manufactured home community or on any site,
and drainage easements shall be obtained when necessary.
            (2)   Sewage. Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of
all sewage from a manufactured home community into a municipal sanitary sewer
where available, or by a properly constructed and maintained sewage system
approved by Racine County and the DNR.
            (3)   Water. Where a public water supply is not available within
the manufactured home community an adequate supply of pure water for drinking
and domestic purposes shall be provided in an amount sufficient to care for the
needs of the maximum number of persons which can be accommodated in such
manufactured home community, approved by the DNR.
            (4)   Refuse. Every manufactured home shall conform to the refuse
and recycling requirements of this Municipal Code. Refuse shall be disposed of
as often as necessary to prevent decomposition or overflow.
            (5)   Lighting. All entrances, exits, lanes, and driveways between
rows of manufactured homes used or occupied in any manufactured home community
shall be lighted by electric lighting of at least one watt per lineal foot.
         f.   Manufactured Home Sites and Automotive Vehicle Parking.
            (1)   Each manufactured home shall be located on a site of not less
than 6,000 square feet with a minimum width of 50 feet. Each double
manufactured home shall be located on a site of not less than 9,000 square feet
with a minimum width of 75 feet. If parking is not provided on the individual
site, but within a reasonable distance of the site, the square footage of the
site may be reduced by 400 square feet for a single manufactured home or 600
square feet for a double manufactured home.
            (2)   Each manufactured home site shall contain a pad upon which
the manufactured home shall be situated, which shall be paved with concrete or
bituminous material. Each pad shall not be less than ten feet wide nor of less
length than the length of the manufactured home to be parked thereon, plus five
feet.
            (3)   Off street parking spaces in a ratio of one and one-half for
each site shall be provided for and maintained in good condition. There shall
be off-street parking places for automotive vehicles within the community,
either on each site or located within a reasonable distance from each unit,
paved with concrete or bituminous material, equal to not less than 400 square
feet for each manufactured home site. Each automobile parking place shall not
be less than nine feet wide and 160 square feet in area, exclusive of
maneuvering and access space.
         g.   Streets and Sidewalks.
            (1)   Streets.
               (a)   In a manufactured home community there shall be a system
of private streets with a minimum of 66-foot dedicated widths.
               (b)   The private streets shall be paved with concrete or
bituminous material, providing access from each and every manufactured home
site and automotive parking space within the manufactured home community to the
public street or highway; provided that there shall not be more than two
entrances from or exits to the public street or highway from any one community.
The private street shall be paved to the following widths:
                  [1]   Parking one side or no street parking: 28 feet
                  [2]   Parking two sides: 32 feet.
            (2)   Sidewalks. If recreation buildings, laundry facilities, or
any other service areas are provided for the convenience of the manufactured
home community residents, there shall be sidewalks, with a minimum of 30-inch
widths, paved with concrete or bituminous material, from every manufactured
home site within the manufactured home community to the building, facility or
area.
         h.   Setbacks and Yards.
            (1)   Each manufactured home pad shall be separated from all other
manufactured home pads, automobile parking spaces or service buildings or
structures within the community by open spaces, permanently planted to grass,
flowers, shrubs or trees, which shall not be less than 15 feet wide, except a
garage, or accessory structure belonging to the site or unit owner may be
closer to the pad if it meets the accessory structure requirements of this
Chapter.
            (2)   The setback from the private street right-of-way shall be not
less than ten feet.
            (3)   Each manufactured home community shall be completely
surrounded, except for permitted entrances and exits, by a yard, in addition to
all other required yards and open spaces, which shall not be less than 15 feet
wide.
            (4)   Each manufactured home community shall contain an open area
for recreation and park purposes which shall be appropriately landscaped and
planted to grass and trees. Said open area shall not be less than two acres for
every 25 manufactured home spaces in the manufactured home community.
         i.   Rules and Regulations. The manufactured home community licensee
shall provide the rules and regulations it will prescribe and enforce so as to
insure:
            (1)   That the community will be kept and maintained in a neat,
sightly and orderly manner.
            (2)   That no public or private nuisance may be kept or maintained
in the community.
            (3)   That no manufactured home shall be used for illegal purposes.
            (4)   That no manufactured home shall be used for other than
residential purposes or by more than one person, whether child or adult, for
each 125 square feet of floor area thereof.
         j.   Manufactured Home Use Restrictions: Businesses Prohibited. No
business shall be conducted in any manufactured home in a manufactured home
community.
         k.   Appeal from Denial. In the event an application for a conditional
use permit is denied, the applicant has the right to appeal the decision as set
forth in this chapter and as set forth in Wis. Admin. Code s. SPS 326.05(2).
   E.   Commercial Conditional Uses.
      The following commercial uses shall be conditional uses and may be
permitted as specified:
      All drive-in facilities require Conditional Use Permits
      All developments within 50 feet of any existing or mapped state trunk
highway or county trunk highway and/or within 150 feet of an existing or mapped
centerline of intersection with any other road require Conditional Use Permits.
      Any development involving multiple, principal use buildings or multiple
tenants in a single commercial building or any single commercial building 2,500
gross square feet or larger.
      Drive-in banks in all business districts.
      Motor vehicle sales and service repair, upholstery repair, body shops,
trailer sales, rentals, and service, and tractor and other farm implement sales
and service, including vehicle washing facilities, and public parking lots in
all Business Districts, but not including the storage of junked or wrecked
automobiles and/or parts, provided all parking of vehicles (including vehicles
with more than six wheels) is specifically addressed in the permitting process.
Gas pumps shall not be located closer than 30 feet from a side lot line or a
rear lot line, and not closer than 25 feet from an existing or proposed street
line.
      Residential quarters for the owner, proprietor, commercial tenant or
rental apartments on a non- ground floor level shall be deemed a conditional
use and shall be subject to Village Plan Commission approval of building, site
and operational plans.
      Commercial recreational facilities, such as bowling alleys, gymnasiums,
lodges, miniature golf, pool and billiard halls, indoor skating rinks, and
indoor theaters are conditional uses and may be permitted in all Business
Districts.
      Motor vehicle sales and service repair, upholstery repair, body shops,
trailer sales, rentals, and service, and tractor and other farm implement sales
and service, including vehicle washing facilities, and, but not including the
storage of junked or wrecked automobiles and/or parts in the B-3, B-4 & B-
5 Business Districts, provided all parking of vehicles (including vehicles with
more than six wheels) is specifically addressed in the permitting process. Gas
pumps shall not be located closer than 30 feet from a side lot line or a rear
lot line, and not closer than 25 feet from an existing or proposed street line.
      Public parking lots in all Business Districts.
   F.   Industrial / Manufacturing Uses.
      1.   Unless a conditional use must be conducted outdoors, all structures
and improvements for conditional principal uses, including their related
accessory uses, are subject to the following general provisions:
         a.   No merchandise shall be handled for sale or service rendered on
the premises except such as are incidental or accessory to the principal
permissible use of the premises, except for sales or service to industrial
customers
         b.   All operations and activities of all uses within this district
shall be conducted wholly inside a building or buildings
         c.   No continuous or intermittent noise from operations greater than
the volume and range of noise emanating from vehicular traffic or its
equivalent in noise shall be detectable at the boundary line of any residence
district
         d.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, or gas, and no odorous or
particulate matter detectable beyond the lot lines shall be emitted
         e.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines
         f.   No glare or heat shall be detectable beyond the lot lines
         g.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon any residence district or into public streets
or parks
      2.   The storage or use of chemicals, whether solid, liquid or gas, shall
be subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The storage, utilization, or manufacturing of materials or
products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted
         b.   The storage, utilization or manufacturing of materials, or
products ranging from free to active burning is permitted provided the
following condition is met: said materials or products shall be stored,
utilized, or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having
incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout by an automatic fire
extinguishing system
         c.   The manufacture of flammable materials which produce explosive
vapors or gases is prohibited
      3.   Special Conditional Use Provisions for Quarrying Operations.
         Quarrying operations, including mineral extraction, washing, crushing
or other processing, are conditional uses permitted in the M-4 Quarrying
District. No person or other entity shall operate a quarry, gravel pit, sand
pit, asphalt or tar paving mix plant or a concrete ready mix plant within the
Village without first obtaining conditional use permit approval from the Plan
Commission as hereinafter provided.
         a.   Reclamation Plan.
            (1)   The application for the conditional use permit shall include
a restoration plan. Under Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 135, Nonmetallic Mining
Reclamation, and Racine County Code chapter 12.5, the applicant is required to
submit a copy of the reclamation plan to the Racine County Planning Division
for its review and approval, unless exempted thereunder.
            (2)   The reclamation plan provided by the applicant shall meet the
requirements of Racine County. The applicant shall pay all fees required by
Racine County directly to Racine County, and shall provide financial security
to Racine County which names Racine County as the beneficiary thereunder, which
will enable Racine County to perform the planned restoration on the site in the
event of default by the applicant.
            (3)   No conditional use permit issued by the Village of Rochester
shall be effective until the applicant’s reclamation plan has been approved by
Racine County.
         b.   Conditional Use Permit.
         Application. Applications for permits shall be submitted in writing,
in duplicate to the Village Plan Commission and shall set forth the following
information:
            (1)   Completed zoning and conditional use applications forms.
            (2)   A written report and site plan outlining the following
issues:
               (a)   Name and address of the applicant.
               (b)   Name and address of the owner of the site on which use is
taking place.
               (c)   Description of site for use by lot, block, and recorded
subdivision or by metes or bounds.
               (d)   Address of site.
               (e)   Statement of the nature of the proposed operation, and
appropriate exhibits, including:
                  [1]   List of equipment and machinery to be used to conduct
operations.
                  [2]   Type and amount of explosives to be used or stored, if
any.
                  [3]   Size, location, and use of the buildings to be
constructed on the site.
                  [4]   Smoke and dust control devices to be utilized, if any.
                  [5]   Highways to be used for the truck traffic to and from
the subject site.
                  [6]   Deodorants or odor control devices.
                  [7]   Proposed devices for muffling of noise.
                  [8]   The employment of safety devices to protect the public
from dangers inherent to the proposed use.
                  [9]   Method of concealing unsightly deposits, if any.
                  [10]   Employee and machinery/equipment parking areas.
                  [11]   Any other pertinent data which the applicant deems
material, or as requested by the Village.
               (f)   Zoning of the site to be used. Existing land use and
zoning abutting subject property.
               (g)   Depth of existing and proposed excavations.
               (h)   Commencement and completion dates of each type of
operation proposed.
               (i)   Hours and days of operation.
               (j)   Number of employees.
               (k)   Method and manner of draining surface water and
accumulated water from the premises.
               (l)   Method and manner of restoring the areas of the operation
after the cessation of operation to a condition of practical usefulness and
reasonable physical attractiveness.
               (m)   Topographic mapping of the site showing existing and
proposed contours, with a contour interval no greater than two feet. (12
copies)
               (n)   Existing trees four inches or more in diameter, measured
four feet from the existing elevation and proposed tree plantings; provided,
however that, for heavily wooded areas, the perimeter of the heavily wooded
area may be delineated and the types of trees and range of diameters may be
provided.
               (o)   Landscaping berms, fencing and gates.
               (p)   Sign locations and sizes.
               (q)   Existing and proposed access roads.
               (r)   Water supply facilities, including the source quantity and
disposition of the water to be used.
               (s)   Proposed sanitary facilities (obtain Racine County
sanitary approval for on-site sanitary facilities).
               (t)   Test results of area water wells, and proposed testing
plans, where the proposed use includes excavation below the water table, along
with sureties to insure performance of continued testing and resolution of
issues identified, in a form determined by the Village Plan Commission upon the
Village Plan Commission finding that such condition or conditions are proper
for protection of health, safety and or welfare of the public.
               (u)   Highway access restrictions, deed restrictions, and
traffic control, along with repair plans for Village roads affected by the
operation. Where determined necessary by the Village Plan Commission, the
applicant shall submit a financial surety for the projected road repair.
               (v)   Letter of Agreement from the applicant agreeing to restore
the subject site in accordance with the approved reclamation plan (see
subsection (5.07.c.(1)).
               (w)   The Village Plan Commission may also as a condition
precedent to the issuance of the zoning permit and conditional use permit,
require an agreement with the applicant and owner whereby they agree to restore
the site to a condition of practical usefulness and reasonable physical
attractiveness.
         c.   Fees.
            (1)   An application for an original permit or a renewal of an
existing permit shall be accompanied by a fee, in an amount set by the Village
Board and set forth in the Village of Rochester Fee Schedule, to defray the
cost of publication of notice of hearing, investigation of the site, public
hearing, and permitting.
            (2)   An application for a permit, where the operation plan of the
property is not changed, shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the
Village Board and set forth in the Village of Rochester Fee Schedule.
         d.   Review and Hearing.
            (1)   Upon receipt of an application submitted the Village Plan
Commission shall inspect the site for which a permit is requested and shall
review the proposed structures, neighboring land and water uses, driveway
locations, highway access, traffic generation and circulation drainage, waste
disposal, water supply system, effect of the proposed use and operation upon
use of surrounding lands, natural beauty, soil erosion, water quality, wildlife
habitat, and shoreland cover and method, manner and practicality of restoration
of the area after cessation of use.
            (2)   A public hearing shall be held by the Village Plan Commission
at its regular meeting place and a notice of said meeting shall be sent by
regular mail to the applicant and all persons owning property lying within 500
feet of the site designated in the application. In addition, the Village Clerk
shall post a notice of such meeting and a Class 2 notice shall be published,
the last insertion to be at least 10 days before the date of said public
hearing. At such hearing, the Village Plan Commission shall hear all persons
interested in granting or denying said permit and may, if it deems fit, take
testimony relative to the applications.
               Where the permit applied for relates to the continuation of an
existing business that previously held a conditional use permit, Plan
Commission shall have the option to require a public hearing, but in the
absence of such requirement, no public hearing shall be held and no public
hearing notice or mailing shall be required. An application for the expansion
of, or changes to, an existing business shall require a public hearing.
         e.   Determination by Plan Commission.
            Within 90 days after the public hearing the Plan Commission shall
either grant or deny the conditional use permit. In making such determination
the Plan Commission shall consider whether the proposed use will be detrimental
to the health, safety and /or welfare of the public; such determination shall
be made on the basis of the information contained in the application, the
recommendation of the Village and information presented at the public hearing.
The Plan Commission may also inspect the site.
            The Plan Commission shall particularly consider the effect of the
proposed operation upon existing streets, neighboring development, proposed
land use, drainage, water supply, soil erosion, natural beauty, character and
land value of the locality and shall also consider the practicality of the
proposed restoration of the site.
         f.   Terms of Permit.
            (1)   A conditional use permit issued pursuant to this Section
shall be for a term of not to exceed two years and may be renewed upon
application for successive periods of not more than two years. Modifications or
additional conditions may be imposed upon application for renewal and the
procedure for renewal shall be the same as that in application for the original
permit. In any event, such permit shall terminate:
               (a)   Upon change of ownership of the site for which the permit
is issued; or upon change of ownership of the firm, company, corporation or
municipality operating the business holding the conditional use permit.
               (b)   In the event the use for which the permit was issued is
discontinued for any period of more than one year during the term of the
permit.
               (c)   In the event of the occurrence of (a) or (b), above,
another permit shall be applied for and obtained by the proposed operator as a
condition precedent to the continued operation of the business, the operation
of a new business, or the resumption of the discontinued business.
               (d)   In the event of application for a permit to which (a) or
(b) above applies, the Plan Commission may consider the same without the
necessity of holding a public hearing.
            (2)   Any permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed
an original permit and the permitted operator shall be bound by the terms
thereof.
         g.   Suspension and Revocation.
            (1)   The following acts shall constitute grounds for suspension or
revocation of an M-4 conditional use permit:
               (a)   Failure to discharge or drain surface water or accumulated
water from the permitted premises in such method and manner as will not hamper,
hinder, infringe on, disturb or damage the lands, drains, and/or ditches of
other persons, firms or corporations, or municipalities, whether owned or
otherwise.
               (b)   The use specified in the permit is not carried on in
accordance with the representations contained in the application or conditions
required by the Plan Commission, or any change in the manner of operation
specified in the conditional use permit approved by the Plan Commission.
               (c)   Failure during and/or after excavation to provide adequate
lateral support to roadways or to the lands of abutting property owners.
               (d)   Failure to comply with conditions required in the
conditional use permit issued by the Plan Commission.
            (2)   A proceeding to suspend or revoke a permit shall be
instituted pursuant to s.
35-100.K.3.
      4.   Special Conditional Use Provisions for Solid Waste Facilities, Scrap
Iron, Steel or Nonferrous Metal Processing Facilities, Recycling Facilities,
Auto Junkyards and Auto Scrap Metal Salvage Yards.
         a.   Solid waste facilities, scrap iron, steel or nonferrous metal
processing facilities, recycling facilities, auto junkyards and auto scrap
metal salvage yards, including their accessory uses, are conditional uses
permitted in the M-3 District. No person or other entity shall operate one of
these facilities within the Village without first obtaining conditional use
permit approval from the Plan Commission and as hereinafter provided.
         b.   Application. Applications for permits shall be submitted in
writing, in duplicate to the Village Plan Commission and shall set forth the
following information:
            (1)   Completed Village zoning and conditional use application
forms and copies of all plans of operation, license applications and other
submissions to the State of Wisconsin.
            (2)   A written report and site plan outlining the following
issues:
               (a)   Name and address of the applicant.
               (b)   Name and address of the owner of the site on which the use
is taking place.
               (c)   Description of site for use by lot, block, and recorded
subdivision or by metes or bounds.
               (d)   Address of site.
               (e)   Statement of the nature of the proposed operation, and
appropriate exhibits, including:
                  [1]   List of equipment and machinery to be used to conduct
operations.
                  [2]   Type and amount of explosive materials to be used or
stored, if any.
                  [3]   Size, location, and use of the buildings to be
constructed on the site.
                  [4]   Smoke and dust control devices to be utilized, if any.
                  [5]   Highways to be used for the truck traffic to and from
the subject site.
                  [6]   Deodorants or odor control devices.
                  [7]   Proposed devices for muffling of noise.
                  [8]   The employment of safety devices to protect the public
from dangers inherent to the proposed use.
                  [9]   Method of concealing unsightly deposits, if any.
                  [10]   Employee and machinery/equipment parking areas.
                  [11]   Method of using and/or removing and disposing methane
and other gases generated by the site.
                  [12]   Method of controlling vermin, flies and other vectors.
                  [13]   Any other pertinent data which the applicant deems
material, or as requested by the Village.
               (f)   Zoning of the site to be used. Existing land use and
zoning abutting subject property.
               (g)   Depth of existing and proposed excavations.
               (h)   Commencement and completion dates of each type of
operation proposed.
               (i)   Hours and days of operation.
               (j)   Number of employees.
               (k)   Method and manner of draining surface water and
accumulated water from the premises.
               (l)   Method and manner of restoring the areas of the operation
after the cessation of operation to a condition of practical usefulness and
reasonable physical attractiveness.
               (m)   Topographic mapping of the site showing existing and
proposed contours, with a contour interval no greater than two feet (12
copies).
               (n)   Existing trees four inches or more in diameter, measured
four feet from the existing elevation and proposed tree plantings; provided,
however that, for heavily wooded areas, the perimeter of the heavily wooded
area may be delineated and the types of trees and range of diameters may be
provided.
               (o)   Landscaping berms, fencing and gates.
               (p)   Sign locations and sizes.
               (q)   Existing and proposed access roads.
               (r)   Water supply facilities, including the source quantity and
disposition of the water to be used.
               (s)   Proposed sanitary facilities (obtain Racine County
sanitary approval for on-site sanitary facilities).
               (t)   Test results of area water wells, and proposed testing
plans, where the proposed use includes excavation below the water table, along
with sureties to insure performance of continued testing and resolution of
issues identified, in a form determined by the Village Plan Commission upon the
Village Plan Commission finding that such condition or conditions are proper
for protection of health, safety and or welfare of the public.
               (u)   Highway access restrictions, deed restrictions, and
traffic control, along with repair plans for Village roads affected by the
operation. Where determined necessary by the Village Plan Commission, the
applicant shall submit a financial surety for the projected road repair.
               (v)   Letter of Agreement from the applicant agreeing to restore
the subject site in accordance with the approved restoration or reclamation
plan.
               (w)   The Village Plan Commission may also, as a condition
precedent to the issuance of the zoning permit and conditional use permit,
require an agreement with the applicant and owner whereby they agree to restore
the site to a condition of practical usefulness and reasonable physical
attractiveness. A financial surety may be required by the Village if the use of
the property does not require proof of financial responsibility under state
law.
         c.   Fees.
            (1)   An application for an original permit or a renewal of an
existing permit shall be accompanied by a fee, in an amount set by the Village
Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule, to defray the cost of publication of
notice of hearing, investigation of the site, public hearing, and permitting.
            (2)   An application for a permit, where the operation plan of the
property is not changed, shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the
Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule.
         d.   Review and Hearing.
            (1)   Upon receipt of an application submitted the Village Plan
Commission shall inspect the site for which a permit is requested and shall
review the proposed structures, neighboring land and water uses, driveway
locations, highway access, traffic generation and circulation drainage, waste
disposal, water supply system, effect of the proposed use and operation upon
use of surrounding lands, natural beauty, soil erosion, water quality, wildlife
habitat, and shoreland cover and method, manner and practicality of restoration
of the area after cessation of use.
            (2)   A public hearing shall be held by the Village Plan Commission
at its regular meeting place and a notice of said meeting shall be sent by
regular mail to the applicant and all persons owning property lying within 500
feet of the site designated in the application. In addition, the Village Clerk
shall post a notice of such meeting and a Class 2 notice shall be published,
the last insertion to be at least 10 days before the date of said public
hearing. At such hearing, the Village Plan Commission shall hear all persons
interested in granting or denying said permit and take testimony relative to
the applications.
            Where the permit applied for relates to the continuation of an
existing business that previously held a conditional use permit, the Plan
Commission shall have the option to require a public hearing, but in the
absence of such requirement, no public hearing shall be held and no public
hearing notice or mailing shall be required. An application for the expansion
of, or changes to, an existing business shall require a public hearing.
         e.   Determination by Plan Commission.
            (1)   Within 90 days after the public hearing the Plan Commission
shall either grant or deny the conditional use permit. In making such
determination the Village Board shall consider whether the proposed use will be
detrimental to the health, safety and /or welfare of the public; such
determination shall be made on the basis of the information contained in the
application, the inspection and review of the Village Plan Commission, the
recommendation of the Village Plan Commission and information presented at the
public hearing. The Village Board may also inspect the site.
            (2)   The Plan Commission shall particularly consider the effect of
the proposed operation upon existing streets, neighboring development, proposed
land use, drainage, water supply, soil erosion, natural beauty, character and
land value of the locality and shall also consider the practicality of the
proposed restoration of the site.
            (3)   The Plan Commission may, as a condition to the issuance of
the permit, demand an agreement with the applicant to ensure performance of any
or all of the following restrictions:
               (a)   There shall be no burning or fire of any kind allowed on
the premises for which the permit is issued. In the event a fire is started on
the premises, whether or not through the fault of the permittee and the
services of a fire department are used to extinguish said fire, the permittee
shall pay any and all costs thereof to the fire departments or fire companies
involved, upon demand.
               (b)   No raw garbage, dead animals, manure, animal or vegetable
waste from any source whatsoever, oil, paint, solvents or other liquid
chemicals, or any similar material shall be dumped on the premises for which
the permit is issued.
               (c)   The proposed operation shall not be detrimental to the
sources of water supply at the residences in the area.
               (d)   All wastes disposed of at the site shall be covered with
at least six inches of compact earth after each day of operation.
               (e)   The working force of the operation shall be confined to as
small an area as possible and surrounded with a snow fence or other appropriate
facilities to confine possible windblown materials to the area. All wind-blown
material resulting from the operation shall be properly picked up and the site
and surrounding properties maintained.
               (f)   The entrance to the premises for which the permit is
issued shall be fenced and shall contain a gate which shall be capable of being
securely locked. The premises shall be kept locked at all times except when
immediate supervision is provided to insure compliance with the provisions of
the ordinance and agreement.
               (g)   The operation and access roads to the site shall be
maintained in a manner to eliminate the possibility of causing a dust problem
in the area.
               (h)   The premises shall be restored to the satisfaction of the
Village Board; said restoration to progress as the area is filled, and the
Board may demand that a performance bond, written by a licensed surety company
in an amount sufficient to secure the performance of the restoration agreement,
be furnished to the Village.
               (i)   The disposal shall be conducted in a sanitary manner by
use of the sanitary landfill method in accordance with the requirements
established by the State of Wisconsin, which are incorporated herein by
reference.
         f.   Terms of Permit.
            (1)   A conditional use permit issued pursuant to this Section
shall be for a term of not to exceed two years and may be renewed upon
application for successive periods of not more than two years. Modifications or
additional conditions may be imposed upon application for renewal and the
procedure for renewal shall be the same as that in application for the original
permit. In any event, such permit shall terminate:
               (a)   Upon change of ownership of the site for which the permit
is issued; or upon change of ownership of the firm, company, corporation or
municipality operating the business holding the conditional use permit.
               (b)   In the event the use for which the permit was issued is
discontinued for any period of more than one year during the term of the
permit, or any permit or license issued by the state is suspended or revoked
               (c)   In the event of the occurrence of (a) or (b), above,
another permit shall be applied for and obtained by the proposed operator as a
condition precedent to the continued operation of the business, the operation
of a new business, or the resumption of the discontinued business.
               (d)   In the event of application for a permit to which (a) or
(b) above applies, the Plan Commission may consider the same without the
necessity of holding a public hearing.
            (2)   Any permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed
an original permit and the permitted operator shall be bound by the terms
thereof.
         g.   Suspension and Revocation.
               (1)   The following acts shall constitute grounds for suspension
or revocation of a conditional use permit under this subsection:
                  (a)   Failure to discharge or drain surface water or
accumulated water from the permitted premises in such method and manner as will
not hamper, hinder, infringe on, disturb or damage the lands, drains, and/or
ditches of other persons, firms or corporations, or municipalities, whether
owned or otherwise.
                  (b)   The use specified in the permit is not carried on in
accordance with the representations contained in the application or conditions
required by the Plan Commission, or any change in the manner of operation
specified in the conditional use permit approved by the Plan Commission.
                  (c)   Failure during and/or after excavation to provide
adequate lateral support to roadways or to the lands of abutting property
owners.
                  (d)   Failure to comply with conditions required in the
conditional use permit issued by the Plan Commission.
               (2)   A proceeding to suspend or revoke a permit shall be
instituted pursuant to s.
35-100.K.3.
   G.   Adult Oriented Entertainment Businesses.
      1.   Findings of Fact:
         a.   The Village Board finds that adult establishments as defined in
this chapter require special zoning in order to protect and preserve the
health, safety, and welfare of the Village.
         b.   Based on its review of the “Report to the American Center for Law
and Justice on the Secondary Impacts of Sex Oriented Businesses;” and based on
its review of National Law Center Summaries of “SOB Land Use” Studies; and
based on studies conducted in St. Croix County, Wisconsin; New Hanover County,
North Carolina; Town and Village of Ellicottville, Cattaraugus County, New
York; City of Garden Grove, California; and Newport News, Virginia; and based
on the findings incorporated in Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.,475 U.S. 41
(1986) and Young v. American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976), the Board finds
that there is convincing evidence that the secondary effects of adult
establishments include an increased risk of prostitution, high-risk sexual
behavior, crime, and other deleterious effects upon existing business and
surrounding residential areas, and decreased property values.
      2.   Intent.
         a.   The Board intends to control the impact of the secondary effects
of sex oriented businesses in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizenry; protect the citizens from increased crime; preserve the
quality of life; and preserve the property values and character of surrounding
neighborhoods and areas.
         b.   It is not the Board's intent to suppress any speech activities
protected by the First Amendment, but to enact a content-neutral ordinance
which addresses the secondary effects of adult establishments while providing
an outlet for First Amendment protected activities.
         c.   In order to minimize and control the secondary effects of adult
establishments upon the Village, it is the Board's intent to prevent the
concentration of adult establishments within a certain distance of other
specified locations which are incompatible with and would suffer from the
secondary effects of adult establishments.
         d.   To accommodate the needs of residents and businesses while
protecting health, safety and welfare, to minimize adverse visual effects of
adult oriented entertainment businesses through careful design and siting
standards and to minimize the detrimental effect sexually- oriented businesses
have on adjacent land uses, the Village Board recognizes that it has a great
interest in the present and future character of the Village’s residential and
commercial neighborhoods and adopts the land use regulations set forth herein.
      3.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to control through zoning
regulations certain adult oriented entertainment uses that have a direct and
detrimental effect on the character of the Village’s residential neighborhoods
and commercial areas. These regulations are enacted because there is convincing
documented evidence, set forth in subsection 1, that:
         a.   The location, siting, design, construction and use of adult
oriented entertainment businesses can have adverse impacts on the surrounding
area, whether residential or commercial; and
         b.   Adult oriented entertainment businesses can exert a dehumanizing
influence on persons attending places of worship, children attending licensed
daycare homes, persons using public parks, and children and other persons
attending public schools; and
         c.   Adult oriented entertainment businesses can contribute to an
increase in criminal activity in the area where such businesses are located,
taxing local law enforcement services; and
         d.   Adult oriented entertainment businesses can significantly
contribute to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can impair the
value of the residential housing in the area in which such businesses are
located; and
         e.   The concentration of adult oriented entertainment businesses in
one area can have a substantially detrimental effect on the area in which such
businesses are concentrated and on the overall quality of urban life. A cycle
of decay can result from the influx and concentration of sexually-oriented
businesses. The presence of such businesses is perceived by others as an
indication that the area is deteriorating and the result can be devastating as
other businesses and residences move out of the vicinity. Declining real estate
values, which can result from the concentration of such business, erode the
Village’s tax base; and
         f.   The Village is authorized to enact zoning regulations to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the Village of
Rochester as provided under Wis. Stat. s. 62.23.
      4.   Section Not a Limitation on Constitutionally Protected Speech. This
section shall not impose a limitation on the content of any communication
materials, including sexually oriented materials as protected by the First
Amendment. This section is enacted to address the secondary effects of adult
oriented entertainment businesses. It shall not be applicable to theaters,
performing arts centers, civic centers, and dinner theaters where live dance,
ballet, music, and dramatic performances of serous artistic merit are offered
on a regular basis; and in which the predominant business or attraction is not
the offering of entertainment which is intended for the sexual interests or
titillation of customers; and where the establishment is not distinguished by
an emphasis on or the advertising or promotion of nude or semi-nude
performances.
      5.   Definitions.
         “Adult Oriented Entertainment Business” means an adult use only
bookstore, adult indoor or outdoor theater, adult massage parlor, adult sauna,
adult entertainment center, adult cabaret, adult health/sport club, adult steam
room/bathhouse facility, adult video store, adult motel, adult novelty shop,
adult modeling studio, adult body painting studio or any other business whose
primary business activity is characterized by emphasis on matters depicting,
describing, or relating to nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or
sadomasochistic abuse as defined herein.
         “Nudity” means the showing of the human male or female genitals or
pubic area with less than a fully opaque covering or the depiction of covered
male genitals in a discernibly turgid state and/or the appearance of bare
buttocks, anus, or female breast.
         “Sexual Conduct” means acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or
physical contact with a person's unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or,
if such person be a female, her breast.
         “Sexual Excitement” means the condition of human male or female
genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      6.   Applicability. The provisions of this Section of the Planning and
Zoning Chapter shall apply to all existing and future adult-entertainment
oriented businesses. However, any such existing business that does not meet the
zoning district restrictions or the distance limitations, may continue its
existence as a non-conforming use; provided, however, that no such business may
be enlarged or increased in size. If such business is discontinued for a period
of 180 days or more it shall lose its status as a legal non-conforming use.
      7.   General Requirements.
         a.   Zoning District. An adult oriented entertainment business as
defined in this Section may be operated or maintained only within the M-
1 Limited Industrial District provided that it is located on a minor or major
arterial road and subject to the distance limitations noted below. It shall be
a prohibited use in any other zoning district.
         b.   Distance Limitations. No adult oriented entertainment business as
defined in this Section shall:
            (1)   be operated or maintained within 1,000 feet of the boundary
of any Residentially Zoned (R) District; or
            (2)   be operated or maintained within 1,000 feet of a church,
park, recreational site, licensed daycare facility, public library, public or
private educational facility which serves persons age seventeen or younger,
elementary school, high school, place of worship, or elderly housing facility;
or
            (3)   be operated or maintained so that there are more than two
such businesses within 2,500 feet as measured by the radius from each business;
or
            (4)   be operated or maintained within 1,000 feet of the State
Trunk Highway 36 corridor.
         c.   Distance limitations set forth herein shall be measured in a
straight line from the main public entrances of said premises or from the lot
lines of properties in Residentially Zoned (R) Districts.
      8.   Same Use Restrictions. No adult oriented business shall be located
in the same building or upon the same property as another such use.
      9.   Sign Limitations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code,
an adult oriented entertainment business shall not be permitted more than one
sign advertising its business within the Village, which shall be an on-premises
or building sign only. The size of the sign shall be not larger than four feet
by four feet. Temporary signs shall not be permitted in connection with any
adult establishment. All such signs shall meet the following criteria:
         a.   A sign shall have no merchandise or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises displayed in window areas or any area where it
can be viewed from the sidewalk in front of the building.
         b.   No sign shall be placed in any window. A one square foot sign may
be placed on the door to state hours of operation and admittance to adults
only.
         c.   No sign shall contain any flashing lights, moving elements, or
mechanically changing messages.
         d.   No sign shall contain any depiction of the human form or any part
thereof nor shall it contain sexually explicit language such as "nude dancing"
or "Girls, Girls, Girls," etc.
         e.   No sexually-oriented business may have any off-premise sign
within the Village.
         f.   In order to allow currently operating adult oriented
entertainment businesses to recover their financial investment in current
signage, any currently operating adult oriented entertainment business shall
bring its signage into conformity with the provisions of this paragraph within
one year from the date of passage of this Chapter.
      10.   Operating Standards. All such adult oriented entertainment
businesses shall operate in accordance with the following:
         a.   Hours of operation: No adult establishment shall be open for
business at any time between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
         b.   Animals: No animals, except only for service animals required to
assist the disabled, shall be permitted at any time at or in any adult
establishment or permitted premises.
         c.   Restricted access. No adult establishment patron shall be
permitted at any time to enter into any of the non-public portions of any adult
establishment, including specifically, but without limitation, any storage
areas or dressing or other rooms provided for the benefit of adult
establishment employees. This subsection shall not apply to persons delivering
goods and materials, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs
to the permitted premises; provided, however, that any such persons shall
remain in such non-public areas only for the purposes and to the extent and
time necessary to perform their job duties.
         d.   Exterior display. No adult establishment shall be maintained or
operated in any manner that causes, creates, or allows public viewing of any
adult material, or any entertainment depicting, describing, or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas," from any
sidewalk, public or private right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on
which the permitted premises is located. No portion of the exterior of an adult
establishment shall utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights, or
spotlights, or any other similar lighting systems, or any words, lettering,
photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner
except to the extent specifically allowed by this chapter with regard to signs.
This subsection shall apply to any advertisement, display, promotional
material, decoration, or sign; to any performance or show; and to any window,
door, or other opening.    
         e.   Noise. No loudspeakers or sound equipment audible beyond the
adult establishment shall be used at any time.
         f.   Manager's stations. Each adult establishment shall have one or
more manager's stations. The interior of each adult establishment shall be
configured in such a manner that there is a direct and substantially
unobstructed view from at least one manager's station to every part of each
area, except restrooms, of the establishment to which any adult establishment
patron is permitted access for any purpose. The cashier's or manager's station
shall be located so that someone working there can quickly move to physically
halt any attempted or accidental entry by a minor. An employee shall occupy the
station at all times when patrons are in and on the premises.
         g.   Adult booths prohibited. Adult booths shall be prohibited in all
adult establishments.
         h.   No loitering policy. The adult establishment shall clearly post
and enforce a no loitering policy.
         i.   Age limit restrictions. The adult establishment shall clearly
post and enforce age-limit restrictions. A one-square-foot sign shall be placed
on each public entrance which shall state "Admittance to adults only" and may
include other pertinent business information. No person under the age 18 shall
be employed or upon premises for any reason.
         j.   Measuring disbursement distances: The distances in this section
shall be measured by following a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from the public entrance (existing or proposed) of an adult
establishment to the nearest point of the protected use as described below.
         k.   Adequate parking. One parking space per 150 square feet of total
gross floor area shall be provided in a lighted area on the permitted premises
of an adult establishment.
         l.   Spacing requirement. No more than one adult establishment may be
located on any one parcel and the location of any one adult establishment shall
be at least 2,500 feet from the establishment of any other adult establishment.
This distance shall be measured from the public entrance of one adult
establishment to the public entrance of the other adult establishment.
         m.   Display windows prohibited: All points of access into structures
containing adult establishments and all windows or other openings shall be
located, constructed, covered, or screened in a manner which will prevent a
view into the interior.
         n.   Location requirement: In the case of an area zoned residential,
the distance shall be measured from the nearest point on the residential
district zoning boundary line. From an area not zoned residential but used for
residential purposes, the measurement shall be taken from the public entrance
of the adult establishment to the nearest entrance of the building in
residential use. From schools, houses of worship, day care centers, libraries,
and museums, the distance shall be measured from the public entrance of the
adult establishment to the main public entrance of the protected use. From
playgrounds, public parks, recreation areas, and schools, houses of worship and
day care centers with playgrounds or recreation areas, the distance shall be
measured from the public entrance of the adult establishment to the nearest
property line of the playground, public park, or recreation area. Along State
Trunk Highway 36, this distance is measured from the outside highway right-of-
way line, including frontage road(s).
         o.   Residential quarters not allowed. No residential quarters shall
be allowed on a premises with an adult establishment.
         p.   No employee shall solicit business outside the building in which
the business is located.
         q.   No male or female person, while on the premises, shall expose to
public view his or her genitals, pubic area, anus, or anal cleft. Full nudity
is prohibited.
         r.   No person on the premises shall engage in sexual conduct,
sadomasochistic abuse or in any way fondle their genitals.
         s.   Nudity is prohibited for any employee of an adult oriented
business where such person is in direct, personal contact with another person.
      11.   Building's Exterior Appearance. The building's exterior shall meet
the following criteria:
         a.   colors are to be earth or neutral tones with primary accent
colors to be within the same color family.
         b.   stripes and geometric patterns are prohibited.
         c.   a color scheme which is directly inherent to a unique recognized
architectural style but not otherwise compliant with this section may be
reviewed and approved by the Village Board.
         d.   the exterior shall be adequately maintained in good condition.
      12.   Permit. A conditional use permit for an adult establishment shall
require the following:
         a.   The details of the ownership of the entity applying, as follows:
            (1)   Individuals.
               (a)   Applicant’s legal name, all of the applicant’s aliases,
and the applicant’s age
               (b)   Applicant’s business address
            (2)   Corporations.
               (a)   Applicant corporation’s complete name and official
business address
               (b)   Legal names, all aliases, the ages, and business addresses
of all directors, officers, and managers of the corporation and of every person
owning or controlling more than 25 percent of the voting shares of the
corporation
               (c)   Applicant corporation’s date and place of incorporation
and the objective for which it was formed
               (d)   Proof that the corporation is a corporation in good
standing and authorized to conduct business in the State of Wisconsin
               (e)   Name of the registered corporate agent and the address of
the registered office for service of process
            (3)   Partnerships (general or limited), joint ventures, or any
other type of organization where two or more persons share in the profits and
liabilities of the organization
               (a)   Applicant organization’s complete name and official
business address
               (b)   Legal name, all aliases, the ages, and business addresses
of each partner (other than limited partners) or any other person entitled to
share in profits of the organization, whether or not any such person is also
obligated to share in the liabilities of the organization
            (4)   Land trusts.
               (a)   Applicant land trust’s complete name
               (b)   Legal, name, all aliases, and the business address of the
trustee of the land trust
               (c)   Legal name, all aliases, the ages, and business addresses
of each beneficiary of the land trust and the specific interest of each
beneficiary in the land trust
               (d)   The interest, if any, that the land trust holds in the
premises
            (5)   If a corporation or partnership is an interest holder in an
entity, that interest shall be disclosed and such entity shall disclose the
information required in this section with respect to its interest holders.
         b.   The general character and nature of the applicant’s business, and
the length of time that the applicant has been in the business of that
character.
         c.   The location (including street address and legal description) and
telephone number of the premises for which the conditional use permit is
sought.
         d.   The specific name of the business that is to be operated under
the adult establishment conditional use permit.
         e.    The identity of each owner of the permitted premises, and the
type of ownership (fee simple, land contract holder, etc.)
         f.   A diagram showing the internal and external configuration of the
premises, including all doors, windows, entrances, exits, the fixed structural
internal features of the premises, plus the interior rooms, walls, partitions,
stages, performance areas, and restrooms. A professionally prepared diagram in
the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required,
provided, however, that each diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches and sufficient to
show clearly the various interior dimensions of all areas of the premises and
to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The approval or
use of the diagram required pursuant to this subsection shall not be deemed to
be, and may not be interpreted or construed to constitute, any other Village
approval otherwise required pursuant to applicable Village ordinances and
regulations.
         g.   The specific types(s) of adult establishment(s) that the
applicant proposes to operate on the permitted premises.
         h.   A copy of each adult establishment’s permit, liquor license, and
gaming license currently held by the applicant, or any of the individuals
identified in the application pursuant to subsection a. above.
         i.   The name of the individual(s) who shall be the day-to-day, on-
site manager(s) of the proposed adult establishment.
         j.   The fees set forth in the Village fee schedule.
         k.   Any other information the Zoning Administrator may reasonably
require to apply the requirements of this chapter.
         l.   The Zoning Administrator may require a survey from a surveyor
licensed by the State of Wisconsin to determine the spacing requirements
adopted in this Section.
         m.   A site plan, landscaping plan, zoning permit application, and
letter of agent status, if necessary, as required by site plan review
application requirements adopted by the Village.
         n.   Incomplete applications returned. Any application for a
conditional use permit for an adult establishment that does not include all of
the information and documents required pursuant to this Chapter, as well as the
required fees, shall be deemed to be incomplete and shall not be acted on by
the Zoning Administrator, who shall give the applicant a written notification
and explanation of such action pursuant to this section.
      13.   Applicant cooperation required. An applicant for a Conditional Use
Permit for an adult establishment shall cooperate fully in the inspections and
investigations conducted by the Village. The applicant's failure or refusal to:
         a.   Give any information reasonably relevant to the investigation of
the application;
         b.   Allow the permitted premises to be inspected;
         c.   Appear at any reasonable time and place; or
         d.   Otherwise cooperate with the investigation and inspection
required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the applicant that
the applicant is ineligible for a conditional use permit for an adult
establishment and shall be grounds for denial of the permit by the Zoning
Administrator.
      14.   Time for issuance or denial of permit. The Zoning Administrator
shall, within 90 days after submittal of a completed application, or within
such other period of time as the Village and the applicant shall otherwise
agree, either issue or deny an adult establishment conditional use permit
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      15.   Standards for issuance or denial of permit.
         a.   Issuance. The Zoning Administrator shall issue an adult
establishment permit to an applicant if the Zoning Administrator finds and
determines all of the following:
            (1)   All information and documents required by this Chapter for
issuance of an adult establishment permit have been properly provided.
            (2)   No person identified in the application may:
               (a)   Have been denied an adult establishment permit within 12
months immediately preceding the date of the application;
               (b)   Be a person whose adult establishment permit has been
revoked within 12 months immediately preceding the date of the application; or
               (c)   Be a person whose adult establishment permit is under
suspension at the time of application.
            (3)   The adult establishment and the permitted premises comply
with all requirements under this Chapter and the applicant has obtained a
license required for the adult establishment by the village, if any.
            (4)   The applicant has signed the permit he or she has received
indicating his or her acceptance of the conditions of the permit.
         b.   Denial: If the Zoning Administrator determines that the applicant
has not met any one or more of the conditions set forth in this section, then
the Zoning Administrator shall deny issuance of the adult establishment permit
and shall give the applicant a written notification and explanation of such
denial.
         c.   License deemed to be issued: If the Zoning Administrator does not
issue or deny the adult establishment permit within 90 days after the properly
completed application is submitted, then the adult establishment permit applied
for shall be deemed to have been issued.
      16.   Enforcement.
         a.   A violation of any conditions or an adult establishment permit is
a violation of this Chapter.
         b.   Notwithstanding any other remedy, a violation of any conditions
or an adult establishment permit shall be grounds for revocation of the adult
establishment permit.
      17.   Continued conforming status. An adult establishment lawfully
operating as a conforming use is not rendered a nonconforming use by the
location, subsequent to the grant of the adult establishment permit, if a
protected use is located within 1,000 feet of the adult establishment.
      18.   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconditional by reason of any
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phase or
portion thereof.
   H.   Non-Municipal, Non-Commercial Off-Road Trails for Off-Road Vehicles.
      1.   Purpose and Intent. The increasing use of off-road vehicles within
the municipal boundaries of the Village of Rochester has generated safety,
recreational, and environmental issues, which are the responsibility of the
Village of Rochester to address. The purpose of this section is to regulate the
use of offroad vehicles to protect the environment, to ensure that the
recreational use of offroad vehicles is compatible with all other recreational
uses within municipal boundaries, to promote the health and safety of the
operators and the general public by requiring adherence to certain rules and
regulations designed to ensure the safe operation of such vehicles, and to
restrict the use of off-road vehicles to areas where such is appropriate and
permitted.
      2.   Definitions.
         a.   "Off-Road Trail" means a new or existing repetitive track made
for the use of an off road vehicle(s) where a permanent and defined path has
been created and/or where the landscape has been manipulated in such a manner
as to create a path or ruts that may or may not include jumps, pits, hills,
and/or berms.
         b.   "Off-Road Vehicle" means a motorized vehicle designed for use on
a variety of non-improved surfaces including but not limited to, dune buggies,
four-wheel drive vehicles, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), dirt
bikes, mini bikes, motor bikes, mopeds and trail bikes. Agricultural equipment
(such as farm tractors, seeders, combines, cultivators, etc.) used in the
operation of a farm, garden tractors and riding lawnmowers are not off-road
vehicles.
      3.   Regulations. Off-road trails for off-road vehicles are subject to
the following:
         a.   Lot Size and Setback Requirements. All off-road vehicle trails
shall be operated on property that is five or more contiguous acres in size
with the consent of the property owner, subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Only the owner(s) and/or occupants of the real estate with
the consent of the property owner may operate an off-road vehicle on the off-
road trail.
            (2)   No off-road vehicles shall be operated within 100 feet of any
property line.
         b.   Protective Head Gear. Off-road vehicle operators shall comply
with the State of Wisconsin statutory requirements for protective head gear.
         c.   Nuisance Control. Off-road vehicles involved in the operation of
offroad trails shall comply with the following standards:
            (1)   All off-road vehicles shall not exceed a noise level of 72
decibels, measured at any point along the property line.
            (2)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle that is not
equipped at all times with an effective and suitable muffling device on its
engine to effectively deaden or muffle the noise of the exhaust.
            (3)   All off-road vehicles shall be equipped with a working spark
arrestor.
            (4)   No person may modify the exhaust system of any off-road
vehicle in any manner which will increase the noise emitted above the emission
standard provided in Paragraph 3(c)(1).
            (5)   There shall not be any racing of engines that will cause
unnecessary and/or unusual noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers
the comfort, health, peace, or safety of others.
            (6)   The operation of off-road vehicles shall not cause any
unnecessary or unusual circulation of dust.
         d.   Setbacks from Environmental Sensitive Areas. The proposed offroad
vehicle trail shall have a minimum setback of 100 feet from a floodplain or
floodway, designated wetland area and/or isolated natural area as defined by
the State of Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, and freshwater marshes
and bogs, preservation easements, and primary and secondary corridors. Off-road
vehicle trails shall be located at least 600 feet from residential,
institutional, and recreational park districts.
         e.   Exemptions. Seasonal snowmobile trails mapped by the Racine
County Alliance of Snow Mobile Clubs and/or with the oversight by the Racine
County Public Works Department are exempt. This regulation does not apply to
the same type of vehicles used strictly for agricultural, governmental,
emergency, transportation or utilitarian purposes or on vehicle trails, which
would be allowed in all districts without permits in compliance with all other
laws and regulations.
         f.   Hours of Operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to 11:00
a.m. until 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday and 10:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. on
Saturdays and Sundays.
         g.   Reckless Behavior. No person may operate an off-road vehicle in
such a way as to recklessly create a substantial risk of serious bodily injury.
         h.   Liability. No permit shall be issued unless the permittee has
adequate liability insurance with minimum limits of $2,000,000 bodily injury
and property damage, combined single limit, naming the Village, its officers,
employees and agents as additional insured parties. Said insurance shall
indemnify and defend the Village, its officers, employees and agents against
all claims, liability, loss, damages or expenses, whether caused by or
contributed to by the negligence of the Village, its officers, employees or
agents. Said insurance shall provide that the Village receive written notice 30
days prior to any cancellation, nonrenewal, or material change in the policy.
Proof of said insurance shall be submitted to the Village, prior to the
issuance of the zoning permit. Failure to maintain adequate insurance in
accordance with this paragraph is grounds for permit revocation.
         i.   Restoration. If landscaping is altered for purposes of off-road
trails for off-road vehicles, a restoration plan must be submitted to the
Village Plan Commission, and is subject to the approval of the Village Plan
Commission, prior to commencement of use. Upon abandonment or termination of
the use, and prior to the property being transferred to a new owner, the
property must be restored pursuant to the approved restoration plan.
   I.   Non-Agricultural Businesses in Agricultural Districts.
      The purpose of agricultural zoning districts is to ensure that property
is managed properly for agricultural uses, as well as residential uses that may
support agriculture. Business and industrial uses are to be located in
appropriate business or industrial zoning districts. The Village of Rochester
acknowledges, however, that in certain situations, businesses that are
agriculture-adjacent or entirely non-agricultural may exist in agricultural
districts without detrimental effect to the land, air, water, traffic patterns,
or surrounding properties. If a non-agricultural business complies with the
requirements of this subsection and is permitted as a conditional use by the
zoning district, a conditional use permit may be issued.
      1.   All non-agricultural businesses are subject to the following general
provisions:
         a.   No merchandise shall be handled for sale or service rendered on
the premises except such as are incidental or accessory to the approved
conditional use, except for sales or service to industrial/commercial customers
(no retail sales establishments).
         b.   Unless an approved conditional use must naturally be conducted
outdoors, all operations and activities of all non-agricultural businesses
shall be conducted wholly inside a building or buildings.
         c.   No continuous or intermittent noise from operations greater than
the volume and range of noise emanating from normal vehicular traffic or its
equivalent in noise shall be detectable at the boundary line of any other
property.
         d.   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas, odors, or
particulate matter detectable beyond the lot lines shall be emitted.
         e.   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
         f.   No glare or heat shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
         g.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to
avoid casting direct light upon any residential property or into public streets
or parks.
         h.   Business-related traffic to, from, or within the business site
should not noticeably and adversely affect neighboring properties, traffic
patterns, road conditions, or public maintenance requirements.
         i.   The business must not be hazardous, offensive, or otherwise
adverse to the environmental quality, water quality, or shoreland cover in the
Village.
      2.   The storage or use of chemicals, whether solid, liquid or gas, shall
be subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The storage, utilization, or manufacturing of materials or
products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
         b.   The storage, utilization or manufacturing of materials, or
products ranging from free to active burning is permitted provided the
following condition is met: said materials or products shall be stored,
utilized, or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having
incombustible exterior walls and protected throughout by an automatic fire
extinguishing system.
         c.   The manufacture or bulk storage of flammable materials that
produce explosive vapors or gases is prohibited. Bulk storage of flammable
materials that produce explosive vapors or gases is permitted subject to the
following conditions:
            (1)   Only aboveground storage tanks shall be allowed.
            (2)   Storage tanks shall be a minimum 200-foot distance from any
well.
            (3)   Storage tanks shall be a minimum 300-foot distance from any
structure on any neighboring property.
            (4)   Storage tanks must be located within a secondary means of
containment, with interior volume equivalent to at least the entire capacity of
the largest single container held within. The construction of the secondary
containment must be sufficiently impervious in order to contain all discharged
liquids.
            (5)   Storage tanks may be located under an accessory structure
constructed for the sole purpose of providing shade to the tanks, but shall not
be located inside of a fully enclosed structure.
      3.   Approval Process.
         No non-agricultural business shall be operated or located within an
agricultural zoning district without first obtaining an approved conditional
use permit pursuant to this section.
         a.   Application. Applications for permits shall be submitted in
writing to the Village Plan Commission and shall set forth the following
information:
            (1)   Completed conditional use application form.
            (2)   Completed fire inspection of the premises by the Rochester
Volunteer Fire and Rescue Company within the previous 12 months of the date of
application.
            (3)   A written report and site plan outlining the following
issues:
               (a)   Name and address of the applicant.
               (b)   Name and address of the owner of the site on which use is
taking place.
               (c)   Address of site.
               (d)   Statement of the nature of the proposed operation, and
appropriate exhibits, including:
                  [1]   List of equipment and machinery to be used to conduct
operations.
                  [2]   Type and amount of hazardous materials (including fuel
and oil) to be used or stored, if any.
                  [3]   Size, location, and use of the buildings to be
constructed or utilized on the site for business purposes.
                  [4]   Smoke and dust control devices to be utilized, if any.
                  [5]   Access and egress plan for business-related vehicular
traffic to and from the site, as well as anticipated daily traffic volume.
                  [6]   Deodorants or odor control devices, if any.
                  [7]   Anticipated noise-generating activities and proposed
methods of muffling noise, if any.
                  [8]   The employment of safety devices to protect the public
from dangers inherent to the proposed use.
                  [9]   Method of screening or concealing from public view
unsightly deposits, including outdoor storage, if any.
                  [10]   Employee and machinery/equipment parking areas.
                  [11]   Any other pertinent data which the applicant deems
material, or as requested by the Village.
               (e)   Zoning of the site to be used. Existing land use and
zoning abutting subject property.
               (f)   Days and hours of operation.
               (g)   Number of employees working on site daily.
               (h)   Method and manner of draining surface water and
accumulated water from the premises.
               (i)   Landscaping berms, fencing, and gates.
               (j)   Sign location and size. Only one sign is permissible per
business site, permitted separately. The sign may be a non-illuminated
nameplate (name, address and type of business) not to exceed two square feet in
area either mounted flat on a building or a yard light post or signpost set
back a minimum of five feet from the street right-of-way line.
               (k)   Existing and proposed access roads.
               (l)   Water supply facilities, including the source quantity and
disposition of the water to be used.
               (m)   Proposed sanitary facilities (obtain Racine County
sanitary approval for on-site sanitary facilities).
               (n)   Highway access restrictions, deed restrictions, and
traffic control, along with repair plans for Village roads adversely affected
by the operation. If determined necessary by the Village Plan Commission, the
applicant shall submit a financial surety for the projected road repair.
         c.   Fees.
            (1)   An application for an original permit or a renewal of an
existing permit shall be accompanied by a fee, in an amount set by the Village
Board and set forth in the Village of Rochester Fee Schedule, to defray the
cost of publication of notice of hearing, investigation of the site, public
hearing, and permitting.
         d.   Review and Hearing.
            (1)   Upon receipt of an application submitted the Village Plan
Commission and/or village staff may inspect the site for which a permit is
requested and shall review the proposed structures, neighboring land and water
uses, driveway locations, highway access, traffic generation and circulation,
drainage, waste disposal, water supply system, effect of the proposed use and
operation upon use of surrounding lands and properties, natural beauty, soil
erosion, water quality, wildlife habitat, and shoreland cover.
            (2)   A public hearing shall be held by the Village Plan Commission
at its regular meeting place and a notice of said meeting shall be sent by
regular mail to the applicant and all persons owning property lying within 500
feet of the site designated in the application. In addition, the Village Clerk
shall post a notice of such meeting and a Class 2 notice shall be published. At
such hearing, the Village Plan Commission shall hear all persons interested in
granting or denying said permit and may, if it deems fit, take testimony
relative to the applications.
            (3)   Where the permit applied for relates to the continuation of
an existing business that previously held a conditional use permit, Plan
Commission shall hold a public hearing to permit neighboring property owners an
opportunity to voice concerns about the continuation of the business. An
application for the expansion of, or changes to, an existing business shall
similarly require a public hearing.
         e.   Determination by Plan Commission.
            Within 90 days after the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall
either grant or deny the conditional use permit. In making such determination,
the Plan Commission shall consider whether the proposed use will be detrimental
to the health, safety, and/or welfare of the public; such determination shall
be made on the basis of the information contained in the application, the
recommendation of the Village, and information presented at the public hearing.
The Plan Commission may also inspect the site.
            The Plan Commission shall particularly consider the effect of the
proposed operation upon existing streets, neighboring development, proposed
land use, drainage, water supply, soil erosion, natural beauty, character, and
land value of the locality, and shall also consider the effect the business may
have on nearby residences.
            Non-agricultural businesses existing within an agricultural zoning
district at the time this Section is enacted may continue to operate and not be
in violation of this subsection from the time a completed conditional use
permit application is received by the Village of Rochester to the time that the
Plan Commission makes its determination.
         f.   Terms of Permit.
            (1)   A conditional use permit issued pursuant to this Section
shall be for a term of not to exceed three years and may be renewed upon
application for successive periods of not more than three years. Modifications
or additional conditions may be imposed upon application for renewal and the
procedure for renewal shall be the same as that in application for the original
permit. In any event, such permit shall terminate:
               (a)   Upon change of ownership of the site for which the permit
is issued; or upon change of ownership of the firm, company, corporation, or
municipality operating the business holding the conditional use permit.
               (b)   In the event the use for which the permit was issued is
discontinued for any period of more than one year during the term of the
permit.
               (c)   In the event the operation of the business constitutes a
public nuisance that is not adequately mitigated.
               (d)   In the event of the occurrence of (a) or (b), above,
another permit shall be applied for and obtained by the proposed operator as a
condition precedent to the continued operation of the business, the operation
of a new business, or the resumption of the discontinued business.
               (e)   In the event of application for a permit to which (a)
above applies, the Plan Commission may consider the application without the
necessity of holding a public hearing.
            (2)   Any permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed
an original permit and the permitted operator shall be bound by the terms
thereof.
         g.   Suspension and Revocation.
            (1)   The following acts shall constitute grounds for suspension or
revocation of a non-agricultural business conditional use permit:
               (a)   Failure to comply with the requirements and restrictions
set forth in this Section.
               (b)   The use specified in the permit is not carried on in
accordance with the representations contained in the application or conditions
required by the Plan Commission, or any change in the manner of operation
specified in the conditional use permit approved by the Plan Commission.
               (c)   Failure to operate the business otherwise in compliance
with the underlying zoning district.
               (d)   Failure to comply with conditions required in the
conditional use permit issued by the Plan Commission.
            (2)   A proceeding to suspend or revoke a permit shall be
instituted pursuant to s. 35-100.K.3.
   J.   Amendment of Conditional Use Permits.
      1.   When permissible: application. At such time as the holder of a
conditional use permit wishes to change the terms of its permit in a manner
which does not change the nature of the use but that could increase or expand
the operation of the use by 25% or less, the holder of the permit shall apply
to the Plan Commission for an amendment to its permit, and shall state in its
application the precise changes it wishes to make and the expected effect of
the changes upon the site, neighboring uses, parking, traffic generation and
circulation, and the drainage, sewerage and water systems. The applicant shall
also list the names of the property owner and all abutting property owners.
Changes to a permit which are expected to change the nature of a use, change
the location of the use to a site which is not in the same structure as the
existing use, or create greater than a 25 percent increase in the operation of
a use may not be made; in that event, application must be made for a new
conditional use permit. When a holder of a conditional use permit sells or
transfers the underlying business or other use, this section shall apply. When
a use is vacant for 12 months or longer, a new conditional use permit shall be
required.
      2.   Procedure. An applicant for an amendment to a conditional use permit
shall pay a fee as set forth in the Village of Rochester fee schedule. Upon
application for an amendment to a conditional use permit, the Clerk shall
schedule such application for review by the Plan Commission at an open meeting,
and shall mail notice thereof to the property owner and all abutting property
owners along with a copy of the application not less than 14 days prior to the
date of the scheduled review. No public hearing shall be required, but the Plan
Commission shall accept comments from any person attending the open meeting.
      3.   Review and approval. The Village Plan Commission shall conduct a
review of the application as set forth in s. 35-100C. If the Plan Commission
denies the amendment, the applicant may appeal from the decision from the
Zoning Board of Appeals within 30 days of the final decision by writ of
certiorari to the Racine County Circuit Court.
   K.   Penalties.
      1.   In every instance where work commences upon a project subject to
this Section prior to the conditional use permit being applied for and granted,
there shall be a double fee imposed for the permit, and the applicant shall
remain required to meet full compliance with this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to use or improve any structure or land in
violation of any of the provisions of the section. In addition to penalties
imposed under
Chapter 50 of this Code, the Village may institute appropriate action to enjoin
a violation of this section, or to cause any structure so constructed or
altered to be vacated or removed.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to use or improve any structure or land in
violation of any of the terms of a conditional use permit. In addition to or as
an alternative to the penalties imposed under s.
35-500 and
Chapter 50, the Village may:
         a.   Send notice to the permit holder of the violation, and require
that the violation be corrected within five days, or more if allowed by the
Zoning Administrator or Village Attorney, after written notice is given.
         b.   If the violation is not corrected, or a second violation is
incurred within a twelve-month period of the first violation, the Village may
act to suspend or revoke the conditional use permit, as follows:
            (1)   Complaint. The Zoning Administrator or any resident may file
a sworn written complaint with the Village Clerk alleging one or more
violations.
            (2)   Summons. Upon the filing of the complaint, the Plan
Commission shall issue a summons, signed by the Clerk and directed to any peace
officer in the municipality. The summons shall command the permit holder
complained of to appear before the Plan Commission on a day and place named in
the summons, not less than three days and not more than 30 days from the date
of issuance, and show cause why his or her conditional use permit should not be
revoked or suspended. The summons and a copy of the complaint shall be served
on the permit holder at least three days before the time at which the licensee
is commanded to appear. Service shall be in the manner provided under Wis.
Stat. ch. 801 for service in civil actions in Circuit Court.
            (3)   Procedure on hearing.
               (a)   If the permit holder does not appear as required by the
summons, the allegations of the complaint shall be taken as true, and if the
Plan Commission finds the allegations sufficient, the Plan Commission shall
report its findings to the Village Board. If the Village Board concurs, the
Conditional Use Permit shall be revoked. The Village Clerk shall give notice of
the revocation to the person whose permit is revoked.
               (b)   If the permit holder appears as required by the summons
and denies the complaint, both the complainant and the permit holder may
produce witnesses, cross-examine witnesses and be represented by counsel. The
permit holder shall be provided a written transcript of the hearing at his or
her expense.
               (c)   If the Plan Commission finds the complaint to be true, the
Plan Commission shall determine whether the conditional use permit shall either
be suspended for not less than 10 days nor more than 90 days.
            (4)   The Plan Commission shall make findings of fact, conclusions
of law and a decision with respect to the conditional use permit. The
Commission shall provide the complainant and the permit holder with a copy of
the decision.
            (5)   If the Plan Commission finds the complaint to be true, the
conditional use permit shall be suspended or revoked as determined by the Plan
Commission.
            (6)   If the Plan Commission finds the complaint untrue, the
proceeding shall be dismissed without cost to the accused. If the Plan
Commission finds the complaint to be malicious and without probable cause, the
costs shall be paid by the complainant.
            (7)   The Village Clerk shall give notice of each suspension or
revocation to the person whose permit is suspended or revoked.
            (8)   Effect of revocation. When a conditional use permit is
revoked under this subsection, the revocation shall be recorded by the Village
Clerk and no other conditional use permit issued under this chapter may be
granted within 12 months of the date of revocation to the person whose permit
was revoked. In the event, however that a new application reveals a material
difference in any of the items specified hereof, the Plan Commission may, upon
a finding that the new application does include such material difference,
proceed to hear and determine such application within said year.
            (9)   Judicial review. The action of the Plan Commission in
suspending or revoking any permit, or the failure to revoke or suspend any
permit for good cause, may be reviewed by the circuit court for Racine County
by writ of certiorari commenced within 30 days of the Village Clerk’s notice of
the decision.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-13-2021; Ord. 2023-8,
passed 6-12-2023; Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-13-24)
 
Notes
1 Amended 8-6-18, Ordinance #2018-5
35-101 to 35-129 [Reserved for Future Use]
35-130 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
   A.   Intent. It is intended that conditional use permits shall be issued
under this Section to promote the effective and efficient use of solar energy
and to review proposed solar energy systems and regulate solar energy systems
so that the public health and safety will not be jeopardized.
   B.   Authority; Adoption of State Law. This Section is enacted pursuant to
the authority granted in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0401, as amended from time to time,
which is adopted herein. This section is not intended to be more restrictive
than said authority, and in the event of a conflict, the statutory provisions
supersede the provisions of this Section. In the event of a conflict between
this Section and other provisions of this Chapter, the provisions of the
statutes and this Section supersede the balance of the Chapter.
   C.   Regulation and Applicability.
      1.   Regulation. Except as provided in subsection 2., an owner must apply
for and receive a conditional use permit prior to the construction of a solar
energy system or the expansion of an existing or previously approved solar
energy system.
      2.   Applicability. This Section applies to solar energy systems for
which a permit is applied for on or after the date of the enactment of this
Section, except:
         a.   Subject to subsection c., free standing passive solar energy
systems that meet all of the site regulations, inclusive of setback and height
requirements, for primary or accessory structures (as applicable) in the zoning
districts in which they are located.
         b.   Subject to subsection c., roof or wall mount solar energy systems
located on buildings that meet all of the site regulations, inclusive of
setback and height requirements, for the zoning districts in which they are
located.
         c.   Subsections a. and b. do not apply to free standing passive solar
energy systems located in the front or side yards of Historic Structures or
structures located in the Historic Preservation Overlay District, or solar
energy systems installed on the front elevation of Historic Structures or
structures located in the Historic Preservation Overlay District. Such systems
shall be submitted to the Historic Preservation Committee for review, comment
and recommendation to the Plan Commission, and shall require conditional use
permits. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 38, Historic Preservation, a Certificate of Appropriateness is not
required for solar energy systems.
   D.   Definitions. In this Section:
      “Active solar energy system” means a solar energy system which operates
with mechanical means, including but not limited to motors, pumps and valves.
      “Passive solar energy system” means a solar energy system which operates
without mechanical means.
      “Photovoltaic solar energy system” means a solar energy system which
converts solar energy directly into electricity.
      “Solar energy” means radiant energy received from the sun.
      “Solar energy system” means equipment which directly converts and then
transfers or stores solar energy into usable forms of thermal or electrical
energy.
      “Solar farm” means a collection of photovoltaic solar energy panels that
together have a total capacity to generate more than 300 kilowatts of
electricity.
   E.   Siting Criteria.
      1.   Type of Use. A solar energy system may be a primary use or an
accessory use. The siting provisions set forth in this Section apply to the
system regardless of the type of use and supersede the setback distances and
height provisions of the underlying zoning district.
      2.   Location. A solar energy system may be located in any zoning
district where it is not otherwise barred by federal or state law or an
ordinance adopted in conformance with that law.
      3.   Setback Distance and Height Requirements. Solar energy systems
regulated under this Section shall meet the setback and height provisions
determined by the Plan Commission on a case by case basis.
   F.   Application and Notice Procedures.
      1.   It is recommended, but not required, that the applicant meet with
the Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector prior to submitting an
application for a solar energy system to discuss filing requirements,
application formats, timelines, permits from outside agencies, the handling of
confidential information, and fees.
      2.   Application Required. An owner shall file an application to
construct a solar energy system regulated under this Section in conformance
with this section. The owner shall ensure that the information contained in the
application is accurate, and shall file the number of paper and electronic
copies required by the Village for review and for availability to the public.
The application shall include all of the following:
         a.   Solar energy system description and maps showing the locations of
all proposed solar energy facilities.
         b.   Manufacturer’s brochures and all plans and specifications of the
solar energy system.
         c.   Timeline and process for constructing the solar energy system.
         d.   Information regarding anticipated impact of the solar energy
system on local infrastructure.
         e.   Information regarding noise anticipated to be attributable to the
solar energy system.
         f.   Information regarding the extent to which shadows would be
created on adjacent and neighboring properties or sunlight would be blocked by
the proposed solar energy system.
         g.   Information regarding the extent of glare on adjacent and
neighboring properties.
         h.   Information regarding the anticipated effects of the solar energy
system on airports and airspace.
         i.   A list of all state and federal permits required to construct and
operate the solar energy system.
         j.   For solar farms, information regarding the planned use and
modification of roads within the Village during the construction, operation,
and decommissioning of the solar energy system, including a process for
assessing road damage caused by solar energy system activities and for
conducting road repairs at the owner's expense.
         k.   For solar farms, a decommissioning and site restoration plan
providing reasonable assurances that the owner will be financially able to
remove the solar energy system and restore the site.
         l.   Potential shared revenue and community benefits set forth in Wis.
Stat. ch. 79.
         m.   Any other information necessary to understand the construction,
operation or decommissioning of the proposed solar energy system.
      3.   Notice and Hearing. The provisions for notice and hearing set forth
under s.
35-100, Conditional Use, shall apply.
   G.   Application Completeness and Time Limits.
      1.   An application is complete if it meets the filing requirements under
this Section.
      2.   The Village shall determine the completeness of an application, and
shall notify the owner in writing of the completeness determination, no later
than 45 days after the day the application is filed. An application is
considered filed the day the owner notifies the Village in writing that all the
application materials have been filed. If the Village determines that the
application is incomplete, the notice provided to the owner shall state the
reasons for the determination.
      3.   An owner may file a supplement to an application that the Village
has determined to be incomplete. There is no limit to the number of times that
an owner may re-file an application. For incomplete applications, the owner
shall provide additional information as specified in the notice under
subsection 2.
      4.   An additional 45-day completeness review period shall begin the day
after the Village receives responses to all items identified in the notice
under subsection 2.
      5.   If the Village does not make a completeness determination within the
applicable review period, the application is considered to be complete.
      6.   Requests for additional information. The Village may request
additional information necessary to understand the solar energy system after
determining that an application is complete. An owner shall provide additional
information in response to all reasonable requests. An owner shall respond to
all inquiries made subsequent to a determination of completeness in a timely,
complete, and accurate manner.
   H.   Village Review and Approval of a Solar Energy System.
      1.   Standard for Approval. The Village shall review each proposed system
on a case by case basis, and may not unreasonably deny an application for a
solar energy system or impose unreasonable conditions, provided, however, that
the Village may impose the following conditions and restrictions on approval of
solar energy systems, inclusive of systems located on Historic Structures and
in the Historic Preservation Overlay District:
         a.   The Village may impose a restriction that serves to preserve or
protect the public health and safety.
         b.   The Village may impose a restriction that does not significantly
increase the cost of a system or significantly decrease its efficiency.
         c.   The Village may impose a restriction that allows for an
alternative system of comparable cost and efficiency.
      2.   Written Decision.
         a.   The Village shall issue a written decision to grant or deny an
application for a solar energy system. The written decision shall include
findings of fact supported by evidence in the record. If an application is
denied, the decision shall specify the reason for the denial. Approval is
subject to the conditions set forth in this Section.
         b.   The Village shall provide its written decision to the owner. If
the Village approves an application for a solar energy system, the Village
shall provide the owner with a duplicate original of the decision. The owner
shall record the duplicate original of a decision approving an application with
the register of deeds for Racine County
      3.   Effect of ownership change on approval. Approval by the Village of a
solar energy system remains in effect if there is a change in the owner of the
solar energy system. An owner shall provide timely notice of any change in the
owner of the solar energy system to the Village.
      4.   Fees.
         a.   The owner shall pay the fee adopted by the Village Board and set
forth in the Fee Schedule. The fee shall consist of a reasonable application
fee and a requirement that the owner reimburse the Village for reasonable
expenses relating to the review and processing of the application for a solar
energy system. The fee and reimbursement requirement shall be based on the
actual and necessary cost of the review of the solar energy system application,
and may include the cost of services necessary to review an application that
are provided by outside engineers, attorneys, planners, environmental
specialists, and other consultants or experts. The Village may by ordinance set
standardized application fees based on the size and complexity of a proposed
solar energy system.
         b.   The Village may require the owner of a solar energy system to
submit up to 50 percent of the total estimated amount of the estimated
reimbursement for the solar energy system application review under subsection
a. before issuing a written decision under subsection 2 if the Village gives
written notice to the owner of its intent to do so within ten days of the date
the application is deemed complete and the notice contains an estimate of the
amount of the fee and the relevant reimbursement requirements.
         c.   The Village may not charge an owner an annual fee or other
recurring fees to operate or maintain a solar energy system.
   I.   Record of Decision.
      1.   Recordkeeping.
         a.   The Village shall keep a complete written record of its decision-
making relating to an application for a solar energy system.
         b.   If the Village denies an application, the Village shall keep the
record for at least 7 years following the year in which it issues the decision.
         c.   If the Village approves an application, the Village shall keep
the record for at least 7 years after the year in which the solar energy system
is decommissioned.
      2.   Record Contents. The record of a decision shall include:
         a.   The approved application and all additions or amendments to the
application.
         b.   A copy of any notice or correspondence that the Village issues
related to the application.
         c.   A record of any public meeting and any hearing related to the
application. The record may be an electronic recording, a transcript prepared
from an electronic recording, or a transcript prepared by a court reporter or
stenographer. The record shall include any documents or evidence submitted by
meeting or hearing participants.
         d.   Copies of any correspondence or evidentiary material that the
Village considered in relation to the application, including copies of all
written public comments filed with the Village.
         e.   Minutes of any Village Board, Plan Commission or other committee
meetings held to consider or act on the application.
         f.   A copy of the written decision.
         g.   Other materials that the Village prepared to document its
decision-making process.
         h.   A copy of any Village ordinance cited in or applicable to the
decision.
      3.   Post-construction Filing Requirement. Within 90 days of the date a
solar farm commences operation, the owner shall file with the Village an as-
built description of the solar farm, an accurate map of the solar farm showing
the location of all solar energy system facilities, geographic information
system information showing the location of all solar energy system facilities
and current information identifying the owner of the solar farm.
   J.   Modifications to an Approved Solar Energy System.
      1.   Material Change.
         a.   An owner may not make a material change in the approved design,
location or construction of a solar energy system without the prior written
approval of the Village.
         b.   An owner shall submit an application for a material change to an
approved solar energy system to the Village.
      2.   Review Limited.
         a.   When the Village receives an application for a material change to
a solar energy system under subsection 1.b., it may not reopen the merits of
the earlier approval but shall consider only those issues relevant to the
proposed change.
         b.   An application for a material change shall contain information
necessary to understand the material change.
         c.   The Village may hold at least one public meeting to obtain
comments on and to inform the public about a proposed material change to an
approved solar energy system.
   K.   Monitoring Compliance of Solar Farms.
      1.   Monitoring Procedure. The Village may establish a procedure to
monitor compliance by the owner with any condition on an approved solar farm or
to assess when solar farm facilities are not maintained in good repair and
operating condition. The procedure may include timelines, provide for payment
of reasonable fees for conducting an assessment, and provide for notification
to the public.
      2.   Third-party Inspector during Construction. The Village may require
an owner to pay a reasonable fee for a third-party inspector to monitor and
report to the Village regarding the owner's compliance with permit requirements
during construction of a solar farm. An inspector monitoring compliance under
this subsection shall also report to a state permitting authority upon the
state permitting authority's request.
   L.   Complaint Process.
      1.   Making a Complaint.
         a.   An aggrieved person may make a complaint regarding failure by an
owner to comply with an obligation under this Section.
         b.   A complaint under subsection a. shall be made first to the owner
of the solar energy system pursuant to a complaint resolution process developed
by the owner.
         c.   A complainant may petition the Village for review of a complaint
that is not resolved within 45 days of the day the owner receives the original
complaint.
      2.   Complaint Resolution.
         a.   An owner shall use reasonable efforts to resolve complaints
regarding a solar energy system and shall investigate complaints regarding a
solar energy system at the owner's expense.
         b.   For Solar Farms:
            (1)   Within 30 days of receiving a complaint, an owner shall
provide an initial response to the complainant.
            (2)   An owner shall make a good faith effort to resolve complaints
within 45 days of receiving a complaint. An owner shall notify the Village of
complaints that have not been resolved within 45 days of the date the owner
received the original complaint.
            (3)   An owner shall maintain a log of all complaints received
regarding the solar farm. The owner shall include in the log the name and
address of each complainant, the nature of each complaint, and the steps taken
to resolve each complaint. An owner shall make any complaint log available to
the Village upon request.
            (4)   An owner shall develop a complaint resolution process that is
consistent with this subsection.
      3.   Monitoring Committee for Solar Farms.
         a.   Committee. Except as provided in subsection c., the Village may
establish a monitoring committee to oversee resolution of complaints regarding
a solar farm.
         b.   Duties. A monitoring committee established under subsection a.
may do any of the following:
            (1)   Maintain a record of all complaints brought to it.
            (2)   Require the owner to provide the committee with information
regarding the owner's response to any complaint forwarded to the owner by the
committee.
            (3)   Recommend to the Village a reasonable resolution to a
complaint based upon the information gathered by the committee.
35-140 WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
   A.   Intent. It is intended that conditional use permits shall be issued
under this Section to promote the effective and efficient use of wind energy
and to review proposed wind energy systems and regulate wind energy systems so
that the public health and safety will not be jeopardized.
   B.   Authority; Adoption of State Laws. This Section is enacted pursuant to
the authority granted in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0401 and Wis. Admin. Code ch. PSC
128, as amended from time to time, which are adopted herein. Pursuant to Wis.
Admin. Code s. 128.03, this section is not intended to be more restrictive than
said authority, and in the event of a conflict, the statutory and
administrative code provisions supersede the provisions of this Section. In the
event of a conflict between this Section and other provisions of this Chapter,
the provisions of the statutes, the administrative code, and this Section
supersede the balance of the Chapter.
   C.   Regulation and Applicability.
      1.   Regulation. Except as provided in subsection 2., an owner must apply
for and receive a conditional use permit prior to the construction of a wind
energy system or the expansion of an existing or previously approved wind
energy system.
      2.   Applicability.
         a.   This Section applies to wind energy systems for which
construction began on or after March 1, 2011; systems placed in operation on or
after March 1, 2011; systems approved by the Village on or after March 1, 2011,
or systems for which an application was filed with the Village on or after
March 1, 2011.
         b.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 196.491(3)(d), the Wisconsin Public
Service Commission reviews and has final authority over all applications for
wind energy systems classified as large electric generating facilities designed
for nominal operation at a capacity of 100 megawatts or more. Such applications
are not, by statute, subject to direct Village review and approval. The Village
may determine to submit public comments, intervene in the proceeding, or take
any other action allowed by law upon notification by the PSC that such an
application has been received.
         c.   Pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code s. 128.02(4), the PSC may apply
individual consideration to exceptional or unusual situations for individual
wind energy systems and may alter the requirements herein.
   D.   Definitions. In this Section:
      “Commercial Communications" includes communications used by government
and military entities for emergency purposes, licensed amateur radio service,
and non-emergency communications used by agricultural, business, government,
and military entities including aviation radar, commercial mobile radio
service, fixed wireless service, global positioning, line- of-sight, microwave,
personal communications service, weather radar, and wireless internet service.
      "Commission" or “PSC” means the Public Service Commission.
      "Decommissioning" means removal of all of the above ground portion of a
wind energy system, including wind turbines and related facilities, except for
access roads if removal has been waived by the property owner; and all below
ground facilities, except underground collector circuit facilities and those
portions of concrete structures 4 feet or more below grade.
      "DNR" means the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
      "Maximum Blade Tip Height" means the nominal hub height plus the nominal
blade length of a wind turbine, as listed in the wind turbine specifications
provided by the wind turbine manufacturer. If not listed in the wind turbine
specifications, "maximum blade tip height" means the actual hub height plus the
blade length.
      "Nameplate Capacity" means the nominal generating capacity of a wind
energy system, as listed in the wind turbine specifications provided by the
wind turbine manufacturer.
      "Nonparticipating Property" means real property that is not a
participating property.
      "Nonparticipating Residence" means a residence located on
nonparticipating property.
      “Occupied Community Building" means a school, church or similar place of
worship, daycare facility or public library.
      "Owner" means a person with a direct ownership interest in a wind energy
system, regardless of whether the person was involved in acquiring the
necessary rights, permits and approvals or otherwise planning for the
construction and operation of a wind energy system; and/or, at the time a wind
energy system is being developed, a person who is acting as a wind energy
system developer by acquiring the necessary rights, permits and approvals for
or by planning for the construction and operation of a wind energy system,
regardless of whether the person will own or operate the wind energy system.
      "Participating Property" means a turbine host property; and/or real
property that is the subject of an agreement that provides for the payment of
monetary compensation to the landowner from an owner regardless of whether any
part of a wind energy system is constructed on the property or specifies in
writing any waiver of a requirement or right under this section and that the
landowner's acceptance of payment establishes the landowner's property as a
participating property.
      “Participating Residence" means a residence located on participating
property.
      “Personal Communications" includes wireless telecommunications, personal
communications service, radio, television, wireless internet service, and other
systems used for personal use purposes.
      "Residence" means an occupied primary or secondary personal residence
including a manufactured home as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(2), a
hospital, community-based residential facility, residential care apartment
complex or similar facility, or a nursing home. "Residence" includes a
temporarily unoccupied primary or secondary personal residence. "Residence"
does not include a recreational vehicle as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 340.01
(48r), notwithstanding the length of the vehicle; a camping trailer as defined
in Wis. Stat. s. 340.01(6m); or a permanently abandoned personal residence.
      "Shadow Flicker" means a pattern of moving shadows cast on a residence or
an occupied community building caused by sunlight shining through moving wind
turbine blades resulting in alternating changes in light intensity.
      "Small Wind Energy System" means a wind energy system that has a total
installed nameplate capacity of 300 kilowatts or less and that consists of
individual wind turbines that have an installed nameplate capacity of not more
than 100 kilowatts. \
      “Turbine Host Property" means real property on which at least one wind
turbine is located.
      "Wind Access Easement" means a written document that creates a legal
interest in real property that restricts the use of the property to avoid
interference with the wind resource on another property.
      "Wind Energy System" has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0403(1)
(m), and is used to convert wind energy to electrical energy.
      "Wind Energy System Easement" means a written document that creates a
legal interest in real property that permits an owner to place, construct or
operate a wind turbine or other wind energy system facility on the property.
      "Wind Energy System Emergency" means a condition or situation at a wind
energy system that presents a significant threat of physical danger to human
life or a significant threat to property or a natural event that causes damage
to wind energy system facilities.
      "Wind Energy System Facility" means any component of a wind energy
system, such as a wind turbine, collector circuit, access road, electric system
interconnection facility or operation and maintenance facility.
      "Wind Energy System Lease" means a written agreement between a landowner
and an owner that establishes the terms and conditions associated with the
placement, construction or operation of a wind turbine or other wind energy
system facility on a landowner's property.
   E.   Development of a Wind Energy System; Owner Notice Requirements.
      1.   Pre-application notice. At least 90 days (60 days for small wind
energy systems) before an owner files an application to construct a wind energy
system, the owner shall use commercially reasonable methods to provide written
notice of the planned wind energy system to all of the following:
         a.   Landowners within one mile of a planned wind turbine host
property. [Note: For small wind energy systems, notice shall be provided only
to adjacent land owners.
         b.   Political subdivisions within which the wind energy system may be
located.
         c.   Emergency first responders and air ambulance service providers
serving a political subdivision within which the wind energy system may be
located. [Note: Not required for small wind energy systems.]
         d.   The Wisconsin department of transportation, the PSC, the
Wisconsin department of agriculture, trade and consumer protection, and the
office of the deputy undersecretary of the U.S. department of defense. [Note:
Not required for small wind energy systems.]
      2.   Additional Pre-application Notice to Commission. At least 180 days
before filing an application to construct a wind turbine with a maximum blade
tip height exceeding 600 feet, the owner shall provide written notice of the
planned wind energy system to the PSC.
      3.   Pre-application notice requirements. The owner shall include all of
the following in a notice under subsection 1. or 2:
         a.   A complete description of the wind energy system, including the
number and size of the planned wind turbines.
         b.   A map showing the planned location of all wind energy system
facilities.
         c.   Contact information for the owner.
         d.   A list of all potential permits or approvals the owner
anticipates may be necessary for construction of the wind energy system.
         e.   Whether the owner is requesting a joint application review
process under Wis. Admin. Code s. PSC 128.30(7) and the name of each political
subdivision that may participate in the joint review process.
   F.   Real Property Provisions.
      1.   Easement recording required. A wind energy system easement or wind
access easement shall be recorded under Wis. Stat. ch. 706. A wind energy
system easement or wind access easement shall include the term of the easement
and a full legal description of the property subject to the easement.
      2.   Wind lease and waiver provisions. A wind energy system lease and any
waiver under subsections H or J shall hold harmless and indemnify the real
property owner for all of the following:
         a.   Any violation of federal, state or local law by the owner of the
wind energy system.
         b.   Any damages or bodily injury caused by the construction,
operation or decommissioning of the wind energy system.
   G.   Existing Property Uses.
      1.   Land use and commercial enterprises. An owner shall make reasonable
efforts to ascertain and accommodate any land use or commercial enterprise
located on a nonparticipating property within 0.5 mile of a proposed wind
turbine site if the land use or commercial enterprise exists when the owner
gives notice under subsection E.1., or if complete publicly-available plans for
construction are on file with the Village within 30 days of the date the owner
gives notice under subsection E.1. [Note: For small wind energy systems, this
section applies only to existing land uses and enterprises that are located on
adjacent non-participating properties.]
      2.   Agricultural use. An owner shall design a wind energy system to
reasonably minimize the conversion of land from agricultural use.
   H.   Siting Criteria.
      1.   Type of Use. A wind energy system may be a primary use or an
accessory use. The siting provisions set forth in this Section apply to the
system regardless of the type of use and supersede the setback distances and
height provisions of the underlying zoning district.
      2.   Location. A wind energy system may be located in any zoning district
where it is not otherwise barred by federal or state law or an ordinance
adopted in conformance with that law, provided that the Village may deny an
application for approval of a wind energy system that has a nominal capacity of
at least one megawatt if the proposed site of the wind energy system is in an
area primarily designated for future residential or commercial development, as
shown in a map that is adopted as part of a comprehensive plan under Wis. Stat.
s. 66.1001(2)(b) and (f) before June 2, 2009, or as shown in such maps after
December 31, 2015 as part of a comprehensive plan that is updated as required
under Wis. Stat. s. 66.1001(2)(i).
      3.   Setback Distance and Height Requirements.
         a.   For wind energy systems that are not classified as small wind
energy systems, an owner shall design and construct the system using the
following wind turbine setback distances, provided, however, that the owner of
a nonparticipating residence or occupied community building may waive the
applicable wind turbine setback distances for those structures to a minimum
setback distance of 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height. The owner of a
nonparticipating property may waive the applicable wind turbine setback
distance from a nonparticipating property line:
Setback Description Setback Distance
Setback Description                                                            Setback
                                                                               Distance
                                                                               The
                                                                               lesser
                                                                               of 1,250
                                                                               feet or
                                                                               3.1
Occupied Community Buildings                                                   times
                                                                               the
                                                                               maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
                                                                               1.1
                                                                               times
                                                                               the
Participating Residences                                                       maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
                                                                               The
                                                                               lesser
                                                                               of 1,250
                                                                               feet or
                                                                               3.1
Nonparticipating Residences                                                    times
                                                                               the
                                                                               maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
Participating Property Lines                                                   None
                                                                               1.1
                                                                               times
                                                                               the
Nonparticipating Property Lines                                                maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
                                                                               1.1
                                                                               times
                                                                               the
Public Road Right-of-way                                                       maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
                                                                               1.1
                                                                               times
Overhead Communication and Electric Transmission or Distribution Lines – Not the
including utility service lines to individual houses or outbuildings           maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
Overhead Utility Service Lines – Lines to individual houses or outbuildings  None
 
         b.   For small wind energy systems, an owner shall design and
construct the system using the following wind turbine setback distances,
provided, however, that the owner of an adjacent nonparticipating residence or
adjacent occupied community building may waive the applicable turbine setback
distances:
Setback Description Setback Distance
Setback Description                                                            Setback
                                                                               Distance
                                                                               1.0
                                                                               times
                                                                               the
Occupied Community Buildings                                                   maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
Participating Residences                                                       None
                                                                               1.0
                                                                               times
                                                                               the
Nonparticipating Residences                                                    maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
Participating Property Lines                                                   None
                                                                               1.0
                                                                               times
                                                                               the
Nonparticipating Property Lines                                                maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
Public Road Right-of-way                                                       None
                                                                               1.0
                                                                               times
Overhead Communication and Electric Transmission or Distribution Lines – Not the
including utility service lines to individual houses or outbuildings           maximum
                                                                               blade
                                                                               tip
                                                                               height
Overhead Utility Service Lines – Lines to individual houses or outbuildings  None
 
         c.   An owner shall measure wind turbine setback distances as a
straight line from the vertical centerline of the wind turbine tower to the
nearest point on the permanent foundation of a building or residence or to the
nearest point on the property line or feature, as applicable.
         d.   An owner shall work with the Village and owners of participating
and nonparticipating properties to site wind turbines to minimize individual
hardships.
         e.   The height and setback distance limitations for a wind turbine
near a public use airport or heliport shall conform to the airport and airport
approach protection provisions under Wis. Stat. ss. 114.135 and 114.136 or the
wind turbine height and setback distance provisions set by the federal aviation
administration obstruction standards in 14 CFR Part 77, whichever applies. The
height and setback distance limitations for wind turbines near a private
heliport at a medical facility used for air ambulance service, or a private use
airport or heliport, shall conform to the federal aviation administration
obstruction standards that apply to public use heliports.
   I.   Noise Criteria.
      1.   Definitions. In this section, nighttime hours are the hours
beginning at 10:00 p.m. and ending at 6:00 a.m. daily and daytime hours are the
hours beginning at 6:00 a.m. and ending at 10:00 p.m. daily.
      2.   Planning.
         a.   The noise limits in this section apply at the outside wall of a
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building that exists when the
owner gives notice under subsection E, or for which complete publicly-available
plans for construction are on file with the Village within 30 days of the date
on which the owner gives notice under subsection E.
         b.   An owner shall design the proposed wind energy system to minimize
noise at a residence or occupied community building to the extent reasonably
practicable.
         c.   An owner shall design a wind energy system to comply with the
noise standards in this section under planned operating conditions.
      3.   Noise limits.
         a.   Except as provided in subsection b. and in subsections 4.c. and
5, an owner shall operate the wind energy system so that the noise attributable
to the wind energy system does not exceed 50 dBA during daytime hours and 45
dBA during nighttime hours.
         b.   In the event audible noise due to wind energy system operations
contains a steady pure tone, such as a whine, whistle, screech, or hum, the
owner shall promptly take corrective action to permanently eliminate the noise.
This paragraph does not apply to sound the wind energy system produces under
normal operating conditions.
      4.   Compliance.
         a.   If an owner uses sound level measurements to evaluate compliance
with this section at a nonparticipating residence or occupied community
building, those measurements shall be made as near as possible to the outside
wall nearest to the closest wind turbine, or at an alternate wall as specified
by the owner of the nonparticipating residence or occupied community building.
The owner may take additional measurements to evaluate compliance in addition
to those specified by this section.
         b.   Upon receipt of a complaint regarding a violation of the noise
standards in subsection 3.a., an owner shall test for compliance with the noise
limits in subsection 3.a. The Village or the Plan Commission may not require
additional testing to show compliance with subsection 3.a. if the owner has
provided the results of an accurate test conducted within two years of the date
of the complaint showing that the wind energy system is in compliance with
subsection 3.a. at the location relating to the complaint.
         c.   Methods available for the owner to comply with subsection 3 shall
include operational curtailment of one or more wind turbines. Upon receipt of a
complaint about a noise under subsection 3.b., the owner shall use operational
curtailment to eliminate the noise until the owner permanently corrects the
problem.
         d.   An owner shall evaluate compliance with subsection 3.a. as part
of pre- and post- construction noise studies. An owner shall conduct pre- and
post-construction noise studies under the most current version of the noise
measurement protocol as described in Wis. Admin. Code s. PSC 128.50(2). [Note:
This subsection does not apply to small wind energy systems.]
      5.   Waiver. Upon request by an owner of a wind energy system, an owner
of an affected nonparticipating residence or occupied community building may
relieve the owner of the wind energy system of the requirement to meet any of
the noise limits in this section at the affected residence or occupied
community building by written contract with the wind energy system owner.
Unless otherwise provided in a contract signed by an owner of an affected
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building, a waiver by an owner
of an affected nonparticipating residence or occupied community building is an
encumbrance on the real property, runs with the land until the wind energy
system is decommissioned, and shall be recorded under Wis. Stat. ch. 706.
      6.   Notification.
         a.   Before entering into a contract under subsection 5., an owner of
a wind energy system shall provide written notice of the requirements of this
section to the owner of an affected nonparticipating residence or occupied
community building.
         b.   Before the initial operation of the wind energy system, an owner
of a wind energy system shall provide notice of the requirements of this
section to an owner of a nonparticipating residence or occupied community
building within 0.5 mile of a constructed wind turbine that has not entered
into a contract under subsection 5. [Note: For small wind energy systems, the
requirement for notice applies only to each adjacent nonparticipating residence
or occupied community building before the initial operation of the small wind
energy system.]
   J.   Shadow Flicker.
      1.   Planning.
         a.   The shadow flicker requirements in this subsection apply to a
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building that exists when the
owner gives notice under subsection E or for which complete publicly-available
plans for construction are on file with the Village within 30 days of the date
on which the owner gives notice under subsection E.
         b.   An owner shall design the proposed wind energy system to minimize
shadow flicker at a residence or occupied community building to the extent
reasonably practicable.
         c.   An owner shall use shadow flicker computer modeling to estimate
the amount of shadow flicker anticipated to be caused by a wind energy system
and shall design the wind energy system so that computer modeling indicates
that no nonparticipating residence or occupied community building will
experience more than 30 hours per year of shadow flicker under planned
operating conditions. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
      2.   Shadow Flicker Limits. An owner shall operate the wind energy system
in a manner that does not cause more than 30 hours per year of shadow flicker
at a nonparticipating residence or occupied community building. If a
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building experiences more than
30 hours per year of shadow flicker under the wind energy system's normal
operating conditions, the owner shall use operational curtailment to comply
with this subsection.
      3.   Shadow flicker mitigation.
         a.   An owner of a wind energy system shall work with an owner of a
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building to mitigate the
effects of shadow flicker to the extent reasonably practicable.
         b.   An owner shall provide reasonable shadow flicker mitigation at
the owner's expense for a nonparticipating residence or occupied community
building experiencing 20 hours or more per year of shadow flicker. [Note: Not
applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         c.   An owner shall model shadow flicker and a nonparticipating
residence or occupied community building is eligible for mitigation if computer
modeling shows that shadow flicker at the nonparticipating residence or
occupied community building will be 20 hours or more per year. An owner of a
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building is not required to
document the actual hours per year of shadow flicker if modeling indicates the
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building is eligible for
mitigation. A nonparticipating residence or occupied community building that
experiences 20 hours or more per year of shadow flicker based on records kept
by the resident of a nonparticipating residence or the occupant of an occupied
community building shall also be eligible for mitigation. [Note: Not applicable
to small wind energy systems.]
         d.   An owner may provide shadow flicker mitigation for any residence
or occupied community building in addition to the mitigation required under
subsection b. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         e.   The requirement under subsection b. to mitigate shadow flicker
applies when the owner receives a complaint or request for mitigation regarding
shadow flicker for an eligible nonparticipating residence or occupied community
building. If shadow flicker mitigation is required, the owner of the wind
energy system shall allow the owner of the nonparticipating residence or
occupied community building to choose a preferred reasonable mitigation
technique, including installation of blinds or plantings at the wind energy
system owner's expense. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
      4.   Waiver. Upon request by an owner of a wind energy system, an owner
of an affected nonparticipating residence or occupied community building may
relieve the wind energy system owner of a requirement under subsection 2. or
3.b. at the affected nonparticipating residence or occupied community building
by written contract with the wind energy system owner. Unless otherwise
provided in a contract signed by an owner of an affected nonparticipating
residence or occupied community building, a waiver by an owner of an affected
nonparticipating residence or occupied community building is an encumbrance on
the real property and runs with the land until the wind energy system is
decommissioned, and shall be recorded under Wis. Stat. ch. 706.
      5.   Notification.
         a.   Before entering into a contract under sub.4., a wind energy
system owner shall provide notice of the requirements of this section to
individual owners of an affected nonparticipating residence or occupied
community building. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         b.   Before the initial operation of the wind energy system, a wind
energy system owner shall provide notice of the requirements of this section to
an owner of a nonparticipating residence or occupied community building within
0.5 mile of a constructed wind turbine that has not entered into a contract
under sub.4. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
   K.   Signal Interference.
      1.   Planning.
         a.   Except as provided in subsection 4, the signal interference
requirements in this section apply to commercial communications and personal
communications in use when the wind energy system begins operation.
         b.   An owner shall use reasonable efforts to avoid causing
interference with commercial communications and personal communications to the
extent practicable.
         c.   An owner may not construct wind energy system facilities within
existing line-of-sight communication paths that are used by government or
military entities to provide services essential to protect public safety. The
Village shall require an owner to provide information showing that wind
turbines and other wind energy system facilities will be in compliance with
this subsection.
      2.   Commercial Communications Interference Mitigation. An owner shall
use reasonable and commercially available technology to mitigate interference
caused by a wind energy system with commercial communications in use when a
wind energy system begins operation. Before implementing mitigation measures,
the owner shall consult with affected parties regarding the preferred
mitigation solution for commercial communications interference problems. Except
as provided in subsection 4., an owner shall mitigate commercial communications
interference caused by the wind energy system by making the affected party's
preferred reasonable mitigation solution effective until either the wind energy
system is decommissioned or the communication is no longer in use, whichever is
earlier. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
      3.   Personal Communications Interference Mitigation.
         a.   An owner shall use reasonable and commercially available
technology to mitigate interference with personal communications in use when a
wind energy system begins operation caused by a wind energy system. A political
subdivision may require an owner to use reasonable and commercially available
technology to mitigate interference with personal communications that were not
in use when the wind energy system began commercial operation, if a wind energy
system is causing the interference and the interference occurs at a location at
least 0.5 mile from a wind turbine. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy
systems.]
         b.   Before implementing mitigation measures, the owner shall consult
with affected parties regarding the preferred mitigation solution for personal
communications interference problems. Except as provided in subsection 4., an
owner shall mitigate personal communications interference caused by the wind
energy system by making the affected party's preferred reasonable mitigation
solution effective until either the wind energy system is decommissioned or the
communication is no longer in use, whichever is earlier. [Note: Not applicable
to small wind energy systems.]
      4.   Mitigation protocol. The Village may, under a protocol established
by the PSC under Wis. Admin Code s. PSC 128.50(2), require an owner to
implement a new mitigation solution that becomes commercially available before
the wind energy system is decommissioned to address interference for which
mitigation is required under subsection 2 or 3 and for which the original
mitigation solution implemented is only partially effective. [Note: Not
applicable to small wind energy systems.]
   L.   Stray Voltage.
      1.   Testing Required.
         a.   An owner shall work with the local electric distribution company
to test for stray voltage at all dairy and confined animal operations within
0.5 mile of a wind energy system facility pursuant to the stray voltage
protocol established by the PSC before any wind energy system construction
activity that may interfere with testing commences and again after construction
of the wind energy system is completed, except as otherwise specified by
commission staff under subsection b.
         b.   Before any testing under subsection a. begins, an owner shall
work with PSC staff to determine the manner in which stray voltage testing will
be conducted and on which properties. The electric distribution company serving
a dairy or confined animal operation where testing is required under subsection
a. shall conduct or arrange to conduct all required testing at the expense of
the owner.
      2.   Results of Testing. An owner and the electric distribution company
shall provide to commission staff the results of all stray voltage testing in
writing.
      3.   Requirement to Rectify Problems. An owner shall work with the
electric distribution company and farm owner to rectify any stray voltage
problems attributable to the construction and operation of the wind energy
system, in compliance with the commission's stray voltage protocol.
   M.   Construction and Operation.
      1.   Physical Characteristics.
         a.   An owner may not display advertising material or signage other
than warnings, equipment information, or indicia of ownership on a wind
turbine. An owner may not attach any flag, decorative sign, streamers,
pennants, ribbons, spinners, fluttering, or revolving devices to a wind
turbine. An owner may attach a safety feature or wind monitoring device to a
wind turbine.
         b.   An owner shall ensure that a wind turbine has a conventional or
unobtrusive finish.
         c.   An owner shall install lighting at a wind energy system that
complies with standards established by the federal aviation administration. The
Village may not establish lighting requirements for a wind energy system that
conflict with standards established by the federal aviation administration. The
Village requires the use of shielding or control systems approved by the
federal aviation administration to reduce visibility of lighting to individuals
on the ground.
         d.   An owner shall take appropriate measures to ensure that a wind
turbine is not readily climbable except by authorized personnel.
         e.   An owner shall ensure that all wind turbine access doors and
electrical equipment are locked when authorized personnel are not present.
         f.   An owner shall place appropriate warning signage on or at the
base of each wind turbine.
         g.   An owner shall post and maintain up-to-date signs containing a
24-hour emergency contact telephone number, information identifying the owner,
and sufficient information to identify the location of the sign within the wind
energy system. An owner shall post these signs at every intersection of a wind
energy system access road with a public road and at each wind turbine location.
[Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         h.   An owner shall clearly mark guy wires and supports for a wind
energy system, meteorological tower or other device for measuring wind speeds
so that the wires and supports are visible to low flying aircraft under fair
weather conditions.
      2.   Electrical Standards.
         a.   An owner shall construct, maintain, and operate collector circuit
facilities in a manner that complies with the national electrical safety code
and Wis. Admin. Code ch. PSC 114 and shall construct, maintain, and operate all
wind energy system facilities in a manner that complies with the national
electrical code.
         b.   An owner shall construct collector circuit facilities for a wind
energy system underground to the extent practicable. [Note: Not applicable to
small wind energy systems.]
         c.   An owner shall establish an inspection schedule for all overhead
collector circuits to ensure that third-party facilities, including cable
television and telecommunications cables, are not attached or bonded to
overhead collector circuit grounding. If third-party facilities are found
attached to the overhead collector facilities, the owner shall ensure that the
third-party facilities are promptly removed. [Note: Not applicable to small
wind energy systems.]
      3.   Construction, Operation, and Maintenance Standards.
         a.   An owner shall construct, operate, repair, maintain and replace
wind energy system facilities as needed to keep the wind energy system in good
repair and operating condition and in a manner that protects individuals from
injury.
         b.   An owner shall minimize soil compaction, topsoil mixing and
damage to drainage systems on agricultural land during the construction or
decommissioning of the wind energy system. The Village may establish reasonable
requirements designed to minimize soil compaction, topsoil mixing and damage to
drainage systems on agricultural land applicable to the site as part of the
conditional use permit. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         c.   Except for the area physically occupied by the wind energy system
facilities, an owner shall restore the topography, soils and vegetation of the
project area to original condition after construction is complete, unless
otherwise provided in a contract signed by an affected landowner, considering
any modifications needed to comply with DNR requirements. [Note: Not applicable
to small wind energy systems.]
         d.   An owner shall carry general liability insurance relating to
claims for property damage or bodily injury arising from the construction,
operation or decommissioning of the wind energy system and shall include
turbine host property owners as additional insured persons on the policy.
[Note: Not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
      4.   Emergency Procedures.
         a.   An owner shall notify the Village of the occurrence and nature of
a wind energy system emergency within 24 hours of the wind energy system
emergency.
         b.   [Note: the entirety of this subsection b. is not applicable to
small wind energy systems.] An owner shall establish and maintain liaison with
the Village and with fire, police, and other appropriate first responders
serving the wind energy system to create effective emergency plans that include
all of the following:
            (1)   A list of the types of wind energy system emergencies that
require notification under subsection a.
            (2)   Current emergency contact information for first responders
and for the wind energy system owner, including names and phone numbers.
            (3)   Procedures for handling different types of wind energy system
emergencies, including written procedures that provide for shutting down the
wind energy system or a portion of the system as appropriate.
            (4)   Duties and responsibilities of the owner and of first
responders in the event of a wind energy system emergency.
            (5)   An emergency evacuation plan for the area within 0.5 mile of
any wind energy system facility, including the location of alternate landing
zones for emergency services aircraft.
         c.   The owner shall review the emergency plan at least annually in
collaboration with fire, police and other appropriate first responders to
update and improve the emergency plan as needed.
         d.   The owner shall distribute current copies of the emergency plan
to the Village and fire, police and other appropriate first responders as
identified by the Village.
         e.   The Village may require the owner to provide annual training for
fire, police and other appropriate first responders regarding responding to a
wind energy system emergency until the wind energy system has been
decommissioned.
         f.   An owner of a wind energy system shall do all of the following:
            (1)   Furnish its operator, supervisors and employees who are
responsible for emergency action a copy of the current edition of the emergency
procedures established under this subsection to ensure compliance with those
procedures.
            (2)   Train the appropriate operating personnel to ensure they have
knowledge of the emergency procedures and verify that the training is
effective.
            (3)   As soon as possible after the end of a wind energy system
emergency, review employee activities to determine whether the procedures were
effectively followed.
   N.   Decommissioning.
   1.   Requirement to Decommission.
         a.   An owner of a wind energy system shall decommission and remove
the wind energy system when the system is at the end of its useful life.
         b.   A wind energy system is presumed to be at the end of its useful
life if the wind energy system generates no electricity for a continuous 360-
day period (540 day period for a small wind energy system). This presumption
may be rebutted under subsection c (except for small wind energy systems).
         c.   [Note: The entirety of this subsection c. is not applicable to
small wind energy systems.] Upon application by the owner, and except as
provided in subsection d., the Village shall grant an extension of the time
period for returning the wind energy system to service by one or more
additional 180 day periods if the owner demonstrates it is likely the wind
energy system will operate again in the future and any of the following occur:
            (1)   The owner submits a plan to the Village that demonstrates an
ongoing good faith effort to return the wind energy system to service and
outlines the steps and schedule for returning the wind energy system to service
in a reasonable period of time, including by repairing, replacing or repowering
the wind energy system facilities as necessary to generate electricity.
            (2)   The owner demonstrates that the wind energy system is part of
a prototype or other demonstration project being used for ongoing research or
development purposes.
            (3)   The owner demonstrates that the wind energy system is being
used for educational purposes.
         d.   The Village may deny a request for an extension under subsection
c. if the wind energy system has not generated any electricity for a continuous
period of 540 days or more and the Village finds that the owner is not capable
of returning the wind energy system to service within a reasonable period of
time. [Note: This subsection is not applicable to small wind energy systems.].
         e.   [Note: the entirety of this subsection e. is not applicable to
small wind energy systems.] A wind energy system is irrebuttably presumed to be
at the end of its useful life if the wind energy system generates no
electricity for a period of 540 days and any of the following occur:
            (1)   The owner does not request an extension of the time period
for returning the wind energy system to service under subsection c.
            (2)   The Village denies a request for an extension under
subsection d. and any appeal rights have expired.
         f.   When decommissioning is required, the owner shall begin
decommissioning within 360 days after the wind energy system has reached the
end of its useful life. The owner shall complete decommissioning and removal of
the wind energy system within 540 days after the wind energy system has reached
the end of its useful life.
      2.   Decommissioning Review. The Village may establish a decommissioning
review process to determine when a wind energy system has reached the end of
its useful life.
      3.   Financial Responsibility. [Note: the entirety of this subsection 3.
is not applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         a.   The owner of a wind energy system with a nameplate capacity of
one megawatt or larger shall maintain proof of the owner's ability to fund the
actual and necessary cost to decommission the wind energy system and shall
ensure the availability of funds necessary for decommissioning throughout the
expected life of the wind energy system and through to completion of the
decommissioning activities.
         b.   The owner of a wind energy system with a nameplate capacity of
one megawatt or larger shall provide financial assurance of the owner's ability
to pay for the actual and necessary cost to decommission the wind energy system
before commencing major civil construction activities such as blasting or
foundation construction at the wind energy system site. An owner may comply
with this paragraph by choosing to provide a bond, deposit, escrow account,
irrevocable letter of credit, or some combination of these financial
assurances, that will ensure the availability of funds necessary for
decommissioning throughout the expected life of the wind energy system and
through to completion of the decommissioning activities.
         c.   The owner shall provide the financial assurance under subsection
b. in the amount of the estimated actual and necessary cost to decommission the
wind energy system. The owner shall:
            (1)   Provide the Village three cost estimates of the actual and
necessary cost to decommission the wind energy system prepared by third parties
agreeable to the owner and the Village.
            (2)   Establish financial assurance that places the Village in a
secured position, and provide that any secured funds may only be used for
decommissioning the wind energy system until either the Village determines that
the wind energy system has been decommissioned under subsection 5.b. or until
the Village has otherwise approved the release of the secured funds, whichever
is earlier.
            (3)   Establish financial assurance that allows the Village to
access funds for the purpose of decommissioning the wind energy system if the
owner does not decommission the wind energy system when decommissioning is
required.
         d.   The Village may not require the amount of the financial assurance
to exceed the average of the cost estimates provided.
         e.   The Village’s approval of a wind energy system is conditioned on
the owner's compliance with subsections b. and c.
         f.   During the useful life of a wind energy system, the Village may
periodically request information from the owner regarding the industry costs
for decommissioning the wind energy system. If the Village finds that the
future anticipated cost to decommission the wind energy system is at least ten
percent more or less than the amount of financial assurance previously provided
under subsection b., the Village may correspondingly increase or decrease the
amount of financial assurance required for the wind energy system. The Village
may not adjust the financial assurance under this subsection more often than
once in a five-year period.
         g.   The Village may require an owner to submit to the Village a
substitute financial assurance of the owner's choosing under subsection b. if
an event occurs that raises material concerns regarding the viability of the
existing financial assurance.
      4.   Site Restoration. [Note: the entirety of this subsection 4. is not
applicable to small wind energy systems.]
         a.   Except as provided in subsection b., if a wind energy system was
constructed on land owned by a person other than the owner of the wind energy
system, the owner of the wind energy system shall ensure that the property is
restored to preconstruction condition, unless otherwise provided in a contract
signed by an affected landowner, considering any modifications needed to comply
with DNR requirements.
         b.   If a wind energy system was constructed on a brownfield, as
defined in Wis. Stat. s. 238.13(1)(a), the owner shall restore the property to
eliminate effects caused by the wind energy system, except for the effects of
environmental remediation activities, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 238.13(1)(d).
      5.   Decommissioning Completion.
         a.   An owner shall file a notice of decommissioning completion with
the Village and the commission when a wind energy system approved by the
Village has been decommissioned and removed.
         b.   Within 360 days of receiving a notice of decommissioning, the
Village shall determine whether the owner has satisfied the requirements of
subsections 1.a. and 4.
   O.   Application and Notice Procedures.
      1.   It is recommended, but not required, that the applicant meet with
the Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector and Public Works Director prior to
submitting an application for a wind energy system, to discuss filing
requirements, application formats, timelines, permits from outside agencies,
the handling of confidential information, and fees.
      2.   Application Required. An owner shall file an application to
construct a wind energy system with the Village in conformance with the
Application Filing Requirements developed by the PSC as provided in Wis. Admin.
Code s. PSC 128.50 and published on the PSC website. The owner shall ensure
that the information contained in the application is accurate, and shall file
the number of paper and electronic copies required by the Village for review
and for availability to the public. The application shall include all of the
following:
         a.   Wind energy system description and maps showing the locations of
all proposed wind energy facilities.
         b.   Technical description of wind turbines and wind turbine sites.
         c.   Timeline and process for constructing the wind energy system.
         d.   Information regarding anticipated impact of the wind energy
system on local infrastructure.
         e.   Information regarding noise anticipated to be attributable to the
wind energy system.
         f.   Information regarding shadow flicker anticipated to be
attributable to the wind energy system.
         g.   Information regarding the anticipated effects of the wind energy
system on existing land uses within 0.5 mile of the wind energy system. [Note:
For small wind energy systems, the required information is limited to the
effect on parcels adjacent to the wind energy system.]
         h.   Information regarding the anticipated effects of the wind energy
system on airports and airspace.
         i.   Information regarding the anticipated effects of the wind energy
system on line-of-sight communications.
         j.   A list of all state and federal permits required to construct and
operate the wind energy system.
         k.   Information regarding the planned use and modification of roads
within the Village during the construction, operation, and decommissioning of
the wind energy system, including a process for assessing road damage caused by
wind energy system activities and for conducting road repairs at the owner's
expense.
         l.   A copy of all emergency plans developed in collaboration with
appropriate first responders under Wis. Admin. Code s. PSC 128.18(4)(b). An
owner may file plans using confidential filing procedures as necessary. [Note:
Not required for small wind energy systems.]
         m.   A decommissioning and site restoration plan providing reasonable
assurances that the owner will be able to comply with Wis. Admin. Code s. PSC
128.19. [Note: Not required for small wind energy systems.]
         n.   A representative copy of all notices issued under subsection 3.
and Wis. Admin. Code ss. PSC 128.105(1)(a) and 128.42(1).
         o.   A copy of all non-binding recommendations about whether the owner
has consulted with and received any non-binding recommendations for
constructing, operating or decommissioning the wind energy system from a state
or federal agency, and whether the owner has incorporated such non-binding
recommendations into the design of the wind energy system. [Note: Not required
for small wind energy systems.]
         p.   Specification of whether nonparticipating landowners will receive
annual monetary compensation pursuant to section Q, including the criteria for
determination of which nonparticipating landowners will receive the
compensation, how the payments will be modified annually, and a representative
copy of the agreements. [Note: Not required for small wind energy systems.]
         q.   Description of the use of aerial spraying for pest control or
seeding at project farm area operations, the impacts of the proposed wind
energy system on the spraying, and the potential mitigation of the impacts,
including monetary compensation, as set forth in section Q. [Note: Not required
for small wind energy systems.]
         r.   The proposed form of the annual report required under section Q.
         s.   Potential shared revenue and community benefits set forth in Wis.
Stat. ch. 79.
         t.   Any other information necessary to understand the construction,
operation or decommissioning of the proposed wind energy system.
    3.   Notice to Property Owners and Residents.
         a.   On the same day an owner files an application for a wind energy
system, the owner shall, under Wis. Stat. s. 66.0401(4)(a)3, use commercially
reasonable methods to provide written notice of the filing of the application
to property owners and residents located within one mile of the proposed
location of any wind energy system facility. . [Note: For small wind energy
systems, the required notice shall be provided only to the property owners and
residents of the parcels adjacent to the wind energy system.] The notification
shall include all of the following:
            (1)   A complete description of the wind energy system, including
the number and size of the wind turbines.
            (2)   A map showing the locations of all proposed wind energy
system facilities.
            (3)   The proposed timeline for construction and operation of the
wind energy system.
            (4)   Locations where the application is available for public
review.
            (5)   Owner contact information.
         b.   After the Village receives an application for a wind energy
system, the Village shall publish a Class 1 Notice as set forth in Wis. Stat.
s. 66.0401(4)(a)1 and Wis. Admin. Code. s. PSC 128.30(4)(b) stating that an
application for approval has been filed with the Village that includes a brief
description of the proposed wind energy system and its proposed location, the
locations where the application is available for public review, the method and
time period for the submission of public comments to the Village, and the
approximate schedule for review of the application by the Village.
      4.   Public Participation.
         a.   The Village shall make an application for a wind energy system
available for public review at the Rochester Public Library and the Village
Hall, and may publish it on the Village website.
         b.   The Village shall accept written comments by letter and by
electronic mail, and shall provide them to the Plan Commission for
consideration at the public hearing required in subsection c. hereunder and
Section
35-100.
         c.   The Village shall hold the public hearing required in Section
35-100 to obtain comments on and to inform the public about a proposed wind
energy system, at which the Plan Commission shall also consider the written
comments received. [Note: A public hearing for small wind energy systems is
optional under Wis. Admin. Code s. PSC 128.61(8), but is required by Section
35-100 of this Code.]
      5.   Joint application review process. If the wind energy system is
proposed to be located in more than one political subdivision with jurisdiction
over the wind energy system, the provisions of Wis. Admin. Code s. 128.30(7)
will apply and the procedures set forth herein may be modified pursuant to that
section.
   P.   Application Completeness and Time Limits.
      1.   An application is complete if it meets the filing requirements under
this Section.
      2.   The Village shall determine the completeness of an application, and
shall notify the owner in writing of the completeness determination, no later
than 45 days after the day the application is filed. An application is
considered filed the day the owner notifies the political subdivision in
writing that all the application materials have been filed. If a political
subdivision determines that the application is incomplete, the notice provided
to the owner shall state the reasons for the determination.
      3.   An owner may file a supplement to an application that the Village
has determined to be incomplete. There is no limit to the number of times that
an owner may re-file an application. For incomplete applications, the owner
shall provide additional information as specified in the notice under
subsection 2.
      4.   An additional 45-day completeness review period shall begin the day
after the Village receives responses to all items identified in the notice
under subsection 2.
      5.   If the Village does not make a completeness determination within the
applicable review period, the application is considered to be complete.
      6.   Requests for additional information. The Village may request
additional information necessary to understand the wind energy system after
determining that an application is complete. An owner shall provide additional
information in response to all reasonable requests. An owner shall respond to
all inquiries made subsequent to a determination of completeness in a timely,
complete, and accurate manner.
   Q.   Village Review and Approval of a Wind Energy System.
      1.   Standard for Approval. The Village may not unreasonably deny an
application for a wind energy system or impose unreasonable conditions,
provided, however, that the Village shall impose the following conditions on
approval of wind energy systems:
         a.   Permits. For all wind energy systems, the owner shall submit to
the Village copies of all necessary state and federal permits and approvals.
         b.   For all wind energy systems that are not classified as small wind
energy systems:
            (1)   Studies. The owner shall cooperate with any study of the
effects of wind energy systems coordinated by a state agency.
            (2)   Monetary compensation. The owner of a wind energy system
shall offer an agreement that includes annual monetary compensation to the
owner of a nonparticipating residence, if the residence is located within 0.5
mile of a constructed wind turbine. For one turbine located within 0.5 mile of
a nonparticipating residence, the initial annual monetary compensation may not
exceed $600. For two turbines located within 0.5 mile of a nonparticipating
residence, the initial annual monetary compensation may not exceed $800. For
three or more turbines located within 0.5 mile of a nonparticipating residence,
the initial annual monetary compensation may not exceed $1,000. The initial
annual monetary compensation under this subsection shall apply to agreements
entered into in 2011. For agreements entered into in 2012 and thereafter, the
initial annual amounts shall increase each year by the greater of two percent
or the increase in the Consumer Price Index, as described in Wis. Stat. s.
196.374(5)(bm)2.b., from the previous year. An agreement offered under this
subsection shall specify in writing any waiver of a requirement or right under
this Section and whether the landowner's acceptance of payment establishes the
landowner's property as a participating property under this chapter.
            (3)   Aerial spraying. The owner of a wind energy system shall
offer an agreement that includes monetary compensation to a farm operator
farming on a nonparticipating property located within 0.5 mile of a constructed
wind turbine if the farm operator demonstrates all of the following:
               (a)   Substantial evidence of a history, before the wind energy
system owner gives notice under section E, of using aerial spraying for pest
control or disease prevention for growing potatoes, peas, snap beans or sweet
corn on all or part of a farm field located within 0.5 mile of a constructed
wind turbine.
               (b)   A material reduction in potato, pea, snap bean or sweet
corn production or a material increase in application costs on all or part of a
farm field located within 0.5 mile of a constructed wind turbine as a result of
the wind energy system's effect on aerial spraying practices.
            (4)   Annual reports. The owner shall be required to file an annual
report with the Village documenting the operation and maintenance of the wind
energy system during the previous calendar year.
      2.   Written Decision.
         a.   The Village shall issue a written decision to grant or deny an
application for a wind energy system. The written decision shall include
findings of fact supported by evidence in the record. If an application is
denied, the decision shall specify the reason for the denial. Approval is
subject to the conditions set forth in this Section.
         b.   The Village shall provide its written decision to the owner and
to the commission. If the Village approves an application for a wind energy
system, the Village shall provide the owner with a duplicate original of the
decision. The owner shall record the duplicate original of a decision approving
an application with the register of deeds for Racine County
      3.   Effect of ownership change on approval. Approval by the Village of a
wind energy system remains in effect if there is a change in the owner of the
wind energy system. An owner shall provide timely notice of any change in the
owner of the wind energy system to the Village.
      4.   Fees.
         a.   The owner shall pay the fee adopted by the Village Board and set
forth in the Fee Schedule. The fee shall consist of a reasonable application
fee and a requirement that the owner reimburse the Village for reasonable
expenses relating to the review and processing of the application for a wind
energy system. The fee and reimbursement requirement shall be based on the
actual and necessary cost of the review of the wind energy system application,
and may include the cost of services necessary to review an application that
are provided by outside engineers, attorneys, planners, environmental
specialists, and other consultants or experts. The Village may by ordinance set
standardized application fees based on the size and complexity of a proposed
wind energy system.
         b.   The Village may require the owner of a wind energy system to
submit up to 50 percent of the total estimated amount of the estimated
reimbursement of for the wind energy system application review under subsection
a before issuing a written decision under subsection 2 if the Village gives
written notice to the owner of its intent to do so within ten days of the date
the application is deemed complete and the notice contains an estimate of the
amount of the fee and the relevant reimbursement requirements.
         c.   The Village may not charge an owner an annual fee or other
recurring fees to operate or maintain a wind energy system.
   R.   Record of Decision.
      1.   Recordkeeping.
         a.   The Village shall keep a complete written record of its decision-
making relating to an application for a wind energy system.
         b.   if the Village denies an application, the Village shall keep the
record for at least 7 years following the year in which it issues the decision.
         c.   If the Village approves an application, the Village shall keep
the record for at least 7 years after the year in which the wind energy system
is decommissioned.
      2.   Record Contents. The record of a decision shall include all of the
following:
         a.   The approved application and all additions or amendments to the
application.
         b.   A representative copy of all notices issued under this Section.
         c.   A copy of any notice or correspondence that the Village issues
related to the application.
         d.   A record of any public meeting and any hearing related to the
application. The record may be an electronic recording, a transcript prepared
from an electronic recording, or a transcript prepared by a court reporter or
stenographer. The record shall include any documents or evidence submitted by
meeting or hearing participants.
         e.   Copies of any correspondence or evidentiary material that the
Village considered in relation to the application, including copies of all
written public comments filed with the Village.
         f.   Minutes of any Village Board, Plan Commission or other committee
meetings held to consider or act on the application.
         g.   A copy of the written decision.
         h.   Other materials that the Village prepared to document its
decision-making process.
         i.   A copy of any Village ordinance cited in or applicable to the
decision.
      3.   Post-construction filing requirement. Within 90 days of the date a
wind energy system commences operation, the owner shall file with the Village
and the commission an as-built description of the wind energy system, an
accurate map of the wind energy system showing the location of all wind energy
system facilities, geographic information system information showing the
location of all wind energy system facilities and current information
identifying the owner of the wind energy system. An owner shall in the filings
under this subsection label each wind turbine location with a unique identifier
consistent with the information posted at the wind turbine location under Wis.
Admin. Code s. PSC 128.18(1)(g). [Note: Not required for small wind energy
systems.]
   S.   Modifications to an Approved Wind Energy System.
      1.   Material Change.
         a.   An owner may not make a material change in the approved design,
location or construction of a wind energy system without the prior written
approval of the Village.
         b.   An owner shall submit an application for a material change to an
approved wind energy system to the Village.
      2.   Review Limited.
         a.   When the Village receives an application for a material change to
a wind energy system under subsection 1.b., it may not reopen the merits of the
earlier approval but shall consider only those issues relevant to the proposed
change.
         b.   An application for a material change is subject to sections O.2.
(intro) and O.2.o., O.3., O.4.a. and b., O.5, P., Q. and R.
         c.   An application for a material change shall contain information
necessary to understand the material change.
         d.   The Village may hold at least one public meeting to obtain
comments on and to inform the public about a proposed material change to an
approved wind energy system.
   T.   Monitoring Compliance. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy
systems.]
      1.   Monitoring Procedure. The Village may establish a procedure to
monitor compliance by the owner with any condition on an approved wind energy
system or to assess when wind energy system facilities are not maintained in
good repair and operating condition. The procedure may include timelines,
provide for payment of reasonable fees for conducting an assessment, and
provide for notification to the public.
      2.   Third-party Inspector During Construction. The Village may require
an owner to pay a reasonable fee for a third-party inspector to monitor and
report to the Village regarding the owner's compliance with permit requirements
during construction. An inspector monitoring compliance under this subsection
shall also report to a state permitting authority upon the state permitting
authority's request.
   U.   Complaint Process.
      1.   Making a Complaint.
         a.   An aggrieved person may make a complaint regarding failure by an
owner to comply with an obligation under this Section.
         b.   A complaint under subsection a. shall be made first to the owner
of the wind energy system pursuant to a complaint resolution process developed
by the owner.
         c.   A complainant may petition the Village for review of a complaint
that is not resolved within 45 days of the day the owner receives the original
complaint.
         d.   The Village's decision under subsection c. is subject to PSC
review under Wis. Stat. s. 66.0401(5).
      2.   Complaint Resolution.
         a.   An owner shall use reasonable efforts to resolve complaints
regarding a wind energy system and shall investigate complaints regarding a
wind energy system at the owner's expense.
         b.   For wind energy systems not classified as small wind energy
systems:
            (1)   Upon receipt of a complaint, an owner shall provide the
complainant with a copy of the notice described in subsection 4. Within 30 days
of receiving a complaint, an owner shall provide an initial response to the
complainant.
            (2)   An owner shall make a good faith effort to resolve complaints
within 45 days of receiving a complaint. An owner shall notify the Village of
complaints that have not been resolved within 45 days of the date the owner
received the original complaint.
            (3)   An owner shall maintain a log of all complaints received
regarding the wind energy system. The owner shall include in the log the name
and address of each complainant, the nature of each complaint, and the steps
taken to resolve each complaint. An owner shall provide a copy of a complaint
log monthly, at no cost, either to a monitoring committee established under
subsection U.3. or, if a monitoring committee has not been established, to the
Village. An owner shall make any complaint log available to the commission upon
request.
            (4)   An owner shall develop a complaint resolution process that is
consistent with this subsection.
      3.   Monitoring Committee. [Note: Not applicable to small wind energy
systems.]
         a.   Committee. Except as provided in subsection c., the Village may
establish a monitoring committee to oversee resolution of complaints regarding
a wind energy system. A monitoring committee shall include on the committee a
member who is a local employee of an owner of a wind energy system and, if in
existence, at least one nonparticipating landowner residing in the Village
within 0.5 mile of a wind turbine that is located in the Village.
         b.   Duties. A monitoring committee established under subsection a.
may do any of the following:
            (1)   Maintain a record of all complaints brought to it.
            (2)   Require the owner to provide the committee with information
regarding the owner's response to any complaint forwarded to the owner by the
committee.
            (3)   Recommend to the Village a reasonable resolution to a
complaint based upon the information gathered by the committee.
         c.   Multiple Jurisdictions. If a wind energy system is located in
more than one political subdivision with jurisdiction over the wind energy
system and multiple political subdivisions decide to establish a monitoring
committee, the political subdivisions shall jointly establish a single
monitoring committee to oversee resolution of complaints regarding the wind
energy system.
      4.   Notice to Property Owners and Residents. [Note: Not applicable to
small wind energy systems.]
         a.   Notice of Process for Making Complaints. Before construction of a
wind energy system begins, an owner shall provide written notice of the process
for making complaints and obtaining mitigation measures to all residents and
landowners within 0.5 mile of any wind energy system facility. An owner shall
include in the notice the requirements under subsection 1 for submitting a
complaint to the owner, a petition for review to the Village, and an appeal to
the commission, and shall include a contact person and telephone number for the
owner for receipt of complaints or concerns during construction, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning.
         b.   Notice to Village. An owner shall provide a copy of the notice
under subsection a. to the Village and any political subdivision with
jurisdiction over the wind energy system, and the owner shall keep the contact
person and telephone number current and on file with the Village and the
political subdivision.
   V.   Commission Review. Appeals to the PSC shall follow the procedures set
forth in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0401(5) and Wis. Admin. Code ch. PSC subch. V. In the
event of remand to the Village, the Village shall abide by the time frames for
review set forth in the commission’s order.
35-150 TOWER REGULATIONS.
   A.   Intent. It is intended that mobile service facilities and radio
broadcast service facilities be regulated hereunder by conditional use permit
for the public health and safety. Reports from multiple studies gathered by the
National Institute of Health have found links between radiofrequency
electromagnetic fields and negative health effects, but also reflect that the
scientific community is split as to whether prolonged radiofrequency exposure
is dangerous to human health. Until such time as exposure to electromagnetic
radiation is proven safe, the Village Board presumes that human health is
affected by the placement of towers and antennas from which exposure may occur.
In addition, towers that contain the mobile and broadcast facilities may
collapse and cause catastrophic damage to Village citizens and property. The
regulations herein reflect the minimum practical regulation that is necessary
to accomplish the protection of the public.
   B.   Definitions.
      “Antenna” means communications equipment that transmits and receives
radio waves or electromagnetic radio signals and is used in the provision of
mobile services or radio broadcast services.
      “Application” means an application for a permit under this section to
engage in an activity specified as new construction or substantial modification
of mobile service facilities or radio broadcast facilities or a class 2
collocation.
      “Building Permit” means any applicable permit issued by the Building
Inspector that authorizes an applicant to conduct construction activity that is
consistent with the Village Building, Plumbing, Electrical and Mechanical Code,
Chapter 11 of this Municipal Code.
      “Class 1 Collocation” means the placement of a new mobile service
facility or radio broadcast service facility on an existing support structure
such that the owner of the facility does not need to construct a free standing
support structure for the facility but does need to engage in substantial
modification.
      “Class 2 Collocation” means the placement of a new mobile service
facility or radio broadcast service facility on an existing support structure
such that the owner of the facility does not need to construct a free standing
support structure for the facility or engage in substantial modification.
      “Collocation” means class 1 or class 2 collocation or both.
      “Distributed Antenna System” means a network of spatially separated
antenna nodes that is connected to a common source via a transport medium and
that provides mobile service within a geographic area or structure.
      “Equipment Compound” means an area surrounding or adjacent to the base of
an existing support structure within which is located mobile service facilities
or radio broadcast service facilities.
      “Existing Structure” means a support structure that exists at the time a
request for permission to place mobile service facilities on a support
structure is filed with the Village.
      “Fall Zone” means the area over which a mobile support structure or radio
broadcast tower or antenna is designed to collapse.
      “Mobile Service” has the meaning given in 47 USC 153 (33).
      “Mobile Service Facility” means the set of equipment and network
components, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling, and associated equipment, that is necessary to provide
mobile service to a discrete geographic area, but does not include the
underlying support structure.
      “Mobile Service Provider” means a person who provides mobile service.
      “Mobile Service Support Structure” means a freestanding structure that is
designed to support a mobile service facility.
      “Permit” means a Conditional Use Permit or Zoning Permit required by this
section which authorizes any of the following activities by an applicant:
         1.   A class 1 collocation.
         2.   A class 2 collocation.
         3.   The construction of a mobile service support structure.
         4.   The construction of a radio broadcast service facility.
      “Public Utility” has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 196.01(5).
      “Radio Broadcast Services” means the regular provision of a commercial or
noncommercial service involving the transmission, emission, or reception of
radio waves for the transmission of sound or images in which the transmissions
are intended for direct reception by the general public.
      “Radio Broadcast Service Facilities” means commercial or noncommercial
facilities, including antennas and antenna support structures, intended for the
provision of radio broadcast services.
      “Search Ring” means a shape drawn on a map to indicate the general area
within which a support structure should be located to meet radio frequency
engineering requirements, taking into account other factors including
topography and the demographics of the service area.
      “Substantial Modification” means the modification of a support structure,
including the mounting of an antenna on such a structure that does any of the
following:
         1.   For structures with an overall height of 200 feet or less,
increases the overall height of the structure by more than 20 feet, except it
shall not be considered a substantial modification if a greater height is
necessary to avoid interference with an existing antenna.
         2.   For structures with an overall height of more than 200 feet,
increases the overall height of the structure by 10 percent or more, except it
shall not be considered a substantial modification if a greater height is
necessary to avoid interference with an existing antenna.
         3.   Measured at the level of the appurtenance added to the structure
as a result of the modification, increases the width of the support structure
by 20 feet or more, unless a larger area is necessary for collocation, or
unless a greater protrusion is necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the existing structure by cable.
         4.   Increases the square footage of an existing equipment compound to
a total area of more than 2,500 square feet.
      “Support Structure” means an existing or new structure that supports or
can support a mobile service facility, including a mobile service support
structure, utility pole, water tower, building, or other structure, or a radio
broadcast antenna support structure.
      “Tower Facility” means the support structure for mobile services or radio
broadcast services.
      “Utility Pole” means a structure owned or operated by an alternative
telecommunications utility, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 196.01(1d); public
utility, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 196.01(5); telecommunications utility, as
defined in Wis. Stat. s. 196.01(10); political subdivision; or cooperative
association organized under Wis. Stat. ch. 185; and that is designed
specifically for and used to carry lines, cables, or wires for
telecommunications service, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 182.017(1g)(cq); for
video service, as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 66.0420 (2)(y); for electricity; or
to provide light.
   C.   Applicability.
      1.   Facilities Regulated. The following facilities are subject to the
regulations set forth in this Section and in section
35-151, Tower Site Standards:
         a.   New mobile service support structures and radio broadcast service
support structures require conditional use permits.
         b.   Class 1 collocations that involve the substantial modification of
an existing support structure, mobile service facilities, and radio broadcast
service facilities require conditional use permits.
         c.   Class 2 collocations are permitted uses, require zoning permits,
and are subject to the provisions set forth in subsection F.
      2.   Regulation. No installation or construction of the facilities
regulated by this section are permitted except as provided in this section and
Section
35-151, Tower Site Standards.
   D.   Location.
      1.   Mobile Service Support Structures. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0404
(4)(c), the Village may not prohibit the placement of a mobile service support
structure in particular locations in the Village.
      2.   Radio Broadcast Facilities. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0406(4),
the Village may only deny the placement, construction or modification of radio
broadcast service facilities in the Village for public health or safety
concerns; therefore, pursuant to the intent of this Section set forth in
subsection A, radio broadcast service facilities regulated by this Section,
except amateur or citizen band towers that do not transmit a constant signal,
shall not be located in any residential zoning district.
   E.   Submission Requirements for New or Substantial Modifications of
Facilities and Support Structures. The siting and construction standards for
new or substantial modifications of mobile support structures and facilities
and new or substantially modified radio broadcast service facilities are set
forth in s.
35-151. Pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss. 66.0404 and 66.0406, the Village is limited
in its regulation of such structures. In the event that said statutes are
amended or repealed, the construction or modification of such structures shall
be required to abide by the requirements set forth in s.
35-22, Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects, and s.
35-100, Conditional Uses of this Code if those requirements are allowed. While
said statutes are in effect, notwithstanding the requirements found in ss.
35-22 and
35-100, the applicant shall only be required to supply the following
information in its application for a zoning permit and conditional use permit
under this section, but shall be required to meet the requirements set forth in
s.
35-151, Tower Site Standards:
      1.   The application shall be in writing and shall contain all of the
following information:
         a.   The name and business address of, and the contact individual for,
the applicant.
         b.   The location of the proposed or affected support structure.
         c.   The location of the proposed mobile service facility or radio
broadcast service facility.
         d.   If the application is to substantially modify an existing support
structure, a construction plan which describes the proposed modifications to
the support structure and the equipment and network components, including
antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and
related equipment associated with the proposed modifications.
         e.   If the application is to construct a new mobile service support
or radio broadcast support structure, a construction plan which describes the
proposed support structure and the equipment and network components, including
antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and
related equipment to be placed on or around the new support structure.
         f.   If an application is to construct a new mobile support structure,
an explanation as to why the applicant chose the proposed location and why the
applicant did not choose collocation, including a sworn statement from an
individual who has responsibility over the placement of the support structure
attesting that collocation within the applicant’s search ring would not result
in the same mobile service functionality, coverage, and capacity; is
technically infeasible; or is economically burdensome to the service provider.
      2.   If an applicant submits an application for a permit hereunder which
contains all of the information required under subsection 1, the application
shall be considered complete. If the application is incomplete, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing, within 10 days of
receiving the application, that the application is not complete. The written
notification shall specify in detail the required information that was
incomplete. An applicant may resubmit an application as often as necessary
until it is complete.
      3.   Within 90 days of its receipt of a complete application, the Village
shall complete all of the following or the applicant may consider the
application approved, except that the applicant and the Village may agree in
writing to an extension of the 90 day period:
         a.   Review the application to determine whether it complies with all
applicable aspects of the Building, Plumbing, Electrical and Mechanical Code
and, subject to the limitations in this section, this Chapter.
         b.   Make a final decision whether to approve or disapprove the
application.
         c.   Notify the applicant, in writing, of its final decision.
         d.   If the decision is to disapprove the application, include with
the written notification substantial evidence which supports the decision.
      4.   The Village may disapprove an application if an applicant refuses to
evaluate the feasibility of collocation within the applicant’s search ring and
provide the sworn statement described under subsection 1.f.
      5.   If an applicant provides the Village with an engineering
certification showing that a mobile service support structure, a radio
broadcast service facility structure, or an existing structure, is designed to
collapse within a smaller area than the set back or fall zone area required in
s.
35-151, that requirement does not apply to such a structure unless the Village
provides the applicant with substantial evidence that the engineering
certification is flawed.
   F.   Collocation on Existing Support Structures.
      1.   A class 2 collocation is a permitted use and does not require a
conditional use permit, but is regulated as follows:
         a.   A class 2 collocation is subject to the building permit
requirements set forth in this Municipal Code.
         b.   If an applicant submits an application for a permit to engage in
a class 2 collocation, the zoning application shall be in writing and shall
contain all of the following information:
            (1)   The name and business address of, and the contact individual
for, the applicant.
            (2)   The location of the affected support structure.
            (3)   The location of the proposed mobile service facility or radio
broadcast service facility.
         c.   The Village shall consider an application containing the
information required in subsection b. complete.
         d.   If any of the required information is not in the application, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing, within five days of
receiving the application, that the application is not complete. The written
notification shall specify in detail the required information that was
incomplete. An applicant may resubmit an application as often as necessary
until it is complete.
         e.   Within 45 days of its receipt of a complete application, the
Village shall complete all of the following or the applicant may consider the
application approved, except that the applicant and the Village may agree in
writing to an extension of the 45 day period:
            (1)   Make a final decision whether to approve or disapprove the
application.
            (2)   Notify the applicant, in writing, of its final decision.
            (3)   If the application is approved, issue the applicant the
relevant zoning permit.
            (4)   If the decision is to disapprove the application, include
with the written notification substantial evidence which supports the decision.
   G.   Limitations. The Village is subject to the following statutory
limitations when reviewing the applications for conditional use permits and/or
zoning permits for the placement, construction or substantial modification of
mobile service facilities or Class 2 collocations:
      1.   No application shall be disapproved based solely on aesthetic
concerns.
      2.   No environmental testing, sampling, or monitoring requirements, or
other compliance measures for radio frequency emissions may be required.
      3.   No regulation of radio frequency signal strength or the adequacy of
mobile service quality is allowed.
      4.   The placement of emergency power systems may not be prohibited, and
backup battery power may not be required.
      5.   The Village may not require that a support structure be placed on
property owned by the Village.
      6.   No application may be disapproved based solely on the height of the
tower structure or on whether the structure requires lighting, and the height
of the structure may not be limited to under 200 feet.
      7.   Approval of an application shall not be conditioned on the agreement
of the owner to provide space on or near the structure for the use of or by the
Village at less than the market rate, or to provide the Village other services
via the structure or facilities at less than the market rate, nor permitting
the Village to place at or collocate mobile service facilities provided or
operated by the Village or its entities or interests.
      8.   The applicant may not be required to construct a distributed antenna
system instead of a new tower structure or engaging in collocation.
      9.   The application may not be disapproved because the Village has
assessed that other locations may be suitable for conducting the activity.
      10.   The applicant may not be required to indemnify or insure the
Village in connection with the Village’s exercise of its authority to approve
the application.
   H.   Fees.
      1.   Permits. The fees for Conditional Use Permits and Zoning Permits
required hereunder shall be set by the Village Board and reflected in the Fee
Schedule, provided, however, that pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0404(4)(d), the
fee for a Conditional Use Permit required under subsection C.1.a. or b. shall
not exceed $3,000 and the fee for a Zoning Permit required under subsection
C.1.c. shall not exceed the cost of the Building Permit or $500, whichever is
less. No recurring fee is allowed.
      2.   Technical review. In the event the Plan Commission determines that
it is necessary to consult with a third party in considering an application,
all reasonable costs and expenses associated with such consultation shall be
borne by the applicant, but the applicant shall not be required to pay travel
expenses of the consultant. Failure to pay such costs and expenses or provide
information required under this Section shall be grounds for denial or
revocation of a permit. The applicant may provide to the Plan Commission the
names of consultants which the applicant believes are qualified to assist in
resolving the issues before the Plan Commission.
   I.   Abandonment.
      1.   Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of
12 months shall be considered abandoned. In such circumstances, the owner of
such antenna or tower or owner(s) of the property where the tower or antenna is
located shall remove said antenna and/or tower including all supporting
equipment, buildings, and foundations to a depth of five feet, and shall
restore the location to its natural condition (except that any landscaping and
grading may remain in the after-condition as determined by the Zoning
Administrator) within 90 days of receipt of notice from the Zoning
Administrator. If removal and restoration to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Administrator does not occur within the said 90 days, the Zoning Administrator
may remove and salvage said antenna/tower and all supporting equipment and
buildings, and restore the site at the antenna/tower owner's or property
owner's expense.
      2.   Security for Removal. The applicant shall provide to the Village,
prior to the issuance of the conditional use permit, a surety in a form
acceptable to the Village in the amount of $20,000.00 to guarantee that the
tower and all supporting equipment, buildings and foundations will be removed
when no longer in operation. The Village must be named as the beneficiary of
the surety, and the terms of the surety must provide that the Village will be
given notice if the surety provider cancels the surety. If, prior to the
removal of the tower, tower removal rates exceed $20,000.00, the Village
reserves the right to impose a special charge on the property in the event that
the Village is required to remove the facilities.
   J.   Expiration of Permits; Continued Compliance.
      1.   A permit issued hereunder shall not expire, provided that the permit
holder shall remain in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      2.   Upon written inquiry by the Plan Commission, the permit holder under
this section shall present credible evidence of the continued compliance with
the conditional use permit. Failure to establish compliance with the
conditional use permit shall be grounds for the revocation of the permit. All
reasonable costs and expenses associated with such consultation shall be borne
by the holder of the permit. Failure to pay such costs and expenses or provide
information requested by the Plan Commission shall be grounds for revocation of
the permit. The holder of the permit may provide to the Plan Commission the
names of consultants which the permit holder believes are qualified to assist
in resolving the issues before the Plan Commission.
   K.   Village Not Responsible. The Village does not warrant any tower against
design or structural failure. The Village does not certify that the design is
adequate for any tower and the Village hereby accepts no liability through the
issuance of a conditional use permit or zoning permit.
   L.   Coordination Between Village Departments. The Zoning Administrator
shall coordinate with Building Inspector to ensure that all required time
limits set forth in this Section are met.
   M.   Appeal. A party who is aggrieved by the final decision of the Village
may bring an action in Racine County Circuit Court.
35-151 TOWER SITE STANDARDS
   A.   Purpose. The site standards for tower facilities set forth in this
section are to ensure site construction and development in a manner which will
result in an appearance compatible with permitted uses in the zoning district
and to protect adjacent property from safety hazards such as tower failure or
falling ice.
   B.   Site Size and Tower Setbacks.
      1   Conditional use status shall not be granted to towers unless the
tower is located so that there is sufficient radius of clear land around the
tower so that its collapse shall be completely contained on the property,
subject to the following. Except as provided in subsection 2., below, if an
applicant provides the Village with engineering certification showing that the
tower is designed to collapse within a smaller area than the radius equal to
the height of the tower, the smaller area shall be used unless the Village has
and provides to the applicant substantial evidence that the engineering
certification is flawed.
      2.   Any tower that is constructed on or adjacent to a parcel of land on
which single-family residential use is permitted shall be setback from every
lot line of a parcel for which single-family residential use is permitted by a
distance that equals or exceeds the height of the tower.
   C.   Guy setback.
      1.   For a guyed structure, the site shall be of a size and shape
sufficient to provide an adequate setback from a guy anchor to any property
line abutting a residential district, public property or public street.
      2.   A site with a guyed structure shall provide:
         a.   A setback of at least 25 feet between a guy anchor and any
property line abutting a residential district, public property or street; and
         b.   A setback equal to or exceeding the rear yard setback required
for the adjoining property where the adjoining property is not a public
property or street, nor in a residential district.
      3.   A guy anchor may be located on an adjoining property when:
         a.   Written authorization from the adjoining property owner is
provided at the time of application for conditional use approval; and
         b.   The guy anchor meets the requirements of subsection 2., above, as
to all other adjoining property lines.
   D.   Setbacks for Accessory Uses. Setbacks for all accessory structures and
uses shall be at least as great as the required yards of the underlying zone
for accessory structures. Accessory structures shall be limited to 15 feet in
height.
   E.   Tower Appearance and Illumination.
      1.   For towers not regulated by the Wisconsin Department of
Transportation Bureau of Aeronautics or the Federal Aviation Administration, a
surface paint or finish shall be used that reduces the visibility of the tower.
      2.   Facility structures and equipment, including supporting structures,
shall be located, designed and screened to blend with the existing natural or
built surroundings so as to reduce visual impacts.
   F.   Landscaping. Landscaping of the site which abuts or is visible from
streets, residences, public parks or areas with access to the general public
other than the owner of the adjoining property, in order to mitigate the
aesthetic and visual impacts of the tower, is suggested but not required.
   G.   Site development, Roads and Parking.
      1.   A minimum of one parking space shall be provided on each site. On
sites with personnel routinely in attendance, additional parking spaces may be
required by the Plan Commission.
      2.   All sites must be served by a minimum 30-foot wide easement with a
turnaround. The Plan Commission may modify the easement and turnaround
requirement. All sites shall use existing access points and roads whenever
possible.
   H.   Use of existing structures. A tower or antenna may locate on an
existing alternative support structure such as a clock tower, steeple, silo,
light pole, building, water tower or similar structure provided that towers
located on roofs shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the roof surface of a
building and shall be secured from the remaining area to prevent unauthorized
access. The towers and antenna(s) shall be painted or otherwise treated to
match the exterior of the structure.
   I.   Compatibility.
      1.   Compatible with adjacent land. The uses, values and enjoyment of
other Village property in the neighborhood for purposes already permitted shall
be in no foreseeable manner substantially impaired or diminished by the
establishment, maintenance or operation of the conditional use.
      2.   Welfare. The establishment, maintenance or operation of the
conditional use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, morals, comfort or general welfare.
      3.   Not impede surrounding property development and improvement. The
establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of the surrounding Village property for uses
permitted in the district.
   J.   Aesthetic requirements. All towers shall comply with the following
aesthetic standards:
      1.   Towers shall be a monopole design, except as follows. The Plan
Commission may require a stealth design to minimize the adverse aesthetic
impact in particular locations when the Plan Commission finds it is necessary
to do so to ensure compliance with the standards of this ordinance. The Plan
Commission may allow an alternative design preferred by an applicant on a case
by case basis upon finding that the standards of this ordinance can be met with
the alternative design and there are no substantial adverse aesthetic impacts
of doing so in the location and height proposed.
      2.   In areas where facilities are currently nonexistent or underground,
undergrounding of transmission lines related to the tower is required.
      3.   No new above ground structures, including co-locations on existing
structures, shall be placed within 500 feet of structures recognized as
historic by the State of Wisconsin or the U.S. Department of the Interior. The
500-foot separation is waived for installations that are completely concealed
from view, or are not visible from locations where the historic structure can
be observed.
      4.   Attachments to existing structures shall be designed to be flush
with the existing structure as much as can reasonably be done, shall be a color
that matches the existing structure and shall be the smallest size possible to
reasonably accommodate the intended purpose. If the structure to which the
attachment is made changes color due to repainting, resurfacing or other means,
the attachment shall be modified to match the new color.
      5.   Any party objecting to the requirements of this subsection 35-151 J.
shall have an opportunity to demonstrate that the requirement constitutes an
effective prohibition in violation of state or federal law, upon application to
the Village Board, and the Village Board shall waive the requirement if it
finds the standard to effectively prohibit the expansion of wireless technology
in the Village or otherwise violates state or federal law.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-13-2021)
35-160 TRAFFIC, PARKING AND ACCESS
   A.   Vision Clearance at Intersections.
      1.   Corner lot. On a corner lot in any district, no obstructions, such
as structures, parking or vegetation, shall be erected, placed, planted or
allowed to grow to impede vision between a height of two feet and 10 feet above
the curbline grade in the vision clearance triangle.
      2.   Dimensions.
         a.   Definitions. In this subsection:
            (1)   The “vision distance lines” are:
               (a)   At the intersection of two public or private streets, the
lines extending a designated length from the intersection of the streets along
the back of the curb of each street, and if no curb exists, along the edge of
the shoulder of the street;
               (b)   At the intersection of a public or private street and an
alley or driveway, the line extending a designated length from the intersection
of the street and the driveway or alley along the back of the curb or the edge
of the shoulder of the street, and the line extending a designated length from
the intersection of the street and the driveway or alley along the edge of the
pavement of the driveway or alley.
            (2)   The “vision clearance line” is the straight line connecting
the non-intersecting ends of the vision distance lines.
            (3)   The “vision clearance triangle” is the triangular area
created by the intersection of the two vision distance lines with the vision
clearance line.
            (4)   See Exhibit 35-160(1).
         b.   The dimensions of a specific vision clearance triangle shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator, with input from the Public Works
Manager. If the land owner disagrees with the decision of the Zoning
Administrator, the land owner may request a determination by the Village
Engineer, at the cost of the land owner, as follows:
            (1)   At the intersection of any street with a State or County
Highway, the vision clearance triangle shall be determined by the method used
by the State of Wisconsin Department of Transportation or the County, whichever
is applicable.
            (2)   At the intersection of public or private streets, the length
of the vision distance lines shall be 40 feet from their intersection.
            (3)   At the intersection of a driveway or alley with a public or
private street, the length of the vision distance lines shall be 30 feet from
their intersection.
         c.   Exceptions. The requirements of subsection A.2.a. do not apply
to:
            (1)   Public utility poles;
            (2)   Trees trimmed (to the trunk) from the ground to a line at
least eight feet above the level of the pavement;
            (3)   Official warning signs or signals;
            (4)   Signs mounted nine feet or more above the ground and
supported by a single support with a maximum cross section of 12 inches;
            (5)   Earth-formed obstructions, including retaining walls, at
intersections which were existing on the date of passage of this Chapter.
            (6)   Mailboxes.
      3.   Existing Buildings. Except as otherwise set forth in this Chapter,
no building located at the intersection of two or more streets, where a vision
clearance less than provided above exists as of the date of the passage or
amendment of this Chapter, shall be structurally altered on the exterior within
the vision clearance triangle unless a vision clearance triangle meeting the
requirements of this section is provided at the corner of the building nearest
such intersection.
      4.   Historic Preservation Overlay District. Buildings in the HPO shall
follow the guidelines for that District, and the Historic Preservation
Committee may grant exceptions to the requirements of this section. Other
obstructions, except as set forth in subsection A.2.c., may not be placed in
the vision clearance triangle.
      5.   Exceptions by Plan Commission. The Plan Commission may grant
exceptions to the vision clearance requirements where the characteristics of
the intersection are such that traffic safety hazards would not be created and
the placement of signs or structures within the vision clearance triangle would
contribute to the objectives of the zoning district. Such an exception shall be
subject to review and approval by the Public Works Manager.
EXHIBIT 35-160(1):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f6408afce581a5f26abcbb1a994fbbe5f5f9deb2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f6408afce581a5f26abcbb1a994fbbe5f5f9deb2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
 
   B.   Loading Requirements. On every lot on which a business, trade or
industrial use is hereafter established, space with access to a public street
or alley shall be provided as indicated below for the loading and unloading of
vehicles off the public right-of-way.
      1.   B-1 through B-6 Districts (Business): one space at least 10 x 25
feet for each 5,000 sq. ft. of floor space or part thereof.
      2.   M-1 through M-3 Districts (Industrial): one space of at least 10 x
50 feet for each 10,000 sq. ft. of floor area or part thereof.
35-161 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   In all districts and in connection with every use, there shall be provided
at the time any use or building is erected, enlarged, or extended, increased
off-street parking stalls for all vehicles in accordance with the following:
   A.   Adequate access to a public street shall be provided for each parking
space, and driveways shall be at least 12 feet wide for one and two family
dwellings, and a minimum of 24 feet wide for all other uses. The minimum width
for all other uses may be reduced to 14 feet where the drive is to accommodate
one-way exit vehicle flow only.
   B.   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly onto an
aisle or driveway that is wide enough to provide safe and efficient means of
vehicular access to the parking space.
   C.   The size of each parking space shall be not less than 180 square feet
in area nor less than nine feet in width, exclusive of the space required for
ingress and egress.
   D.   Location.
      1.   The location of the required parking shall be on the same lot as the
principal use or not over 400 feet from the principal use. When planning new
parking lots, every attempt shall be made to minimize the effect of headlights
and noise from parking lot driveway entrances and exits on adjacent residential
areas.
      2.   Alternatives to on-site parking: municipal, shared or off-site
parking. When the provisions of subsection 1. cannot be met, parking may be
provided by municipal, shared, or off- site parking.
         a.   The petitioner shall submit written documentation to the
satisfaction of the Plan Commission that shared parking spaces are available to
satisfy the parking requirements. Shared parking agreements shall provide
evidence that either parking lots are adequate in total number of spaces to
accommodate multiple users or that parking spaces will be shared at certain
times of the day (i.e., one activity uses the spaces during daytime hours and
another activity uses the spaces during evening hours). Off-site parking lots
shall be located not more than 400 feet from the principal building entrance
that it is intended to serve, unless the petitioner's business or other use is
located in the HPO Historic Preservation Overlay District and may be served by
a municipal parking lot.
         b.   When a reduction of parking spaces attributable to shared parking
or off-site parking is requested, the petitioner shall submit written
verification that such parking is available for the life of the applicant's use
and shall include copies of any contracts, joint lease agreements, easements,
and other such documentation to show that such shared parking can be
accomplished. The method by which the required shared parking will be provided
is subject to the approval of the Village Attorney upon request by the Village
Zoning Administrator, and may be required to be recorded under the provisions
of subsection (c) of this section. Off-site parking spaces shall be clearly
posted for the joint use of employees, tenants and/or customers of each
respective use sharing those spaces.
         c.   Recording of restrictions. The Plan Commission may require that a
declaration of land use restriction be recorded upon the subject property at
the Racine County Register of Deeds to ensure that future owners are informed
of use restrictions resulting from the administration of this section.
   E. Minimum Required Parking Lot Setbacks, Landscaping, and Plans.
      1.   Minimum Required Setback for Off-Street Parking Areas Abutting a
Public Street Right-of-Way Line. No off-street parking area shall be closer
than eight feet from a public street right-of-way line. The area between the
parking lot and the adjacent street right-of-way shall consist of landscaping
meeting the requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   Minimum Required Setbacks for Off-Street Parking Areas. Except in
cases where greater restrictions apply, as set forth in paragraph 3 below, no
off-street parking area or associated driveway serving more than five vehicles
shall be closer than eight feet to a side or rear lot line of an abutting lot
or parcel. The area between the parking lot and the lot or parcel line shall
consist of landscaping meeting the requirements of this Chapter.
      3.   Minimum Required Setbacks for Off-Street Parking Areas Abutting
Residential Districts. No off-street parking area or associated driveway
serving more than five vehicles shall be closer than ten feet to a side or rear
lot line of an abutting Residential District. The area between the parking lot
and the lot or parcel line shall be screened from such district by a solid
wall, solid fence, and/or coniferous plantings of an equivalent solid visual
density or other effective means deemed adequate by the Plan Commission and
shall be built and maintained at a minimum height of six feet.
      4.   Minimum Distance of Truck Parking from Any Residential Zoning
District. No truck parking of Class 7 trucks (26,001 to 33,000 lbs., GVW) or
greater shall be allowed within 150 feet of any residential zoning district.
      5.   Minimum Required Landscaped Area and Landscaping Within Off-Street
Parking Lots.
         a.   All public off-street parking areas that serve ten vehicles or
more and are created, redesigned, and/or rebuilt subsequent to the adoption of
this Chapter, shall be provided with evenly dispersed landscape areas within
the interior of such off-street parking areas.
         b.   The landscaped area shall total not less than five percent of the
surfaced area (inclusive of both parking stalls and associated drives).
Perimeter landscaped areas adjacent to the off-street parking lot shall not be
included in the aforementioned required five percent. The minimum size of each
such required landscape area in the off-street parking lot shall not be less
than 100 square feet in area and not less than nine feet in width or length.
Canopy trees shall be provided at the rate of one tree for each 15 off-street
parking spaces (or fraction thereof) within the interior of the off-street
parking area. The preservation of existing canopy trees in the parking area may
be included in the calculation of the required minimum landscape area.
      6.   Minimum Landscaping Requirements To Be Met. All landscape plant
materials required by this Chapter shall meet the following minimum
requirements.
         a.   General Plant Material Standards. All new landscape plant
material shall be grown in a nursery located in plant hardiness zone 4 and
shall conform to the applicable requirements as specified in the current
edition of American Standard for Nursery Stock as approved by the American
National Standards Institute, Inc. and sponsored by the American Nursery and
Landscape Association. Botanical plant names shall be in accordance with the
current edition of New Pronouncing Dictionary of Plant Names prepared by the
American Joint Committee on Horticultural Nomenclature.
         b.   Plant Material Minimum Size Standards. All required new landscape
plant material shall be, at the time of installation, those minimum sizes as
set forth in Table 35- 161.1.
Table 35-161(1)
MINIMUM SIZE STANDARDS FOR REQUIRED PLANT MATERIALS
 
Plant Material Type Minimum Required Size of Plants
Canopy Trees:       3-inch caliper
Single Stem:        12 feet tall
Multi-stem Clump:
Coniferous Trees    6-feet tall
Ornamental Trees    1.5 inch caliper
Shrubs              2 feet tall
 
         c.   Off-Street Parking Area Surfacing. All open, off-street parking
and loading spaces in all zoning districts except residential districts shall
be improved with pavement of either asphalt or concrete. Storm water drainage
facilities shall be as required and approved by the Village Engineer.
         d.   Concrete Curb and Gutter Required for All Off-Street Parking
Areas and Associated Drives. Concrete curb and gutter shall be required for all
off-street parking areas serving five or more vehicles in the following zoning
districts: R-4, R-8, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B- 5, M-1, M-2, M-3, and P-1. The
expansion of any existing off-street parking lot must meet this requirement.
         e.   Permanent Marking of Off-Street Parking Stalls. All off-street
parking areas serving five or more vehicles shall have all parking stalls
permanently marked by painted lines or other approved material and said marking
shall be maintained so as to be legible at all times.
         f.   Parking Spaces for Use by Persons with Disabilities. All open,
off-street parking areas shall provide parking spaces for persons with
disabilities meeting all applicable "Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities" as documented in the Federal Register.
Vol. 56, No. 144, July 26, 1991 as amended. Unless conflicting with the above
specified "Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Guidelines for Buildings and
Facilities" requirements as amended, the following standards are applicable:
            (1)   Minimum Required Number of Accessible Off-Street Parking
Spaces for Use by Persons with Disabilities. The following Table 35-161(2)
shall apply. The minimum required number of accessible off-street parking
spaces for use by persons with disabilities shall be considered as a part of
the total off-street parking spaces required.
Table 35-161(2) “MINIMUM REQUIRED NUMBER OF ACCESSIBLE OFF-STREET PARKING
SPACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES” ADA Standards for Accessible Design 4.1.2
(5)
Total
Number
of Off-
Street
Parking Minimum Required Number of Accessible Off-Street Parking Spaces (60” & 96” Van-Accessible Parking Spaces with min. 96” wide access Accessible Parking Spaces with min. 60” wide access
Spaces  aisles)                                                                        aisle                                                     aisle
in
Parking
Lot or
Area
Total
Number
of Off-
Street
Parking Minimum Required Number of Accessible Off-Street Parking Spaces (60” & 96” Van-Accessible Parking Spaces with min. 96” wide access Accessible Parking Spaces with min. 60” wide access
Spaces  aisles)                                                                        aisle                                                     aisle
in
Parking
Lot or
Area
        Column “A”
1 to 25 1                                                                              1                                                         0
26 to   2                                                                              1                                                         1
50
51 to   3                                                                              1                                                         2
75
76 to   4                                                                              1                                                         3
100
101 to  5                                                                              1                                                         4
150
151 to  6                                                                              1                                                         5
200
201 to  7                                                                              1                                                         6
300
301 to  8                                                                              1                                                         7
400
401 to  9                                                                              2                                                         7
500
501 to  2 percent of total parking provided in each lot                                1/8 of Column “A”*                                    7/8 of Column “A”**
1,000
1,001
and     20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000                                              1/8 of Column “A”*                                    7/8 of Column “A”**
over
*one out of every 8 accessible spaces                                                  **7 out of every 8 accessible parking spaces
 
            (2)   Minimum Dimensions for Off-Street Parking Spaces Provided for
Use by Persons with Disabilities. The minimum dimensions for all parking spaces
provided for use by persons with disabilities shall be 14 feet wide by 20 feet
long for automobiles and 17 feet wide by 20 feet long for vans. The minimum
access aisles for such spaces shall be 60 inches for automobile spaces and 96
inches for van spaces.
            (3)   Distance to Facility Entrances for the Location of Off-Street
Parking for Persons with Disabilities. Off-street parking spaces provided for
the use of persons with disabilities shall be located as close as possible to
an entrance which allows such persons to enter and leave the parking area
without assistance.
            (4)   Signage of Off-Street Parking Spaces Serving Persons with
Disabilities. All parking spaces provided for the use of disabled persons shall
be marked by a sign which includes the international symbol for barrier-free
environments and a statement informing the public that the parking space is
reserved for use by disabled persons. Such signs shall comply with the
requirements of the aforementioned "Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities" as amended and with Wis. Stat. ss.
346.50, 346.503, and 346.505.
      g.   Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces required:
Table 35-161(3) NUMBER OF PARKING STALLS
Use Minimum Parking Required
Use                                                   Minimum Parking Required
Single-family, two-family, multi-family dwellings     2 spaces for each
                                                      dwelling unit
                                                      1 space for each guest
Motels, hotels, lodging, and boarding houses       room plus 1 space for
                                                      each 2 employees
                                                      1 space for each 2 beds
Hospitals and dormitories                             plus 1 space for each 2
                                                      employees
                                                      1 space for each 5 beds,
Sanitariums, institutions, rest and nursing homes     plus 1 space for each 2
                                                      employees
Medical and dental clinics                            5 spaces for each doctor
Churches, theaters, auditoriums, community centers,
vocational and night schools, and other places of     1 space for each 4 seats
public assembly
                                                      1 space for each 2
Colleges, secondary, and elementary schools           employees plus 1 space
                                                      for each 10 students of
                                                      16 years of age or more
                                                      1 space for each 150
Restaurants, bars, places of entertainment, repair    square feet of floor area
shops, retail and service stores               and 1 space for each 2
                                                      employees
Manufacturing and processing plants, laboratories and 1 space for each 3
warehouses                                      employees
                                                      1 space for each 300
Financial institutions, business, government, and     square feet of floor area
professional offices                           and 1 space for each 2
                                                      employees
Funeral Homes                             1 space for each 4 seats
Bowling alleys                        5 spaces for each alley
Lodges and clubs                          1 space for each 5
                                                      members
                                                      1 space for each regular
                                                      employee plus 1 space for
Automotive repair garages              each 250 square feet of
                                                      floor area used for
                                                      repair work
                                                      3 spaces for each grease
Gasoline filling stations                   rack or similar facility
                                                      plus 1 space for each
                                                      attendant
                                                      In the case of structures
                                                      or uses not mentioned,
Uses not listed                                       the provision for a use
                                                      which is similar shall
                                                      apply.
Combinations of any of the above uses shall provide the total of the number of
stalls required for each individual use.
 
         h.   Employee Parking. Parking spaces required on an employee basis,
as set forth in Table 35-161(3) shall be based on the average number of
employees on duty or residing, or both, on the premises at any one time.
         i.   Minimum Width of Off-Street Parking Rows and Aisles. The design
of all off street parking regulated by this Chapter shall be in conformance
with the requirements set forth in Table 35-161(4).
Table 35-161(4) MINIMUM WIDTH OF OFF-STREET PARKING ROWS AND AISLES
 
Type of Row        Parallel Spaces 45 Degree Angle 60 Degree    90 Degree Angle
                                   Spaces          Angle Spaces Spaces
Single Row & Aisle 20 ft.          35 ft.          40 ft.       45 ft.
Double Row& Aisle  28 ft.          60 ft.          62 ft.       65 ft.
 
         j.   Modifications to required parking spaces. The Village recognizes
that, due to the particularities of any given land use or development, the
inflexible application of the parking supply requirements set forth in
subsection g. of this section may result in a land use or development either
with inadequate parking supply or parking supply far in excess of its needs.
Therefore, the Plan Commission may permit or require deviations from the
requirements of subsection g. of this section and may require more parking or
allow less parking whenever it finds that such deviations are more likely to
satisfy the standards set out in subsections j.(1), j.(2) and j.(3) of this
section. Whenever the Plan Commission permits or requires a modification to the
prescribed parking supply requirements, it may also request the recording of
the same under the provisions of subsection D.2.c. of this section with the
Racine County Register of Deeds.
            (1)   Additional parking spaces can be required if it is determined
that the prescribed requirement for a particular development will lead to
traffic congestion or parking violations in adjacent streets or unauthorized
parking in nearby private parking lots.
            (2)   A reduction in parking spaces can be required if it is
determined that the prescribed requirement for a particular development would
result in the wasteful use of property that could more desirably be used for
additional building development, in the case of a land use or development which
would produce less parking demand, or for environmentally useful or
aesthetically pleasing open space.
            (3)   In the HPO Historic Preservation Overlay District, the Plan
Commission may also eliminate or modify the parking lot landscaping
requirements of this Section.
35-162 DRIVEWAYS.
   A.    10
35-300.
   B.   Application and Permit. The procedures for obtaining a Driveway Permit
and certain standards for driveways are set forth in section
6-7, Driveway Permits; Protection of Streets During Construction, of this
Municipal Code.
   C.   All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced or extended after
the effective date of this Chapter shall meet the requirements in this section.
Driveway culverts and apron end walls shall be constructed and/or installed as
may be required in section
6-7 of this Code.
   D.   Surface.
      1.   Driveway aprons in all zoning districts shall be asphaltic concrete
as provided in s.
6-7, except driveways directly accessing agricultural land.
      2.   All lots in the R-1 through R-5 Residential, B-1 through B-
6 Business, M-1 through M-3 Manufacturing and P-1 Institutional Park Zoning
Districts hereafter constructed shall, at the time of said construction, have
installed thereon, at the owner's or builder's expense, a hard-surfaced,
dustproof, paved driveway and off-street parking meeting the standards and
specifications as herein provided within 12 months of occupancy.
         For houses existing in one of these districts prior to the effective
date of this Code that have existing driveways, a hard-surfaced drive shall not
be required for modifications to the driveway, with the exception that if the
width of the approach is widened, then a hard-surfaced apron, consistent with
section
6-7 of this Municipal Code, shall be required from the road to the property
line.
      3.   Driveways in zoning districts not listed in subsection 2. may
consist of gravel or other surfaces, provided that the road strength of the
driveway is capable of supporting emergency and fire vehicles.
   E.   Width and Location.
      1.   Driveway aprons in all zoning districts shall be at least the width
required in s. 6- 7.
      2.   Driveways for one and two family dwellings shall have a minimum
width of 12 feet. Driveway widths for all other uses shall be determined during
the plan review and shall be established by the Public Works Manager and Zoning
Administrator based on traffic flows, current conditions and future
expectations for the area.
      3.   Openings for vehicular ingress and egress in all zoning districts,
except the Manufacturing and Agricultural Districts, shall not exceed 30 feet
at the street line and 35 feet at the roadway. Openings for vehicular ingress
and egress in the Manufacturing and Agricultural Districts shall not exceed 30
feet at the street line and, at the roadway, shall not exceed the width
determined by the Public Works Manager.
      4.   Islands between driveway openings shall be provided with a minimum
of six feet between all driveways and three feet at all lot lines. The area
between the lot line and adjacent driveway shall be a landscaped area.
      5.   Vehicular Entrances and Exits to drive-in theaters, banks and
restaurants; motels; funeral homes; vehicular sales, service, washing and
repair stations; or garages shall be not less than 200 feet from any pedestrian
entrance or exit to a school, college, university, church, hospital, park,
playground, library, public emergency shelter, or other place of public
assembly.
      6.   For existing single-family residences located on interior lots where
the side yard is not adequate to permit access to an off-street parking area
located in back of the building setback line, a parking area adequate to park
one or two automobiles may be constructed in front of the building setback
line, if approved by the zoning administrator.
      7.   For existing single-family residences located on corner lots where
the side yard or back yard is not adequate to permit access to an off-street
parking area located in back of the building setback line, a parking area
adequate to park one or two automobiles may be constructed in front of the
building setback line at a place farthest from the intersection of the streets,
if approved by the zoning administrator.
   4.   Length.
      1.   The driveway shall extend from the curb or, in the absence of a
curb, from the street surface to an off-street parking area or garage. The off-
street parking area and/or garage combined shall be adequate to park the
required number of vehicles, consistent with s.
35-161, behind the setback line for the zoning in which the construction takes
place.
      2.   Driveways extending 1,000 feet or more from a public or private road
shall receive approval from the contracted fire company and additional driveway
width may be required to accommodate fire vehicles in case of an emergency
prior to obtaining a driveway permit.
   F.   Hard Surface Specifications. Where driveway aprons, driveways and off-
street parking areas must be hard-surfaced and dust proof, they must be
constructed to meet the specifications of this section and the requirements of
the Public Works Manager as to finish, slope and strength. Expansion joints
shall be located as required.
      1.   The driveway apron on a public right of way shall meet the
requirement of s.
6-7 of this Code.
      2.   Driveways and parking beyond the apron.
         a.   On property where pavement is required, the driveway from the
apron to the edge of the right of way shall consist of three inches of asphalt
(one and one-half inch binder course, one and one-half inch surface course) on
a six inch compacted granular base. The driveway from the edge of the right of
way into the property shall be constructed of six inches of portland cement
reinforced concrete on a four inch compacted granular base, or three inches of
asphalt (one and one-half inch binder course, one and one-half inch surface
course) on a six inch compacted granular base.
         b.   Where driveways and/or parking areas consist of materials other
than asphaltic concrete are allowed, they shall have road strength capable of
supporting emergency and fire vehicles.
   G.   Street Projects. When a street project necessitates the removal of a
portion of a driveway:
      1.   Regardless of zoning district, if asphaltic concrete is removed to
accommodate a street project, it will be replaced with asphaltic concrete as
part of the project.
      2.   If a hard surface material that is not asphaltic concrete was used
in the right-of- way in a zoning district where a hard surface is required for
a driveway, the Village may remove that material to accommodate street
projects, may replace the material with asphaltic concrete, and shall not be
liable for replacing it with the same or similar material.
      3.   If a hard surface material was used in a zoning district where a
hard surface material is not required for a driveway, in the event the Village
intends to remove the other hard- surface material as part of a street project,
it will notify the property owner in writing. In the event that the property
owner wishes to restore the other hard-surface material at his or her own
expense (rather than have the Village restore the driveway within the right-of-
way with asphalt), the property owner must notify the Village within 30 days of
receiving the Village’s notice, in which case the Village will place gravel
rather than asphalt in the portion of the driveway located in the right-of way
beyond the required depth of the asphaltic concrete apron. The property owner
will have one year to restore that portion of the driveway with the other hard-
surface material. If the driveway has not been restored with the other hard
surface material within one year of the placement of the gravel, the Village
will place asphalt on the portion of the driveway located in the right-of-way
and will charge the full cost of doing so to the property owner as a special
charge pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0627, and if the property owner fails to
pay the special charge within 30 days of being billed therefore, the charge
shall be considered delinquent and shall become a lien on the property and
shall be included in the tax roll for collection.
   H.   The Zoning Administrator may revoke any driveway permit issued by
written notice at any time that the Administrator finds that the provisions of
this Chapter or any laws, orders, plans and specifications are not being
complied with. See s.
6-7 of this Municipal Code.
 
Notes
10 10 Amended by Ordinance 2016-8 Adopted 12-12-16
35-163 HIGHWAY ACCESS
   A.   No direct private access shall be permitted to the existing or proposed
rights-of-way of any controlled access arterial street without permission of
the highway agency that has access control jurisdiction. No direct public or
private access shall be permitted to the existing or proposed rights-of-way of
arterial streets intersecting other arterial streets or local streets within
100 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
   B.   Access Barriers, such as curbing, fencing, ditching, landscaping, or
other topographic barriers, may be required to prevent unauthorized vehicular
ingress or egress to the above specified streets or highways.
   C.   Temporary Access to the above rights-of-way may be granted by the Plan
Commission after review and recommendation by the highway agencies having
jurisdiction. Such access permit shall be temporary, revocable, and subject to
any conditions required and shall be issued for a period not to exceed 12
months.
   D.   With respect to each lot in residential districts R-1 to R-3 inclusive
only one driveway shall be permitted to exit/enter said lot from each street
that directly abuts such lot on the front, rear and each side; and any driveway
exiting/entering said lot from more than one street will connect with the
driveway or driveways exiting/entering from any other street or streets. This
provision shall only apply to driveways constructed after the effective date of
this Code.
35-170 SIGNS.
   A.   Intent. It is the intent of this Chapter to insure that signs
compliment both the natural environment around them and the architecture of the
buildings associated with the signs. Signs must convey information clearly
without being aesthetically distracting. The sign regulations are intended to
promote the effective use of signs; to maintain and enhance the aesthetic
environment of the Village; to promote pedestrian and vehicular safety; to
protect property values by minimizing the adverse effects of signs; and to
provide a procedure for fair and consistent enforcement, by:
      1.   Establishing a permit system to allow a broad variety of sign types
in commercially and industrially zoned districts and a limited variety of signs
in other zoned districts, subject to the standards and procedures of this
Chapter.
      2.   Allowing certain signs in residentially zoned districts that are
small, unobtrusive and incidental to the principal use of the respective
premises on which they are located, subject to the substantive requirements of
this Chapter, but without a requirement for permits.
      3.   Prohibiting all signs not expressly permitted by this Chapter.
      4.   Prohibiting all signs which have the potential for disrupting or
distracting vehicular traffic.
35-171 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED SIGNS; PERMITS.
   A.   Regulations. Signs shall be allowed or prohibited as set forth in this
Chapter. Signs that are allowed require a sign permit unless otherwise noted.
No sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, converted or structurally altered unless it is in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter.
      1.   Type of signs allowed.
         a.   Monument. The design of freestanding signs should recognize that
they are part of the landscape. These signs use low mounting walls, masonry
bases, shrubs, and ground cover, and seasonal plantings to integrate them with
their sites.
         b.   Wall. Wall signs shall complement the architecture of the
building. They shall not extend above the roofline.
      2.   Types of signs not allowed.
         a.   Roof.
         b.   Pole.
         c.    Projecting; except such signs are allowed in the B-1 Central
Business District.
      3.   Location of Signs. All signs shall be located on the premises of the
business. Off premises signs (billboards) are not allowed.
   B.   Permits. A zoning permit application for a sign must be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Village, and shall be
accompanied by the fee for the permit application determined by the Village
Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule. The zoning permit application must
contain or have attached thereto at least the following information:
      1.   Applicant's name, address, and telephone number.
      2.   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign is to be located.
      3.   Name of person or entity erecting the sign.
      4.   A drawing of such sign indicating the materials to be used, the type
of illumination, if any, and the method of construction and attachment. The
drawing must be drawn at a scale no smaller than 1/10 inch equals one foot or
dimensions must be shown on the drawing.
      5.   A drawing indicating the location and position of the sign in
relation to nearby buildings, structures, and lot lines. The drawing must
include the sign's height above finished yard grade. The drawing must be at a
scale no smaller than one inch equals 50 feet or dimensions must be shown on
the drawing. All setback measurements must be taken from the street right of
way and lot lines.
      6.    Signs requiring county, state and/or federal approval must provide
a copy of all such approvals with the sign permit application.
      7.   The Applicant shall furnish the Village with proof of insurance in a
form approved by the Village Zoning Administrator, demonstrating that the
Applicant holds commercial and general liability insurance with policy limits
of not less than $1,000,000 general aggregate, $1,000,000 personal injury, and
$1,000,000 each occurrence.
      8.   Additional information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator, the Plan Commission, the Village Board or the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-172 MEASURING SIGNS.
   A.   In calculating the area of a sign to determine whether it meets the
requirements of this Chapter, the Zoning Administrator will include the sign
copy and any border or frame surrounding that copy. Customary supporting
members of a sign will be excluded from the area calculation. The area of
irregularly-shaped signs or of signs containing two or more detached elements
will be determined by the area of the smallest circle, square, triangle,
rectangle, or combination thereof, that will encompass all elements of the
sign. Where individual letters, words, emblems, symbols, etc. are affixed to a
building, a rectangle around the entire phrase or sentence will be measured to
compute the sign area. Where the sign background is made a different color from
the building such as by painting, the area of different color will be measured.
Back-to-back, side-by-side, bottom-on-top, and V-shaped signs constitute one
sign.
   B.   Spherical, free-form, sculptural, or other non-planar sign area is 50
percent of the sum of the areas using only the four vertical sides of the
smallest four-sided polyhedron that will encompass the sign structure. Signs
with more than four faces are prohibited.
   C.   The sign height shall be computed as the distance from the base of the
sign or structure to which it is attached at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be
the lower of:
      1.   Existing grade prior to construction; or
      2.   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of elevating
the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined,
sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the
normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest
point of the crown of a street or the grade of the principal pedestrian
entrance to the principal structure on the site, whichever is lower.
35-173 SIGNS ALLOWED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS, NO PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The following signs do not require permits, but must meet the size and
placement limitations of this Chapter.
   A.    Any temporary sign 11 square feet or less in area, and not more than
five feet in height, subject to compliance with all applicable total sign area
limitations of the applicable lot.
   B.   Property address numbers assigned by the Village and of a design
approved by the Village that are required to be    placed on every principal
structure or as designated by the Village in clear view from the street on
which the address is assigned. Such signs are tantamount to government signs,
to assist with the provision of emergency services.
   C.   Signs not readable beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon
which they are situated and not readable from any street right-of-way or which
are intended solely for providing information to parties on-site.
   D.   Government signs, as defined herein.
   E.   Any identification or display of any official court or public office,
notices thereof, or any flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, federal, state,
county, or other governmental unit or school. Such signs are tantamount to
government signs for the observance of the institutions of our participatory
democracy.
   F.   Any sign that is located completely within an enclosed building and
such sign is not placed in a window facing outward for the purpose of being
readable from outside the building.
   G.   Tablets, grave markers, headstones, statuary, or monuments of persons
or events that are noncommercial in nature.
   H.   [Reserved]
   I.   Works of art that are not intended to attract attention to the type of
business or activity conducted on or off    the premises.
   J.   [Reserved]
   K.   Signs on a truck, bus, trailer, or other vehicle incidental to the use
of such vehicle while operated in the normal course of a business. (But see s.
35-174, Prohibited Signs.)
   L.   Signs within a federal, state, county or Village park or cemetery,
placed by a governmental authority, which are not readable from external
streets.
   M.   Private property hazard signs.
   N.   [Reserved]
   O.   [Reserved]
   P.   Memorial Signs, tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of metal and affixed flat
against a structure. Such signs are tantamount to governmental signs to assist
in identification of property and in the provision of emergency services.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-174 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
 1  The following signs are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   A.    12 Specifically prohibited signs include projecting signs, billboards,
pole signs, roof signs, pylon signs, flashing or moving signs or beacons, bench
signs, trailer signs, banner signs on poles or buildings, balloons, inflatable
advertising devices, inflatable signs and pennants. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Code, pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.1102, a banner is allowed
over the entire height and length of a fence surrounding a construction site
when placed there by the owner or other person in control of the construction
site, unless the banner will cause a health or safety concern.
   B.   Signs that revolve, are animated or have moving parts, or signs that
contain, include, or are illuminated by flashing lights having a display that
may appear to grow, melt, x-ray, inverse, twinkle, snow, or present pictorials
or other animation, or are externally illuminated by other than white lights,
are prohibited. This subsection shall not prohibit changeable copy signs with
displays that are steady in nature or have an intermittent change in display
that are otherwise allowed or authorized under this Chapter.
   C.    Vehicle Signs.Parking any vehicle, trailer, farm wagon, or equipment
to be readable from a street right-of-way, that has attached thereto or located
thereon any sign or advertising device is prohibited, subject to the following.
This provision shall not prohibit signs attached to a vehicle, trailer, farm
wagon, or equipment if the sign is incidental to the primary use of the
vehicle, trailer, farm wagon, or equipment; nor shall this provision prohibit
any official signs in the street right-of-way regulated by the federal, state,
county, or local government.
   D.   Interference with Traffic. Signs shall not resemble, imitate, or
approximate the shape, size, form, or color of railroad or traffic signs,
signals, or devices. Signs shall not obstruct or interfere with the
effectiveness of railroad or traffic signs, signals, or devices. No sign shall
be erected, relocated, or maintained so as to prevent free ingress to or egress
from any door, window, or fire escape, and no sign shall be attached to a
standpipe or fire escape. No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct or
interfere with traffic visibility.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
 
Notes
1  11 Amended 12-12-16, Ordinance 2016-8
12 12 Amended 8-6-2018, Ordinance 2018-5
35-175 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Obstruction of Exits. No sign shall be constructed or maintained so as
to obstruct any door, window,    stairway or fire escape of any building.
   B.   Obstruction and interference prohibited. No sign shall be erected,
placed, located or maintained at or near the intersection of any streets, roads
or highways so as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where,
by reason of position, shape and color, it may interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device; or
which makes use of the words “STOP,” “LOOK,” “DANGER” or other word, phrase,
symbol or character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
traffic.
   C.   Signs Prohibited Within or in Proximity to Limits of any Street or
Highway.
      1.   No sign shall be erected, placed, located, or maintained within, nor
closer than five feet from the area limits, of any street, road or highway
right-of-way, except as allowed by subsection 4., below. Street, road or
highway limits include all the dedicated right-of-way, encompassing the
travelled portion of the street, road or highway, the shoulders, ditches and
adjacent dedicated areas. This prohibition applies to free-standing signs and
those placed on trees, utility poles, fence post stakes, and all other
structures within the right-of-way limits.
      2.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection shall be a
violation of s. 86.19, Wis. Stats., as well as this chapter.
      3.   Any sign in violation of this subsection shall be removed without
notice by the Highway Department or the Police Department.
      4.   This prohibition shall not apply to signs placed within the limits
of streets, roads or highways by duly constituted municipal, county, or state
authorities for the guidance or warning of traffic, as provided in ss. 86.19(1)
and (4), Wis. Stats., or to mail boxes and paper boxes. This prohibition also
does not apply to approved Monument Signs.
   D.   Side and rear lot lines. No sign shall be erected closer than ten feet
from a side or rear lot line.
   E.   Construction Over Public Property. No person or entity shall erect or
cause to be erected any sign which projects over any public sidewalk, street,
road, highway, alley or public place, except as expressly permitted by this
Code.
   F.   No sign shall be placed in a vision-clearance triangle area as defined
and regulated within s.
35-160.A. of this Code.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-176 DISTRICT REGULATIONS FOR SIGNS.
   The following provisions are specific to the Zoning Districts of the
Village.
   A.   Residential Districts. The following signs are allowed in Residential
Districts. All signs not specifically allowed in this Chapter are prohibited in
Residential Districts.
      1.   No Permit Required.
         a.   Signs not to exceed two square feet located on the premises.
      2.   Permit Required.
         a.   Single-family, two-family, and multi-family permanent residential
development signs not to exceed 48 square feet in area on one side and 96
square feet in area on all sides, that are located at entrances to subdivisions
or developments or along abutting streets or highways, identifying residential
complexes or displaying the property addresses. Said signs must be located on
an outlot, permanent easement, or other common area and they must be located
not closer than 15 feet to any street right-of-way, nor closer than ten feet to
any side or rear lot line. Such signs may not exceed 12 feet in height. No more
than two such signs are permitted for any one subdivision or development.
         b.   Temporary development signs for the purpose of designating a new
building or development or for promotion of a subdivision may be permitted for
a period up to two years, and extensions may be granted for a period not to
exceed five years total. Signs may not exceed 48 square feet in area on one
side and 96 square feet in area on all sides; may not exceed 12 feet in height,
and must be located not closer than 15 feet from any street right-of-way and 75
feet from any street right-of-way intersection, nor closer than ten feet to any
side or rear lot line. Only one such sign is permitted per street frontage.
   B.   Business and Industrial Districts. The following signs are allowed in
all Business and Industrial Districts, except for Adult Establishments, subject
to the conditions specified. All of the signs listed require a permit.
 1  1.   Wall Signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings are allowed
and shall not extend outside of a building's wall surface, and shall not exceed
500 square feet in area for any one premises.
         a.   Wall signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings may not
extend more than 12 inches outside of a building’s wall surface, may not exceed
30 feet in height (measured from the existing grade below the sign to the top
of the sign), and may not extend above the roofline of a flat roof, or the eave
line of a building with a gambrel, gable, dome, or hip roof, or the deck line
of a building with a mansard roof.
         b.   Total area of all wall signs may not exceed 500 square feet in
area for any one premises; except that in multi-tenant shopping centers, the
anchor tenant(s) may each have 500 square feet of allowable sign area, and the
total area of individual wall signs for non-anchor businesses within such
multi-tenant structures shall not exceed 50 square feet per tenant. An anchor
tenant is defined as the major store or stores within a shopping center
exceeding 40,000 square feet in total floor area.
      2.   Monument Signs (Ground Signs) 14 . The top of a monument sign shall
not exceed ten feet in height from the existing grade at the proposed sign
location. The structural base below the sign shall maintain a minimum two feet
in height measured from existing yard grade to the bottom of the sign. The
structural base shall extend the full width of the sign face. Monument signs
shall not be located closer than 15 feet to a street right of way or closer
than ten feet to a side or rear lot line. A monument sign shall not exceed 100
square feet on one side nor 200 square feet on all sides for any one premises.
         a.   Required Landscaping at Base of Monument Sign. All monument signs
shall provide a landscaped area with appropriate natural plant material
groundcover and other landscape plantings located at the base of the monument
sign equal in area to the area of the face of the sign.
         b.   When earthen berms are used as part of the landscaping, the
earthen berms shall maintain a side slope of three to one with a maximum berm
height of three feet above the surrounding grade. When earthen berms are used,
earthen berms shall count towards the maximum permissible sign height.
      3.    Private Property Hazard Signs.
      4.   Window Signs may be placed only on the inside of buildings and first
floor windows and doors. No permit is required for window signs that are not
readable from the street right-of-way. The total area of all window signs
requiring a permit shall not cover more than 20 percent of the total window
area to which they are applied, or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
      5.    Marquee, awning, and canopy signs affixed flat to the surface of a
marquee, awning, or canopy are permitted provided that the signs do not extend
vertically or horizontally beyond the limits of such marquee, awning, or
canopy. A marquee, awning, or canopy for a shopping center may not extend
beyond a point one foot back from the vertical plane formed by the curbline in
the shopping center. No marquee, awning, or canopy may project into a required
street yard, side yard, or rear yard, unless such structure already exists as
an existing legal nonconforming structure or was approved by variance and such
sign does not increase the dimensional nonconformity. A name sign not exceeding
two square feet in area located immediately in front of the entrance to an
establishment may be suspended from a marquee, awning, or canopy. Any such sign
must be located at least 12 feet above the sidewalk or 15 feet above a driveway
or alley. The total area of all marquee, awning, or canopy signs may not exceed
60 square feet in area for any one premises.
      6.   Projecting Signs. Projecting signs placed against the exterior wall
of the building may not extend more than three feet outside of a building wall
surface; shall not be any closer than two feet from a street parking curb;
shall maintain a minimum height of eight feet from a sidewalk and 15 feet above
a driveway; a maximum height of 20 feet above the mean centerline grade of the
public street; and shall not exceed 12 square feet in area. Projecting signs
are only permitted in the B-1, Central Business District.
      7.   Signs on any one site are further limited as follows:
         a.   Shopping Centers and multi-tenant buildings may provide one
ground sign for each street frontage. Such facilities may also provide one wall
sign or one canopy sign for each business in the building.
         b.    Gasoline stations, service stations, convenience stores with
pumps, or any combination thereof may provide one ground sign. Wall signs and
canopy signs may also be provided subject to total square footage limitations.
Signs that are window signs or located on the gasoline pumps, are not readable
from the street right-of-way, will not require permits or be regulated in
number.
         c.   For all other uses, total signs are limited to two signs per
street frontage.
   C.   Conservation and Park Districts. The following signs are allowed in
Conservation and Park Districts, subject to the conditions herein specified.
      1.   No Permit Required.
         a.    On-premises or off-premises recreational directory signs not to
exceed two in number, indicating the direction and/or distance to a specific
cottage, resort, residence, or recreation facility that is located within an
agricultural, resource conservation or park district, not to exceed 12 square
feet in display area on one side and 24 square feet on all sides, five feet in
height and no closer than ten feet to any right-of-way or property line. Such
signs are tantamount to governmental signs to assist in identification of
property and in the provision of emergency services.
         b.   Government Signs.
         c.   Bulletin Boards for public, charitable or religious institutions
not to exceed 24 square feet in area located on the premises.
      2.   Permit Required.
         a.   Public and private institutional and park names signs. Such signs
may be erected as wall signs or ground signs and shall meet the requirements
set forth for the business and industrial districts.
   D.   Agricultural and Urban Reserve Districts. The following signs are
allowed in the Agricultural and Urban Reserve Districts with a permit:
      1.    Historical marker designations, as defined herein, which may not
exceed 24 square feet in area on one side and 48 square feet in area on all
sides, limited to one sign or any one farm, and such signs are located at least
ten feet from the outer limits of the street right-of-way or any property line,
and such signs do not exceed ten feet in height. Such signs may be exempt from
the aforementioned height limit if painted upon the wall of an accessory
structure. The size of such wall signs may exceed 24 square feet if done in an
aesthetically pleasing manner that is approved through a site plan review by
the Plan Commission.
      2.    Temporary, non-illuminated, off-premises signs not to exceed four
in number, to serve a roadside stand operation, not to exceed 12 square feet in
display area on one side and 24 square feet in area on all sides, a maximum of
five feet in height, at least ten feet from the outer limits of the street
right-of-way and five feet from any other property line. Such signs must be
removed within ten days of discontinuing operation of a roadside stand.
Provided the sign(s) are relocated per the issued permit and the permit holder
remains the same, the issued permit continues to be valid for successive years.
      3.    Signs pertaining to the sale of products actually grown on the farm
or in connection with a roadside stand not to exceed 32 square feet in area on
one side and 64 square feet on all sides for no more than two signs on any one
farm, such signs are located at least ten feet from the outer limits of the
street right-of-way or any property line, such signs do not exceed 15 feet in
height, and such signs are located on the same premises as the products for
sale.
      4.    Signs for agricultural businesses that are approved by conditional
use shall be treated as commercial/industrial signs are allowed.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
 
Notes
1  13 Ordinance #2016-4 Adopted May 9, 2016
14 14 Ordinance #2016-4 Adopted May 9, 2016
35-177. SIGN REGULATIONS.
   A.   Signs Illuminated By Spotlights. If a sign is illuminated by one or
more spotlights specifically directed at it, the spotlights are to be fully
shielded so that they are not visible from public streets or adjoining
property.
   B.   Lighting of Signs. Lighting of signs shall be permitted. Lighting of
signs shall incorporate cutoff lighting where the illumination source is not
visible from the viewing highway, or from neighboring homes and businesses.
   C.   Animation of Signs. No signs using animated or flashing messages are
allowed unless specifically set forth herein.
   D.   Existing Signs. Any sign lawfully existing at the time of the adoption
or amendment of this Chapter may be continued although the use, size, or
location does not conform with the provisions of this Chapter. However, it
shall be deemed a nonconforming use or structure; and the provisions of Section
35-200 of this Chapter shall  apply.
   E.   Location. Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this Chapter, all signs
must be set back at least five feet from the public right-of-way. Vision
corners shall be maintained per s.
35-175 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-178 SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   A.   Construction.
      1.   All signs shall be constructed, erected and maintained to support
the actual dead load, plus wind loads of not less than 40 pounds per square
foot acting upon it, without exceeding the allowable stresses of the material.
         a.   The exposed area subject to wind pressure shall be the total area
of all parts of the sign, including structural framing projected on a plane
perpendicular to the direction of the wind.
         b.   In determining the stress in any member, the wind shall be
assumed to blow from that horizontal direction and from that inclination from
the vertical (but not to exceed 20 degrees above or below the horizontal) which
produces the maximum stress in such member. No shielding effect on one element
from another shall be considered where the distance between such elements
exceeds four times the smaller projected dimension of the windward element.
      2.   The temporary occupancy of a sidewalk or street or other public
property during construction, removal, repair, alteration, or maintenance of a
sign is permitted subject to the approval of the jurisdictional authority,
provided that the space occupied is roped off, fenced off, or otherwise
isolated as directed by said authority.
      3.   No sign or any part thereof or sign anchor, brace, or guide rod may
be attached, fastened, or anchored to any fire escape, fire ladder, or
standpipe and no such sign or any part of any such sign or any anchor, brace,
or guide rod may be erected, put up, relocated, or maintained so as to hinder
or prevent ingress or egress through such door, doorway, fire escape, window,
or opening designated by the contracted fire department, or so as to hinder or
prevent the raising or placing of ladders against such building by the fire
department as necessity may require.
      4.   Upon request of the Zoning Administrator, it is the responsibility
of the applicant to establish by competent evidence that the sign meets any
above stated standards or requirements.
   B.   Sign Maintenance. The owner of a sign shall keep it in good maintenance
and repair which includes restoring, repainting, or replacement of a worn or
damaged legally existing sign to its original condition; and shall maintain the
premises on which the sign is erected in a clean, sanitary, and inoffensive
condition, free and clear of obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
35-179 ADDITIONAL SIGN REGULATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   A.   Temporary Signs. Temporary signs shall be placed in conformance with
this Code for no longer than 120 days, unless a longer time is expressly
allowed by Wis. Stat. s. 12.04, or other applicable laws, in which case the
shortest period required by such statute applies; or as follows.
      1.   Signs on Property Under Construction. Temporary signs are permitted
by the Zoning Administrator in any district for the duration of a building
permit, where a building permit is in effect and construction is occurring. The
Zoning Administrator may restrict the number, size, and location of temporary
signs on any property to ensure safety for traffic and pedestrians.
      2.   Signs on Property Marketed for Sale or Lease. Temporary signs may
remain on a property for all time that the property is actively marketed, as
defined herein, for sale or lease. Whether the property is being actively
marketed for sale or lease shall be subject to the determination of the Zoning
Administrator. Any such sign shall be treated as a permanent sign for purposes
of permitting, but shall remain a temporary sign for purposes of removal once
the marketing of the property is concluded. The sign must be removed no later
than ten calendar days after the marketing of the property is concluded.
Certain provisions of this Code that would otherwise apply are waived for
purposes of signs that are subject to this subsection, as follows:
         a.   Residential Parcels. On lots that are zoned for residential use
the otherwise applicable sign limitations of this Chapter are modified as
follows:
            (1)   One sign up to 11 square feet in area is allowed per street
frontage without obtaining a zoning permit.
            (2)   Such signs may be up to six feet in height.
            (3)   A small sign no larger than two square feet in area, that is
attached to the larger sign shall not count toward the total square footage of
signage on the parcel.
            (4)   An additional sign up to six square feet in area is permitted
per each street frontage during the time and within 72 hours of an open house
marketing event, without a zoning permit.
            (5)   Signs may be placed anywhere on the parcel, provided the
placement is not in the public right-of-way or a vision corner.
         b   Non-Residential Parcels. On lots that are zoned for commercial,
industrial or other non-residential use, and are used for commercial,
industrial or other non-residential use, the otherwise applicable sign
limitations of this Chapter are modified as follows:
            (1)   One sign up to 32 square feet in area is allowed per street
frontage without obtaining a zoning permit, except on properties zoned B-
1 within the Historic Preservation Overlay District, where one sign up to 20
square feet is allowed per street frontage without a zoning permit.
            (2)   Such signs may be up to eight feet in height, except on
properties zoned B-1 within the Historic Preservation Overlay District, where
such signs may be up to seven feet in height.
            (3)   Signs may be placed anywhere on the parcel, provided the
placement is not in the public right-of-way or a vision corner.
      3.   Signs on Property Under Development. Temporary signs may remain on a
property under some circumstances while the property is under development,
subject to the following limitations. A sign permit is required for any
development sign. A development sign shall be treated as a permanent sign for
purposes of permitting, but shall remain a temporary sign for purposes of
removal once the approval for the development sign expires. All development
signs may remain on the lot for one year following the date the sign permit is
granted, unless otherwise restricted in the grant of the sign permit. Prior to
expiration of the sign permit or any extension thereof, upon request of the
owner or developer, the Plan Commission may extend the sign permit for
successive periods of up to one year each, if the Plan Commission finds the
development is actively proceeding and the sign is not otherwise in violation
of the standards of this Section. The development sign must be removed no later
than 30 calendar days following the expiration of the permit unless specified
otherwise by the Plan Commission. The total sign area requirements of the
district in which the sign is located shall apply, except as follows: if during
the process of development, the property is rezoned, the sign area calculations
of the original zoning district shall continue to apply for the duration of the
development; and if the property being developed includes multiple contiguous
parcels, the calculation of sign area shall include all such contiguous parcels
as though they were one parcel.
   B.   Conflict of Laws. In the event that Wis. Stat. s. 12.04 would permit a
sign that is larger than the size limitations described in this Section, such
sign, regardless of sign content, is allowed only for the period described in
Wis. Stat. s. 12.04.
   C.   Maximum Area for Permanent Signs by Zoning District.
      1.   Residential Districts (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6, R-7, R-8 and R-
9). The total sign area allowed on a lot that is zoned R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5,
R-6, R-7, R-8 and R-9, shall be 11 square feet, subject to such additional
square footage as may be permitted by the standards of this Section.
      2.   Agricultural and Conservation Related Districts (A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4,
UR, C-1, C-2, P-1, P-2, F-1, GFP, FF, SW, and SD). The total sign area allowed
on a lot that is zoned A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, UR, C-1, C-2, P-1, P-2, F-1, GFP,
FF, SW, and SD shall be 11 square feet for every 200 lineal front feet of the
lot line abutting a public roadway. In making this calculation, the lineal
front feet of the lot line shall be rounded down to the nearest number
divisible by 200. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the lot abuts less than 200
feet of public roadway, the total sign area allowed on the lot is 11 square
feet.
      3.   Business Districts (B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5 and B-6), Manufacturing
Districts (M-1, M-2, M-3 and M-4). A campus/medical/aggregate business (five or
more businesses within a single building/property and way-finding monument
signs shall not exceed 18 feet in height nor have a maximum face size of 150
square feet with no allowance for EMU/digital signs. The total sign area
allowed on a lot that is zoned B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, M-1, M-2, M-3 and
M-4 shall be computed as either .5 sq. ft. x the lineal front foot of the lot
line or .65 sq. ft. x the building or structure front foot, whichever is
greater, to a maximum of 120 square feet for retail and 80 square feet for
office, mixed use, or other uses, as allowed by the Plan Commission in its
consideration of the site plan.
   D.   Non-Commercial Signs Permitted. Any sign authorized or otherwise
permitted under this section shall be allowed to contain non-commercial copy in
lieu of any other copy.
   E.   Sign Ordinance Variances.
      1.   Purpose. Sign Ordinance Variances are intended to allow flexibility
in sign regulation while fulfilling the purpose of the ordinance. Nothing in
this Section, however, is intended to permit the erection or maintenance of
signs which create the potential of public harm or for which there is no public
benefit or which are in conflict with the Village's Master Plan or relevant
portions thereof.
      2.   Procedure.
         a.   Any applicant who desires a variance from any provision or
requirement of this Chapter may request an oral hearing before the Plan
Commission by submitting a written request therefor to the Village Clerk not
less than 21 days before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Plan
Commission. A fee of $850 shall be required of the applicant at the time that a
request for a hearing before the Plan Commission is made.
         b.   The Plan Commission shall review such requests for variances
using the following criteria:
            (1)   Area Enhancements.
               (a)   The sign as proposed will not result in an undue
concentration of signage which renders it difficult or confusing to read
existing signs;
               (b)   The proposed sign is unique and of exceptional design or
style, so as to enhance the area.
            (2)   Site Difficulties. Unusual site factors preclude the
construction of a sign in accordance with this Chapter which would be visible
to the roadway adjacent to the site frontage.
            (3)   Should the Plan Commission find that a variance should be
granted, the application will be forwarded to the Zoning Administrator with
directions to issue a permit in accordance with its decision. If the Plan
Commission finds that a variance should not be granted, it shall inform the
applicant of the reasons for such decision in writing within ten days of the
date of such decision. The decision of the Plan Commission shall be final.
   F.   Sign Ordinance Modification by Conditional Use. Additional sign square
footage and alteration of otherwise applicable height, setback, offset or other
standards of this Chapter may be granted by the Village Plan Commission in its
consideration and grant of a conditional use pursuant to s.
35-100 of this Code. In considering this possible grant, the Plan Commission
shall be guided by the purpose of this s.
35-170 along with the basis for approval described in s.
35-100, without consideration of the content of any such signage.
   G.   Abandoned Signs. All abandoned signs shall be prohibited. An abandoned
sign is one which no longer correctly advertises a bona fide business, lessor,
lessee, owner, product or activity conducted or product available on the
premises where the sign is displayed, or a sign which has not been maintained
in a safe, presentable, and good structural condition at all times, including
replacement of defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning and other acts
required for the maintenance of the sign. The owner shall be responsible for
the repair or removal of any sign within 30 days after written notice from the
Building Inspector of the abandonment of the sign.
   H.   Definitions.
      1.   Definition of government sign:
            “Government Sign” means any sign that is owned, operated, or
required by a governmental entity having jurisdiction, including, but not
limited to, the signs designated in this Chapter as government signs, and signs
that are required by applicable laws. Such signs include official traffic, fire
and police signs, signals, devices, and markings of the State of Wisconsin and
the Village or other public authorities, or posted notices required by law.
      2.   Definition of historical marker sign:
            “Historical Marker” means a sign to commemorate one or more
persons, an event, a former use of a place, a person or place of historic
interest, a century farm, or similar designation. Historical markers are
tantamount to government signs, to identify places of historic public interest.
      3.   Definition of private property hazard sign:
            “Private Property Hazard Sign” which is defined as follows: a pylon
sign that would serve the primary purpose of protecting the safety of
pedestrians, drivers, and passengers, such as warning signs marking hazards on
private property and signs directing traffic and parking on private property.
Such signs serve a compelling interest in safety and are tantamount to
government signs but located on private property.
      4.   Definition of actively marketed:
            “Actively Marketed” means (1) proactive measures are being taken to
connect and engage with potential customers, which may include listing with a
real estate agent, publishing advertisements in a newspaper or other print
publications, or engaging in online advertising activities, such as posting on
a website; and (2) these actions are repeated, updated, and modified regularly
to continue to seek engagement with potential purchasers. The mere fact of
placing a sign on a lot does not itself demonstrate that the property is being
actively marketed.
      5.   Definition of projecting sign:
            “Projecting Sign” means any sign that is wholly or partly dependent
upon a building for support    and which extends three feet from the side of
the building.
      6.   Definition of semi-flexible canopy structure:
            “Semi-Flexible Canopy Structure” means a structure made with
flexible material, that is allowed as a permanent accessory structure in the
agricultural zoning districts and used for agricultural purposes and complies
with the State of Wisconsin Uniform Dwelling Code and the Village of Rochester
Building Code.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-180 MODIFICATIONS.
   A.   Height. The district height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this
Chapter may be exceeded in accordance with the following:
      1.   Architectural Projections such as spires, belfries, cupolas, domes,
flues and chimneys are exempt from the height limitations of this Chapter.
      2.   Special Structures, such as fire towers and substations, are exempt
from the height limitations of this Chapter, but conditional use permits may be
required. See section 35- 100.
      3.   Residential Fences and Walls are allowed without a permit on the
property lines of residential properties, but shall not in any case exceed a
height of six feet in side and rear yards and four feet in street yards; and
shall not be closer than one foot to any public right-of- way. No residential
fence may be located in a driveway, drainage, utility, or preservation
easement.
      4.   Retaining walls are allowed anywhere in a yard provided, however,
that no individual wall shall exceed three feet in height, and a terrace of at
least three feet in width shall be provided between any series of such walls
and provided further that along a street frontage no such wall shall be closer
than three feet to the base setback line. A zoning permit for a retaining wall
is required.
      5.   Security Fences are allowed on the property lines in all districts
except residential districts, and only on property lines of non-residential
properties, but shall not exceed ten feet in height and shall be of an open
type similar to woven wire or wrought iron fencing.
   B.   Yards. The yard requirements set forth in this Chapter may be modified
as follows:
      1.   Uncovered Stairs, landings, bulkhead doors and fire escapes may
project into any yard but not to exceed five feet, may not be closer than three
feet to any lot line, and may project into a required court not more than three
and one-half feet, provided light and ventilation are not obstructed.
      2.   Architectural Projections such as chimneys, flues, sills, eaves,
belt courses, decorative projections, lighting fixtures, balconies, bay/bow
windows and ornaments may project into any required yard; but such projection
shall not exceed three feet.
      3.   Residential Fences and Walls are allowed without a permit on the
property lines of residential districts, but shall not in any case exceed a
height of six feet in side and rear yards and four feet in street yards; and
shall not be closer than one foot to any public right-of-way. No residential
fence may be located in a driveway, drainage, utility, or preservation
easement.
      4.   Retaining walls are allowed anywhere in a yard provided, however,
that no individual wall shall exceed three feet in height, and a terrace of at
least three feet in width shall be provided between any series of such walls
and provided further that along a street frontage no such wall shall be closer
than three feet to the base setback line. A zoning permit for a retaining wall
is required.
      5.   Security Fences are allowed on the property lines in all districts
except residential districts, but shall not exceed ten feet in height and shall
be of an open type similar to woven wire or wrought iron fencing.
      6.   Accessory Uses and detached accessory structures are permitted in
the side and rear yard only; they shall not be closer than ten feet to the
principal structure, shall not exceed 15 feet in height, shall not occupy more
than 20 percent of the rear yard area, and shall not be closer than five feet
to any lot line nor ten feet to any alley line. See also section
35-21, which may modify these requirements.
      7.   Accessory structures other than buildings, i.e., windmills, play
structures, flag poles, and similar structures, shall not exceed in height
their distance from the nearest lot line, provided, however, that if the
applicant presents to the Plan Commission a report by a structural engineer
licensed by the State of Wisconsin certifying the fall-down radius of the
proposed structure to be less than its height, the allowed setback shall be
that certified distance.
      8.   Essential Services, utilities, electric power and communication
transmission: See section
35-21.
      9.   See also s. A.5. of this Section.
      10. 15    The Zoning Administrator may issue a zoning permit allowing a
projection, such as a wheelchair ramp, into a required yard if such a
projection is needed as a reasonable accommodation to allow ingress and egress
by a disabled person to the building, if that projection would be nonconforming
with the requirements of this Chapter, and:
         a.   The use of that particular entrance to the building is reasonably
necessary, and it would be unreasonable to use an alternate entrance to the
building for such ingress and egress;
         b.   The projection does not encroach on a public right of way or
neighboring property unless an easement for the encroachment is obtained by the
landowner and recorded with the Racine County Register of Deeds; and
         c.   Any such addition shall be removed within thirty (30) days from
the time that the structure is no longer serving the aforementioned handicapped
or disabled person. A deed restriction to this effect shall be recorded with
the Racine County Register of Deeds and proof of such recording shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator before a zoning permit will be issued;
and
         d.   There is a minimal intrusion into an environmental corridor.
Minimal intrusions into wetland, shoreland-wetland and floodplain districts are
allowed if not prohibited by the specific provisions of Chapters 36 and 37.
   C.   Average Setback. The required setbacks for new residential structures
or additions to existing residential structures may be decreased in any
residential district to the average of the existing setbacks of the abutting
structures on each side but in no case may be less than 15 feet.
   D.   Corner Lot. A corner lot is a lot that abuts two or more streets at
their intersections, provided that the corner of such intersections has an
angle of 135 degrees or less, measured on the lot side. There shall be two
street yards, one side yard and one rear yard on a corner lot. The Zoning
Administrator may determine the rear and side yards on the lot.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 4-10-2023)
 
Notes
15 15 Amended June 8, 2015, Ordinance #2015-1
35-190 ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL.
   No zoning permit required by this Municipal Code shall be issued unless it
has been approved by the Plan Commission pursuant to the Architectural Control
provisions of this Section unless the work to be performed under the zoning
permit is exempted from review under this section or this Code, or does not
change the exterior facade or character of the structure.
   A.   Compliance. For the purpose of promoting compatible development,
aesthetics, stability of property values, and to prevent impairment or
depreciation of property values in the Village of Rochester, no structure shall
hereafter be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or have its
exterior altered or changed in such a manner as to violate the principles set
forth in subsection B. of this Section.
   B.   Principles. To implement and define criteria for the purposes set forth
in subsection A, the following principles are established:
      1.   The design or exterior appearance of a building or sign which is of
such unorthodox or abnormal character in relation to its surroundings as to be
unsightly or offensive to generally accepted taste and community standards is
not permitted.
      2.   The design or exterior appearance of a building or sign which is so
identical with those adjoining as to create excessive monotony or drabness is
not permitted.
      3.   Any exposed facade or roof of a building or a sign that is not
constructed or faced with a finished material that is aesthetically compatible
with the other facades, roofs or signs and presents an attractive appearance to
the public and to surrounding properties is not permitted.
      4.   No building or sign shall be permitted to be sited on a property in
a manner which would unnecessarily destroy or substantially damage the natural
beauty of the area, particularly insofar as it would adversely affect values
incident to ownership of land in that area; or which would unnecessarily have
an adverse effect on the beauty and general enjoyment of existing structures on
adjoining properties.
   C.   Administration. The Zoning Administrator shall require that each zoning
permit application in any district be accompanied by plans showing the exterior
elevations of all existing and proposed structures on the property; a
description of the proposed materials to be used; and proposed floor elevations
of all structures.
      1.   The Zoning Administrator shall review permit applications for minor
exterior alterations, decks, accessory structures less than 200 square feet in
size, and signs pursuant to the standards set forth in Section
35-22 of this Chapter and subsection B. of this Section. If, in the Zoning
Administrator’s judgment and experience the standards have been met, he may
issue the permit according to the requirements of this Code. If, in the Zoning
Administrator’s judgment and experience the standards have not been met or are
in question, or he has a concern regarding the application of the standards, he
may, in his discretion, refer the application to the Plan Commission pursuant
to subsection C.2 of this Section.
      2.   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit all zoning permit
applications not exempted in subsection C.1. and their accompanying plans to
the Village Plan Commission for the Plan Commission’s review and determination,
with the exception that structures reviewed by the Historic Preservation
Committee pursuant to
Chapter 38, or reviewed previously via site plan or developer’s agreement; and
permits that do not affect the exterior structure may be excluded.
      3.   See also Section
35-22.
   D.   Review and Findings. The Plan Commission shall review the referred
plans at a subsequent meeting; but not more than 45 days after the original
application for a zoning permit. The Plan Commission shall not approve any
zoning permits unless it finds, after viewing the application that the
structure, as planned, will not violate the principles set forth in Section
35-22 of this Chapter and subsection B. of this Section. If an application is
rejected, the Commission shall set forth the reasons for the rejection in
writing.
   E.   Appeals. Any person or persons aggrieved by any decisions of the Plan
Commission related to architectural control may appeal the decision to the
Zoning Board of Appeals. Such appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk
within 30 days after the filing of the decision with the Zoning Administrator.
35-200 NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, PROPERTIES AND FIXTURES.
   A.   Nonconforming Uses. The lawful use of a building, structure, property
or fixture that existed at the time this Chapter or an applicable amendment to
this Chapter took effect and which is not in conformity with the provisions of
the Chapter, including the routine maintenance of such a building, structure or
property, may be continued, subject to the following conditions, exceptions and
regulations:
      1.   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve consecutive
months, any future use of the building, structure, property or fixture shall
conform to this Chapter.
      2.   Any legal nonconforming use of property which does not involve the
use of a structure and which existed at the time of the adoption or subsequent
amendment of this Chapter may be continued although such use does not conform
with the provisions of the Chapter. However, such nonconforming use may not be
extended or enlarged.
      3.   Total structural repairs or alterations in such a nonconforming
building, premises, structure or fixture shall not during its life exceed 50
percent of the assessed value of the building, premises, structure or fixture
unless it is permanently changed to conform to the use provision of this
Chapter.
      4.   A file of all non-conforming uses shall be maintained by the Zoning
Administrator listing the following: owner's name and address; tax
identification number, use of the buildings, premises, structures and fixtures,
and the accumulated value of any permitted repairs since becoming a non-
conforming use.
   B.    16  Nonconforming Structures.
      1.   Definitions. In this chapter:
         “Development Regulations” means the part of this Planning and Zoning
Code that applies to elements including setbacks, height, lot area, lot width,
lot coverage, yards, parking, loading, access, etc.
         “Nonconforming Structure” means a dwelling or other building that
existed lawfully before the current Planning and Zoning Code was enacted or
amended, but that does not conform with one or more of the development
regulations in the current Code.
      2.   Repair, rebuilding and maintenance of a nonconforming structure.
Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(h), the repair, maintenance, renovation, or
remodeling of a nonconforming structure may proceed without regard to the cost
of the work.
      3.    A nonconforming structure may not be extended, enlarged,
reconstructed, moved, structurally altered or expanded except when:
         a.   Such extension, enlargement, reconstruction, etc. is required by
law or so as to comply with the provisions of this Chapter; or
         b.   The change does not result in an increase to the nonconforming
nature of the structure. No such change may increase the parking requirements
for the use unless the on- site parking requirements of this Chapter are met.
      4.   Restoration or Replacement of Certain Nonconforming Structures.
Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(hc), a nonconforming structure that is
damaged beyond repair or destroyed may only be reconstructed in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter, except that such a structure may be
restored or replaced to the size, location and use that it had immediately
before the damage or destruction occurred as follows:
         a.   The damage or destruction occurred on or after March 2, 2006; and
         b.   The damage or destruction was caused by violent wind, vandalism,
fire, flood, ice, snow, mold, or infestation.
         c.   If the requirements of a. and b. are met, the size of the
structure may be larger than the size it was immediately before the damage or
destruction occurred if necessary for the structure to comply with applicable
state, federal and Village requirements.
   C.   Existing Nonconforming (Substandard) Properties.
      1.   Definition. ”Substandard lot” means a legally created lot or parcel
that met any applicable lot size requirements when it was created, but does not
meet current lot size requirements.
      2.   A substandard lot may be conveyed and may be used as a single
building site provided that the use is permitted in the district and the
following conditions are met:
         a.   The substandard lot or parcel has never been developed with one
or more of its structures placed partly upon an adjacent lot or parcel.
         b.   The substandard lot or parcel is developed to comply with all
other ordinances of the Village, including the provisions for private sewerage
systems required in Chapter 10 of this Code.
      3.   Construction on any substandard lot shall comply as nearly as
possible with all relevant district and shoreland requirements insofar as is
practicable, as determined by the relevant provisions of this Chapter, and with
the following guidelines:
 
Lot             Width  Minimum 30 ft.
               Area   Minimum 4,000 sq. ft.
Building        Height Maximum 30 ft.
Yard (Setbacks) Street Minimum 25 ft., the second street yard on corner lot
                       shall not be less than 10 feet
                       16 percent of the lot width, but not less than 5 Feet
               Side   nor greater than the zoning district side yard setback
                       requirement for a standard lot
               Rear   Minimum 25 ft.
 
      4.   A person may, but shall not be required, to combine a substandard
lot with another substandard lot, or a standard lot, for purposes of
development. Such lots may be combined into one lot by use of a deed
restriction, quit claim deed, or similar instrument, which shall be recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds. In the A-1 and A-3 agricultural
district, a farm owner is permitted to divide off separate parcels for the
residences of the parents or children of the farm owner, and such parcels shall
be considered as separate lots, must meet A-2 District zoning requirements and
shall not be considered substandard lots. The provisions of Chapter 30 apply to
these divisions.
      5.   Where public water supply systems are not available, private well
construction shall be required to conform to Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 812. Where
a public sewage collection and treatment system is not available, design and
construction of private sewage disposal systems shall be governed by Chapter
10, Public and Private Sewage Systems, of this Code. No private waste disposal
systems or parts thereof shall be located, installed, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted, substantially altered or their use changed
without full compliance with Chapter 10. A zoning permit for a principal
structure or an addition thereto may not be issued until evidence of such
compliance is provided to the Zoning Administrator.
 
Notes
16 16 Amended 8-6-2018, Ordinance #2018-5
35-210 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A.   Establishment. There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals
for the Village of Rochester for the purpose of hearing appeals and
applications, and granting variances and exceptions to the provisions of this
Chapter and other chapters of this Code as may be set forth therein.
   B.   Membership. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of five members
appointed by the Village President and confirmed by the Village Board. The
members shall serve for such compensation, if any, as may be fixed by the
Village Board. Removal shall be by a two-thirds vote of the Village Board and
after public hearing.
      1.   Terms shall be for staggered three-year periods; for those first
appointed, one shall serve for one year, two for two years, and two for three
years.
      2.   The Chair shall be designated by the Village President.
      3.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(e)2, the Village President shall
appoint, for staggered terms of three years, two alternate members of such
board, in addition to the five members above provided for. Annually, the
Village President shall designate one of the alternate members as First
Alternate and the other as Second Alternate. The First Alternate shall act,
with full power, only when a member of the board refuses to vote because of
interest or when a member is absent. The Second alternate shall so act only
when the First Alternate so refuses or is absent or when more than one member
of the board so refuses or is absent.
      4.   A secretary and other employees may be employed by the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
      5.   The Zoning Administrator shall attend all meetings for the purpose
of providing technical assistance, but shall not be secretary of the Board.
      6.   Official Oaths shall be taken by all members in accordance with Wis.
Stat. s. 19.01 within ten days of receiving notice of their appointments.
      7.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of all members,
including alternate members, in the same manner as appointments for a full
term.
   C.   Organization. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall organize and adopt
rules of procedure for its own government in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter.
      1.   Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chair and shall be open to
the public.
      2.   Minutes of the proceedings and a record of all actions shall be kept
by the secretary, showing the vote of each member upon each question, the
reasons for the Board's determination, and its finding of facts. These records
shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be public
record.
      3.   The Board of Appeals may take action if a quorum is present, by a
majority vote of the members present, to take any action authorized by statute
or this Code, unless a greater number of votes is required.
   D.   Powers.
      1.    17 The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the powers set forth in
Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(e) and all other powers provided by statute and Village
Code, including but not limited to the following powers:
         a.   Errors. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7) or any ordinance
adopted pursuant thereto.
         b.   Variances. To hear and decide appeals for variances as will not
be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement will result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
hardship, so that the spirit and purposes of this Code shall be observed and
the public safety, welfare, and justice secured and substantial justice done.
The Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize upon appeal variances where special
conditions, such as terrain cover or nearby existing or potential land or water
uses prevent applicant from meeting the provisions of this Chapter.
            (1)   In this section, “area variance” means a modification to a
dimensional, physical, or locational requirement such as a setback, frontage,
height, bulk, or density restriction for a structure that is granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals under this Section. In this section, “use variance”
means an authorization by the Zoning Board of Appeals for the use of land for a
purpose that is otherwise not allowed or is prohibited by the applicable zoning
ordinance.
            (2)   A property owner bears the burden of proving “unnecessary
hardship,” as that term is used in this section, for an area variance, by
demonstrating that strict compliance with a Zoning provisions would
unreasonably prevent the property owner from using the property owner’s
property for a permitted purpose or would render conformity with the zoning
ordinance unnecessarily burdensome or, for a use variance, by demonstrating
that strict compliance with a zoning ordinance would leave the property owner
with no reasonable use of the property in the absence of a variance. In all
circumstances, a property owner bears the burden of proving that the
unnecessary hardship is based on conditions unique to the property, rather than
considerations personal to the property owner, and that the unnecessary
hardship was not created by the property owner.
            (3)   A variance granted under this Section shall expire one year
after the date it was granted, or on a date specified by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, if the action authorized by the variance has not been commenced. What
constitutes commencement shall be specified by the Zoning Board of Appeals. If
the Zoning Board of Appeals does not specify an expiration date for the
variance, a variance granted under this section does not expire unless, at the
time it is granted, the Zoning Board of Appeals specifies in the variance a
specific date by which the action authorized by the variance must be commenced
or completed.
            (4)   A variance granted under this Section runs with the land.
         c.   Interpretations and Boundary Lines. To hear and decide
applications for interpretations of the zoning regulations and the boundaries
of the zoning districts after the Village Plan Commission has made a review and
recommendation.
         d.   Unclassified Uses and Special Exceptions. After the Plan
Commission has made a review and recommendation, to hear and decide
applications for unclassified and unspecified uses provided that such uses are
similar in character to the principal uses permitted in the district, and to
hear and decide applications for special exceptions provided that the waiver of
the zoning regulations are justified under the circumstances. When making a
decision on unclassified uses or special exceptions, the following provisions
apply:
            (1)   If an applicant meets or agrees to meet all of the
requirements and conditions specified in the Code or those imposed by the Plan
Commission or the Village Board, the ZBA shall grant the application. Any
condition imposed must be related to the purpose of the Code and be based on
substantial evidence.
            (2)   The requirements and conditions described under subsection a.
must be reasonable and, to the extent practicable, measurable and may include
conditions such as the approval’s duration, transfer, or renewal. The applicant
must demonstrate that the application and all requirements and conditions
established by the Village relating to the application are or shall be
satisfied, both of which must be supported by substantial evidence. The ZBA’s
decision to approve or deny the application must be supported by substantial
evidence, i.e., facts and information, other than merely personal preferences
or speculation, directly pertaining to the requirements and conditions an
applicant must meet to obtain approval and that reasonable persons would accept
in support of a conclusion.
            (3)   Once granted, the approval shall remain in effect as long as
the conditions upon which the approval was issued are followed, but the Village
may impose conditions such as the approval’s duration, transfer, or renewal, in
addition to any other conditions specified in the Code or by the Plan
Commission.
         e.   Temporary Uses. To hear and decide appeals of denied applications
for temporary use permits provided that such uses are of a temporary nature, do
not involve the erection of a substantial structure, and are compatible with
the neighboring uses, and the Village Plan Commission has made a review and
denied that application. The permit shall be temporary, revocable, subject to
any conditions required by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and shall be issued for
a period not to exceed 12 months. Compliance with all other provisions of this
Chapter shall be required.
         f.   Permits. In exercising the above mentioned powers such board may,
in conformity with the provisions of such section, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken, and may issue or direct the issue of a permit.
         g.   Other Appeals, Variances, Boundary Disputes, etc. See the
applicable chapter.
      2.   Assistance. The Board may request assistance from other Village
officers, departments, commissions, and boards.
      3.   Oaths. The Chair may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses.
   E.   Appeals and Applications. Appeals from the decision of the Zoning
Administrator or other official concerning the literal enforcement of this Code
may be made by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or
other body of the Village. Such appeals shall be filed with the secretary
within 30 days after the date of written notice of the decision or order of the
official. Applications may be made by the owner or lessee of the structure,
land, or water to be affected at any time and shall be filed with the
secretary. Such appeals and applications shall include the following:
      1.   Name and Address of the appellant or applicant and all abutting and
opposite property owners of record.
      2.   Plat of Survey prepared by a registered land surveyor, or a location
sketch drawn to scale, showing all of the information required under Section
35-11 for a Zoning Permit.
      3.   Additional Information required by the Village Plan Commission,
Village Engineer, Zoning Board of Appeals, Zoning Administrator or other
official. For regulations set forth in other chapters, see also the appropriate
Chapter.
   F.   Hearings. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time and
place for the required public hearing, and shall give notice as specified in
Section
35-240 of this Chapter unless a different notice is required by the appropriate
Chapter. See the appropriate Chapter for DNR hearing notice requirements for
shoreland-wetland, shoreland, floodplain, or other areas covered in a specific
chapter. At the hearing the appellant or applicant may appear in person, by
agent, or by attorney. Failure to appear may result in a decision based upon
the available information.
   G.   Findings. No variance to the provisions of this Code shall be granted
by the Board unless it finds beyond a reasonable doubt that all the following
facts and conditions exist and so indicates in the minutes of its proceedings.
      1.   Preservation of Intent. No variance shall be granted that is not
consistent with the purpose and intent of the regulations for the district in
which the development is located. No variance shall have the effect of
permitting a use in any district that is not a stated permitted use, accessory
use, or conditional use in that particular district.
      2.   Exceptional Circumstances. There must be exceptional, extraordinary,
or unusual circumstances or conditions applying to the lot or parcel,
structure, use, or intended use that do not apply generally to other properties
of uses in the same district and the granting of the variance would not be of
so general or recurrent nature as to suggest that the ordinances should be
changed.
      3.   Economic Hardship and Self-Imposed Hardship Not Grounds for
Variance. No variance shall be granted solely on the basis of economic gain or
loss. Self-imposed hardships shall not be considered as grounds for the
granting of a variance.
      4.   Absence of Detriment. No variance shall be granted that will create
substantial detriment to adjacent property and will materially impair or be
contrary to the purpose and spirit of this Chapter or the public interest.
      5.   Additional Requirements. Additional requirements for a variance may
be set forth in the applicable Chapter.
   H.   Decision. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall decide all appeals and
applications within 30 days after the final hearing and shall transmit a signed
copy of the Board's decision to the appellant or applicant, Zoning
Administrator, Village Plan Commission and/or other official. Conditions may be
placed upon any permit ordered or authorized by this Board. Variances,
Substitutions, or Use Permits granted by the Board shall expire within six
months unless substantial work has commenced pursuant to such grant. For
decisions regarding floodplain areas, see
Chapter 37.
   I.   Notice of Decision to DNR. See the appropriate Chapter for notice of
decision requirements for shoreland-wetland, shoreland, floodplain, or other
areas covered in a specific chapter.
   J.   Review by a Court of Record. Any person or persons aggrieved by any
decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals may present to the court of record a
petition duly verified setting forth that such decision is illegal and
specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to
the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
 
Notes
17 17 Amended 8-6-2018, Ordinance #2018-5
35-220 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   A.   Authority.
      1.   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good
zoning practice require, the Village Board of Trustees may, by ordinance,
change the district boundaries, land uses, or amend, change or supplement the
regulations established by this Chapter and other zoning and land use chapters,
and amendments thereto.
      2.   Such change or amendment shall be subject to the review and
recommendation of the Village Plan Commission.
      3.   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to other zoning and land
use chapters where no specific provisions are set forth in those chapters.
   B.   Initiation. A change or amendment may be initiated by the Village
Board, Village Plan Commission, Village Historic Preservation Committee, or by
a petition of one or more of the owners or lessees of property within the area
proposed to be changed. The petitioner shall pay the fee required prior to any
publication or hearing thereon, and no part thereof shall be returned to the
applicant regardless of the disposition of the petition.
   C.   Petitions. Petitions for any change to the district boundaries or
amendments to the regulations shall be filed with the Village Clerk, describe
the premises to be rezoned or the regulations to be amended, list the reasons
justifying the petition, and in case of a change of use, specify the proposed
use and have attached the following:
      1.   Plot plan drawn to scale showing the area proposed to be rezoned,
its location, its dimensions, the location and classification of adjacent
zoning districts, and the location and existing use of all properties within
300 feet of the area proposed to be rezoned.
      2.   Owner's names and addresses of all properties lying within 300 feet
of the area proposed to be rezoned.
      3.   Additional information required by the Village Plan Commission or
Village Board.
   D.   Recommendations. The Village Plan Commission shall review all proposed
changes and amendments within the corporate limits after signs have been posted
and notice has been sent to abutting property owners as set forth in s.
35-240 and the public has been given the opportunity for input, and shall
recommend that the petition be granted as requested, modified, or denied. The
recommendation shall be made at a meeting subsequent to the meeting at which
the petition is first submitted, and shall be made in writing to the Village
Board.
   E.   At the first Village Board meeting subsequent to initial consideration
by the Plan Commission, the Village Board shall determine whether to schedule a
public hearing for consideration of an ordinance to enact the change or
amendment.
   F..   Hearings. The Village Board shall hold a public hearing prior to
enacting any such ordinance, and shall give notice as required by applicable
state statutes, inclusive of notice to neighboring municipalities, the owner or
operator of an airport, or the DNR when applicable.
   G.   Village Board Action. Following such hearing and after careful
consideration of the Village Plan Commission's recommendation, the Village
Board shall vote on the proposed change or amendment.
   H.   Shoreland, Shoreland-Wetland and Floodplain District Boundary Changes
Limited. See the applicable Chapter of this Code.
   I.   Protest; Super-Majority Votes.
      1.   Airport Affected Area. If the proposed amendment would make any
change in an airport affected area, and no part of the area to be changed is
more than three miles from the airport, and the owner or operator of the
airport bordered by the airport affected area protests against the amendment,
the amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of two-
thirds of the of the members of the Village Board voting on the proposed
change. (Note: 2017 Wisconsin Act 243, Section 8., repealed the supermajority
requirement in the event of a protest against a proposed change effective 1-1-
2019. Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(d)2m.a. applies until 12-31-18.)
      2.   Down Zoning.
         a.   In this Code, “Down Zoning Ordinance” means a zoning ordinance
that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
            (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less
dense than was allowed under its previous usage.
            (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land, that are
specified in a zoning ordinance or other land use regulation, to fewer uses
than were allowed under its previous usage.
         b.   The Village Board may enact a down zoning ordinance only if the
ordinance is approved by at least two-thirds of its members-elect, except that
if the down zoning ordinance is requested, or agreed to, by the person who owns
the land affected by the proposed ordinance, the ordinance may be enacted by a
simple majority of the members-elect.
      3.   Notices of such tentative recommendations or proposed changes in the
regulations may contain the street names and house or lot numbers for purposes
of identification if the commission or board so determines.
   J.   Comprehensive Plan. All proposed ordinances must be reviewed for
compliance with the November 2009 “A Multi-Jurisdictional; Comprehensive Plan
for Racine County: 2035” as amended from time to the (the “Village
Comprehensive Plan”) adopted by and applicable to the Village of Rochester. No
change may be adopted in violation of Wis. Stat. s. 66.1001(3), which requires
that zoning ordinances be consistent with the adopted plan.
35-230 PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL
   A.   Building Site and Operational Plans. Where required: In the case of
certain uses, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, the character of which
could have substantial adverse impact on surrounding property values or public
highway facilities by reason of the arrangement of structures and related uses
on the land including the total appearance of said arrangement or by
arrangement of access from public streets to off-street parking and loading
facilities, or where specifically directed in this Chapter, it will be required
as a qualifying condition to their permissibility to submit for approval by the
Plan Commission their proposed building site and operational plans.
   B.   Use by Right Not Infringed: Such required approval under this Section
shall be limited solely to reasonable compliance with design, locational and
operational requirements and shall not involve the basic permissibility of the
use where such use is permitted as a “permitted use”.
   C.   Acceptability Criteria. In determining the acceptability of the
building, site or operational plans, the Plan Commission shall take into
consideration the following factors as well as any others it deems related:
      1.   The general design and appearance of any structures in terms of
generally accepted standards of good taste, particularly in terms of the
relationship and effect upon surrounding properties and compliance with this
Chapter.
      2.   The relationship of structures and uses to each other and to the
site, with particular consideration of traffic flow, access, screening of
parking and storage areas and general appearance.
      3.   The character of the operation in terms of its impact upon traffic
facilities, sewage disposal, water supply and environmental character with
particular consideration of the control of any possible noise, dust, odor or
other undesirable operating characteristic, including compliance with the
Performance Standards of Section
35-250. The Plan Commission shall take into account the recommendations of the
Western Racine County Sewerage District related to pre-treatment of sewage, the
requirement for testing manholes, and other sewage disposal issues, if those
recommendations are received by the Plan Commission.
   D.   Form of Submittal.
      1.   A site plan of the property accurately dimensioned showing the
location of all existing and proposed structures and use area showing
conformance with 35-22 B. “Site Planning and Design Principles”; s. 35-22 C.
“Building, Design, Layout and Construction Principles”; and 35-22 D. “Site
Planning and Design Standards.”
      2.   Name of project.
      3.   Owner's and/or developer's name, physical address, and email
address.
      4.   Architect and/or engineer's name, physical address, and email
address.
      5.   Date of plan submittal.
      6.   Existing topography shown at a contour interval not less than two
feet, or where not readily available elevations at appropriate locations.
      7.   Proposed changes in topography showing conformance with
Ch. 32 Post Construction Stormwater Management and Ponds; and Ch.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Principles”, subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping."
      8.   The characteristics of soils related to contemplated uses.
      9.   The type, size, location, height, and dimensions of all structures
including fences and walls showing conformance with all provisions of the
underlying zoning district, such as lot width and area, setbacks, yards,
building heights, etc.; Ch. 35, s.
35-190 “Architectural Control”;
35-22 B. “Site Planning and Design Principles”; s.
35-22 C. “Building, Design, Layout and Construction Principles”; and
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards,” subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping."
      10.   Primary building materials used in construction of all structures
showing conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-190 “Architectural Control” and s.
35-22 “Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects,” subsection C. “Building, Design, Layout and Construction
Principles.”
      11.   Architectural plans, elevations, and perspective drawings and
sketches illustrating the design and character of proposed structures.
      12.   Location and number of parking stalls and loading and storage areas
showing conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-160 “Traffic, Parking & Access”; s.
35-161 “Parking Requirements”; s.
35-162 “Driveways”; and s.
35-22 “Principles and Standards for the Aesthetic Evaluation of Site and
Building Projects,” subsection D. “Site Planning and Design Standards,”
subsection 4. “Parking area requirements.”
      13.   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, septic
tanks and disposal fields, holding tanks, storm sewers and water mains showing
conformance with
Ch. 10 "Public and Private Sewer Systems";
Ch. 32 “Chapter 32 Post Construction Stormwater    Management and Ponds”; and
Ch.
35-15 "Site Restrictions" subsection F. regulating private well construction.
      14.   Location of proposed solid waste (refuse) and recycling storage
areas showing conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards,” subsection 9. “Location and
Design of Loading Facilities and Waste Storage.”
      15.   Location of pedestrian sidewalks and walkways showing conformance
with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards,” subsection 6. “Pedestrian
Flows.”
      16.   Existing and proposed public right-of-way widths for conformance
with Ch. 35, s.
35-160 “Traffic, Parking & Access”; and Ch. 30, s. 30-82 "Street Plans,
Improvements and Standards."
      17.   Location, type, height and intensity of proposed lighting showing
conformance with Ch. 35, s.
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Standards”, subsection 7. “Outdoor
Lighting."
      18.   Location of existing trees and extent, and type of proposed
plantings including type and    extent of erosion control showing conformance
with
Ch. 32 “Chapter 32 Post Construction Stormwater Management and Ponds”; and
35-22 D. “Site Planning and Design Principles”, subsections 2. and 3. “Open
Space Requirements” and “Site Landscaping.”
      19.   A graphic delineation of any planned development staging.
      20.   Any other site or use information, such as 100-year internal flood
lines, which will assist    the Plan Commission in making a determination and
recommendation on the proposal. Conditional uses in the Shoreland-Wetland and
Floodplain Districts are required to submit plans showing conformance with
Ch. 36, “Shoreland-Wetland and Shoreland Zoning Districts” and
Ch. 37, “Floodplain Zoning.”
      21.   Operations plan data to be submitted with all plan review
applications shall include at least the following:
         a.   Specific use of site and building(s).
         b.   Hours of operations.
         c.   Number of full and part time employees.
         d.   Estimate of daily truck and auto trips to the site.
         e.   Type of materials and equipment to be stored on site.
         f.   Method of handling solid and liquid waste disposal.
         g.   Method of exterior maintenance (site and buildings).
         h.   Method of site and building security other than local police.
         i.   Copies of all special use permits issued by state or county
agencies.
         j.   Any other information which will assist the Plan Commission in
making a determination and recommendation of the proposal.
   E.   Time for Submittal; WRCSD Review.
      1.   Time for Submittal. The information required in this section shall
be submitted to the Village Clerk no later than 20 days prior to the Plan
Commission meeting at which it will be reviewed.
      2.   WRCSD Review. Within five days of submittal of a Building Site and
Operational Plan, the Clerk shall forward a copy of said Plan to the Western
Racine County Sewerage District (WRCSD), and shall inform WRCSD of the date
that said Plan will be considered by the Plan Commission. If no recommendation
by the WRCSD is received by the date that the Plan Commission reviews the Plan,
the Plan Commission may take action without input from the WRCSD.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
35-240 NOTIFICATION - PUBLIC HEARINGS.
 1  Notice of any public hearing which the Plan Commission, Village Board or
Zoning Board of Appeals is required to hold under the terms of this Ordinance
shall specify the date, time and place of said hearing and shall state the
matter to be considered at said hearing. Notice shall be provided as required
by applicable state statutes, inclusive of Class 2 notice prior to
consideration of Planning and Zoning changes by the Village Board, Conditional
Use Permits by the Village Board, and Zoning Board of Appeals hearings, along
with notice to neighboring municipalities, the owner or operator of an airport,
or the DNR where applicable. The following notifications shall be required in
addition to the notice required by statute:
   A.   Posting of Signs.
      1.   Except as set forth in subsection 2., at least fourteen days prior
to initial Plan Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals review, an applicant for
a conditional use permit, zoning change or land division review shall post one
or more signs, clearly visible from each adjoining road, advising of the
pending conditional use, zoning change, or land division review. The signs
shall remain in place until the day after final determination by the Plan
Commission, Village Board, or Zoning Board of Appeals. The signs shall be
provided by the Village and shall be returned by the applicant no later than
two days after the public hearing. Improper posting may result in the Plan
Commission delaying consideration until a later meeting.
      2.   In the event that the Village rezones more than 20 parcels of land
as part of a Village- initiated rezoning, no signs shall be required, but
notice to owners of the property being rezoned shall be provided as set forth
in subsection B.2.
   B.   Written Notice.
      1.   Except as set forth in subsection 2., 14 days prior to initial Plan
Commission review of an application for conditional use, zoning change, or land
division, the Clerk shall send a written notice to the property owner and to
the property owners abutting the subject property, including abutting owners on
the opposite side of the street, advising of the date of the meeting when the
proposal will first be considered.
      2.   In the event that the Village rezones more than 20 parcels of land
as part of a Village- initiated rezoning related to state or federal
requirements, or related to the adoption of a Planning and Zoning Ordinance
with associated changes to the zoning designations to be reflected on the
Zoning Map, written notice to abutting property owners shall not be required.
The Clerk shall send a written notice to the owners of the property being
rezoned, advising of the date of the public hearing when the rezoning will be
considered.
      3.   No individual notice to property owners is required when the Village
makes text changes to the Planning and Zoning Ordinance without changing the
zoning designation of individual parcels. The Village shall provide all notices
required by Wisconsin Statutes.
      4.   The Village shall maintain a list of persons who submit a written
request to receive notice of any proposed zoning action that affects the
allowable use of that person’s property and shall send the person notice as
required by Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)d.4., but the applicable ordinance or
amendment may take effect even if the Village fails to send such notice.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
 
Notes
1 18 Amended 8-6-2018, Ordinance #2018-5
35-250 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   A.   Compliance. The performance standards enumerated below are designated
to limit, restrict and prohibit the effects of uses permitted by this Chapter
outside their premises. The use of all structures, lands, air and water shall
hereafter, in addition to complying with the use, site and sanitary regulations
contained in this Chapter, shall comply with the performance standards in this
Section.
   B.   Air Pollution. No activity shall be permitted which emits air
pollutants in excess of the standards permitted by all applicable laws,
regulations and ordinances.
   C.   Fire and Explosive Hazards. All activities involving the manufacturing,
utilization, processing or storage of inflammable and explosive materials shall
be provided with adequate safety devices against the hazard of fire and
explosion and with fire-fighting and fire-suppression equipment and devices
that are required by law and standard in the industry. All materials that range
from active to intense burning shall be manufactured, utilized, processed, and
stored only in compliance with state and federal law.
   D.   Glare and Heat. No activity shall emit glare or heat that is visible or
measurable outside the premises, except activities in the industrial district
which may emit sky reflected glare which shall not be visible at ground level
outside the premises.
   E.    Water Quality Protection. No activity shall locate, store, discharge
or permit the discharge of any treated, untreated or inadequately treated
liquid, gaseous or solid materials of such nature, quantity, obnoxiousness,
toxicity or temperature that might run off, seep, percolate or wash into
surface or subsurface waters so as to contaminate, pollute or harm such waters
or cause nuisances such as objectionable shore deposits, floating or submerged
debris, oil or scum, color, odor, taste or unsightliness or be harmful to
human, animal, plant or aquatic life. In addition, no activity shall withdraw
water or discharge any liquid, gaseous, or solid materials so as to exceed or
contribute toward the exceeding of the standards set by state and federal law.
   F.   Noise.
      1.   No activity in an M-1 Industrial District shall produce a sound
level outside the property boundary that exceeds the following sound level
measured by a sound level meter and associated octave band filter:
Octave Band Frequency (Cycles per second) Sound Level Decibels
Octave Band Frequency (Cycles per second) Sound Level Decibels
0 to <75                                  79
75 to <150                                74
150 to <300                               66
300 to <600                               59
600 to <1200                              53
1200 to <2400                             47
2400 to <4800                             41
4800 and above                            39
 
      2.   No other activity in any other district shall produce a sound level
outside its premises that exceeds the following:
Octave Band Frequency (Cycles per second) Sound Level Decibels
Octave Band Frequency (Cycles per second) Sound Level Decibels
0 to <75                                  72
75 to <150                                67
150 to <300                               59
300 to <600                               52
600 to <1200                              46
1200 to <2400                             40
2400 to <4800                             34
4800 and above                            32
 
      3.   All noise shall be so muffled or otherwise controlled as not to
become objectionable due to intermittence, duration, beat frequency, impulse
character, periodic character or shrillness.
   G.   Odors. No activity shall emit any odorous matter of such nature or
quantity as to be offensive, obnoxious or unhealthful outside their premises.
   H.   Radioactivity and Electrical Disturbances. No activity shall emit
radioactivity or electrical disturbances outside its premises that are
dangerous or adversely affect the use of neighboring premises including radio
and television receiver operation, except as set forth in this Chapter.
   I.   Vibration. No activity in any district shall emit vibrations which are
discernible without instruments outside its premises. No activity in any
district shall emit vibrations which exceed the following displacement measured
with a three-component measuring system:
 
Frequency           Outside the Premises
(Cycles per second)
0 to <10            .0020
10 to <20           .0010
20 to <30           .0006
30 to <40           .0004
40 to <50           .0003
50 & over           .0002
 
35-260 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   A.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this Chapter
to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere with any existing easements,
covenants, deed restrictions, agreements, or permits previously issued pursuant
to laws. However, wherever this Chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this Chapter shall govern.
   B.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this Chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the Village and shall not be deemed a limitation or
repeal of any other power granted by the Wisconsin Statutes.
   C.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
Chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this Chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   C.   Repeal. All other ordinances or parts of ordinances of the Village and
the previous Town of Rochester inconsistent or conflicting with this Chapter,
to the extent of the inconsistency only, are hereby repealed.
35-300 DEFINITIONS.
GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words or phrases shall have meanings
that either vary somewhat from their customary dictionary meaning or are
intended to be interpreted to have a specific meaning. Words used in the
present tense in this Chapter include the future. The word "person"
includes a firm, association, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as
well as an individual. The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "should" is
advisory, and the word "may" is permissive. Any words not defined in this
Article shall be presumed to have their customary dictionary definitions, or as
defined by statute or in state and village building codes.
SPECIFIC WORDS AND PHRASES
“Accessory Use, Building or Structure” means a use, building or structure
which:
   A.   Is or will be subordinate to, and serves, a principal use, building or
structure;
   B.   Is or will be subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
use, building or structure served;
   C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity or occupants of
the principal use, building or structure; and
   D.   Is or will be located on the same zoning lot as the principal use,
building or structure.
An automobile, trailer or other vehicle or part thereof, or other building used
as a temporary or permanent dwelling or lodging place shall not be considered
an accessory building or use.
“Adult Bath House” means an establishment or business which provides the
services of baths of all kinds, including all forms and methods of
hydrotherapy, that is not operated by a medical practitioner or a professional
physical therapist licensed by the state and which establishment provides to
its patrons an opportunity for engaging in "specified sexual activities."
“Adult Body Painting Studio” means an establishment or business wherein patrons
are afforded an opportunity to paint images on a "specified anatomical area."
For purposes of this chapter, the adult body painting studio shall not be
deemed to include a tattoo parlor.
“Adult Bookstore” means an establishment or business having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock and trade in books, magazines, and other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
“Adult Booth” means any area of an adult establishment set off from the
remainder of such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials
or to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of "specified anatomical
areas" or the conduct or simulation of "specified sexual activities."
“Adult Cabaret” means any nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which features:
   A.   Live performances which are characterized or distinguished by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or the removal of articles of
clothing; or
   B.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, digital video disks, video
reproductions, slides or other visual presentations which are distinguished or
characterized by depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
“Adult Establishments” means and includes, but is not limited to: adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters (indoor or outdoor), adult mini-
motion picture theaters, adult video stores, adult bath houses, adult motels,
adult theatres, adult novelty shops, adult massage parlors, adult modeling
studios, adult body painting studios, and adult cabarets.
“Adult Massage Parlor” means an establishment or business with or without
sleeping accommodations which provides services including any method of
rubbing, pressing, stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or
stimulating a "specified anatomical area" with the hands or with any
instruments, heat and light treatments of the body, and all forms and methods
of physiotherapy not operated by a medical practitioner or professional
physical therapist licensed by the state.
“Adult Mini Motion Picture Theater” means an enclosed building with a capacity
for less than 50 persons used for presenting materials distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
“Adult Modeling Studio” means any establishment or business where a person who
displays "specified anatomical areas" and is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons who pay money or any form of consideration. Adult modeling studios
shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of Wisconsin or a
college, technical college, or university; or in a structure:
   A.   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
   B.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
   C.   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises at
any one time.
“Adult Motel” means hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic or video reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult-type of
photographic or video reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten hours.
“Adult Motion Picture Theater” means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50
or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
“Adult Motion Picture Theater (Outdoor)” means a parcel of land from which
individuals may view a motion picture presented out of doors which presents
material distinguishably characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activity" or "specified anatomical
areas.”
“Adult Novelty Shop” means an establishment or business having as a substantial
or significant portion of its stock and trade in novelty or other items which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on or designed for
"specified sexual activity" or stimulating such activity.
“Adult Theater” means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or semi-nudity, or live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
“Adult Video Store” means an establishment or business having as a substantial
or significant portion of its stock and trade for sale or rental of motion
pictures or other visual media which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
“Advertising Sign” means a sign that pertains to goods sold or manufactured or
services rendered on the premises upon which the sign is located.
”Airport Affected Area” means the area of the Village lying within three miles
of the boundaries of an airport, as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(6)(am)1.b.
“Alley” means a special public right-of-way affording only secondary access to
abutting properties.
“Alteration” means an enhancement, upgrade or substantial change or
modification, other than an addition or repair to a dwelling or to electrical,
plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning and other systems within a
structure.
“Animal Units”: See
Chapter 39
“Animated Sign” means any sign or part of a sign that changes physical position
or light intensity by any movement or rotation or that gives the visual
impression of such movement or rotation.
“Arterial Street” means a public street or highway used or intended to be used
primarily for fast or heavy through traffic. Arterial streets and highways
shall include freeways and expressways as well as arterial streets, highways
and parkways.
“Asphalt and/or Tar Paving Mix Plant” means a plant wherein asphalt, tar or
other petroleum products or byproducts are prepared or mixed, wither alone or
with other ingredients, as a material for paving or surfacing.
“Automobile Wrecking Yard” means any premises on which more than one automotive
vehicle, not in running or operating condition, is stored in the open.
“Back-to-Back,” “Side-by-side,” “Bottom-to-top,” and “V-Shaped Signs” are signs
that are physically contiguous and share a common structure, in whole or in
part, or are located not more than 15 feet apart at their nearest point in
cases of "back-to-back" or "V-shaped."
“Balcony” means a platform that projects from the wall of a building four feet
or less, is surrounded by a railing or balustrade, is open and roofless, and
which is suspended or cantilevered from, or supported solely by, the structure
to which it is attached.
“Banner” means any sign of lightweight fabric, plastic, coated paper, or
similar material not enclosed in a rigid frame that is mounted to a pole or a
structure at one or more edges. Flags or pennants are not considered banners.
“Basement” means a story partly or wholly underground. The height of a basement
shall be the vertical distance between the surface of the basement floor and
the floor next above it.
“Beacon” or “Search Light)” means any light with one or more beams that rotate
or move or any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source.
“Bed & Breakfast” or “B & B”  means a residential property that offers short-
term overnight sleeping accommodations in exchange for compensation.
“Billboard” means a sign that directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located,
“Boarders” are any unrelated persons, other than the owner, living within a
single household unit and paying compensation for such service.
“Boarding House” means a building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals
or lodging are regularly furnished by prearrangement for compensation for four
or more persons not members of a family, but not exceeding 12 persons and not
open to transient customers.
“Brew Pub” means a restaurant that manufactures up to 5,000 barrels of
fermented malt beverages per year on premises for either consumption on
premises or sale in hand-capped or sealed containers in quantities up to one-
half barrel or 15½ gallons sold directly to the consumer.
“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used
or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery, or materials.
“Building Area” means the total living areas bounded by the exterior walls of a
building at the floor levels, but not including unfinished basement, utility
rooms, garages, porches, breezeways, or unfinished attics.
"Building Height" of a residential structure or any structure within a
residential district shall be measured from the finished yard grade along the
street yard face of the structure to the peak of the roof. Building height of
nonresidential structures in nonresidential districts shall be measured from
the mean elevation of the finished yard grade along the street yard face of the
structure to the highest point of flat roofs; to the mean height level between
eaves and ridges of gable, gambrel, hip and pitch roofs; or the deck line of
mansard roofs.
“Bus Shelter” means a small, roofed structure, usually having three walls,
located near a street and designed primarily for the protection and convenience
of bus passengers.
“Campground” means any parcel of land which is designed, maintained, intended
or used for the purpose of providing sites for nonpermanent overnight use by
four or more camping units, or which is advertised or represented as a camping
area.
“Camping Unit” means any portable device, no more than 400 square feet in area,
used as a temporary shelter, including but not limited to a camping trailer,
motor home, bus, van, pick-up truck, tent or other mobile recreational vehicle.
“Canopy Sign” means any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy,
or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover. A marquee is not a
canopy. The overhead protective cover used for fuel pumps is considered a
canopy.
“Certificate of Compliance” means a certification that the construction and the
use of land or a building, the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a
structure is in compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter or other
land use chapters.
 19 “Changeable Copy Sign” means a sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters, or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering
the face or the surface of the sign not more than once every four seconds or
the minimum standards set by the State and Federal Highway Administration,
whichever is longer. Each change of message shall be accomplished in one second
or less. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or
mechanical indication of time, date, or temperature is considered a "time and
temperature" portion of a sign and not a changeable copy sign or traveling
message sign.
“Clear Cutting” means the removal of an entire stand or area of trees or
shrubs. See
Chapter 36
“Clothing Repair Shops” means shops where clothing is repaired, such as shoe
repair shops, seamstresses, tailor shops, shoe shine shops, clothes pressing
shops, but none employing over five persons.
“Clothing Stores” means retail stores where clothing is sold, such as
department stores, dry goods, stores, shoe stores, dress shops, hosiery shops
and millinery shops.
“Commercial Vehicle” has the meaning as defined by Wisconsin Statutes Section
340.01(8).
“Concrete Ready Mix Plant” means a plant where water, gravel, sand, crushed
stone, or other aggregate is mixed with cement and placed within a truck or
trucks for the purpose of mixing such ingredients and to create and manufacture
concrete thereby while said truck is in transit to its ultimate point of
delivery.
“Conservation Standards” means guidelines and specifications for soil and water
conservation practices and management enumerated in the Technical Guide
prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, for
Racine County, adopted by the county soil and water conservation district
supervisors, and containing suitable alternatives for the use and treatment of
land based upon its capabilities, from which the landowner selects that
alternative which best meets his needs in developing his soil and water
conservation plan.
“Core Area of Living Space” means that area or space within a dwelling unit,
devoted to the principal residential use of the structure, excluding attached
garages, porches, sheds, decks, carports, and other appurtenances.
“Corner Lot” means a lot abutting two or more streets at their intersections
provided that the corner of such intersection shall have an angle of 135
degrees or less, measured on the lot side.
“Crawlways” and “Crawl Spaces” mean an enclosed area below the first usable
floor of a building, generally less than five feet in height, used for access
to plumbing and electrical utilities.
“Day Care Center” means a Day Care Center, Child Care Center, or Family Day
Care Home establishment providing care and supervision for four or more persons
under the age of seven and licensed by the State of Wisconsin pursuant to Wis.
Stat. ch. 48.
“Decibel” means a unit for measuring the relative loudness of a sound
(abbreviated dB) measured on an "A" weighted decibel scale.
“Deck” means an unenclosed exterior structure that has no roof or sides, but
has a permeable floor which allows the infiltration of precipitation.
“Density Bonus” means the allocation of development rights that allow a parcel
to accommodate additional square footage or additional residential units beyond
the maximum for which the parcel is zoned or beyond the net density established
in the adopted land use plan, usually in exchange for the provision or
preservation of an amenity at the same site or at another location.
“Density Net” means the numerical value obtained by dividing the total number
of dwelling units in a development by the area of the actual tract of land (in
acres) upon which the dwelling units are proposed to be located and including
common open space and associated recreational facilities within the area; the
result being the number of dwelling units per net residential acres of land.
Net density calculations exclude all or a portion of the area occupied by
rights-of-way of publicly dedicated streets and private streets, floodplains,
wetlands, and water.
“Department” or “DNR” means the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
“Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to construction of or additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, or other structures, or accessory uses, the
placement of manufactured or mobile homes, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or deposition of materials.
“Directional Sign” means any auxiliary sign that is limited to directional
messages principally for assisting in the flow of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, such as enter, exit, and one way.
“Directory Sign” means a sign listing the tenants or occupants of a building or
group of buildings and that may indicate their respective professions or
business activities.
“Displaced Threshold” means a horizontal line on a runway, perpendicular to the
runway centerline. Departing aircraft must be airborne before crossing the
displaced threshold. Incoming aircraft may not touch down before crossing the
displaced threshold.
“District, Basic” means a part or parts of the Village for which the
regulations of this Chapter governing the use and location of land and
buildings are uniform.
“District, Overlay:” Overlay districts provide for the possibility of super-
imposing certain additional requirements upon a basic zoning district without
disturbing the requirements of the basic district. In the instance of
conflicting requirements, the more strict of the conflicting requirements shall
apply.
 20 “Driveway” means a private access to a single parcel having public or
private street or road frontage.
 21 “Driveway, Shared” means a shared access that serves two separate parcels,
each with public or private street frontage.
“Dwelling” means a detached building designed or used exclusively as a
residence or living place, but does not include boarding or lodging houses,
motels, hotels, tents, cabins, or travel trailers.
“Dwelling, Single-Family” means a detached building designed for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
“Dwelling, Two-Family” means a detached building containing two separate
dwelling units, designed for and/or occupied by not more than two families.
“Dwelling, Multiple-Family” means a residential building containing three or
more separate dwelling units designed for and/or occupied by three or more
families, with the number of families in residence not to exceed the number of
dwelling units provided.
“Efficency” means a dwelling unit consisting of one principal room with no
separate sleeping rooms.
“Elevation” means, as appropriate for the context, either:
   A.   The height in feet above National Geodetic Datum of 1929, also known as
mean sea level datum; or
   B.   A scale drawing of the front, side or rear of a structure.
“Emergency Shelter” means a public or private enclosure designed to protect
people from aerial, radiological, biological or chemical warfare, fire, flood,
windstorm, riots and/or invasions.
“Essential Services” means services provided by public and private utilities,
necessary for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal
structure. These services include underground, surface, or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, water, sanitary sewerage, storm water drainage, and
communication systems and accessories thereto, such as poles, towers, wires,
mains, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water
storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, pumps, lift stations, and hydrants, but not including buildings.
“Exception” or “Special Exception” means a special or unique situation,
excluding a change in use or a use prohibited in a zoning district, which may
be authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals and which may justify the waiver
of the regulations applicable thereto and does not necessarily require the
demonstration of an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty.
“Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a parcel of land divided
into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale, on which the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots is completed before the
effective date of this Chapter. At a minimum, this would include the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads
"Expansion of Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision" means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed. This includes
installation of utilities, construction of streets and either final site
grading, or the pouring if concrete pads.
“Expressway” means a divided arterial street or highway designated by the State
as an expressway as set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 84.295.
“FAA” means the Federal Aviation Administration.
“Face” means the surface of a sign upon which the message is displayed. One
sign structure may have more than one face.
“Family” means one or more persons occupying the premises and living together
as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a
boardinghouse, lodging house, club fraternity or hotel.
“Fixture” means an article in the nature of personal property which has been so
annexed to the realty that it is regarded as a part of the real property; that
which is fixed or attached to something permanently as an appendage and is not
removable. A thing is deemed to be affixed to real property when it is attached
to it by roots, imbedded in it, permanently resting upon it, or permanently
attached to what is thus permanent, as by means of cement, plaster, nails,
bolts, or screws. Goods are fixtures when they become so related to particular
real estate that an interest in them arises under real estate law, e.g., a
furnace affixed to a house or other building, counters permanently affixed to
the floor of a store, or a sprinkler system installed in a building. A sign
permanently affixed to the land or a structure is a fixture.
“Flag” means any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or
symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, school, or to
indicate membership in a non-profit organization.
“Flashing Sign” means any directly or indirectly illuminated sign on which the
natural or artificial light is not maintained stationary or constant in
intensity and color at all times when such sign is in use. This definition
includes parts that move while the light remains constant, giving the
impression of changing or flashing lights. Intermittent signs only providing
information such as time, date, and temperature and changeable copy signs as
defined herein are not considered "flashing signs."
“Floodplain” and all definitions related to floodplains: see
Chapter 37.
“Frontage” means the dimension of a lot abutting a public street measured along
the street right- of-way line. For lots abutting a lake or stream, the smallest
dimension measured along the shoreline.
“Garage, Private” means a structure primarily intended for and used for the
enclosed storage or shelter of the private motor vehicles of the residents of
the premises.
“Garage, Public or Commercial” means any garage other than a private garage.
“Gift Store” means a retail store where items such as art, antiques, jewelry,
books and notions are sold.
“Gravel Pit”, “Sand Pit” means any place where gravel or sand is removed from
its natural state of deposit by digging, pushing, or any other method, and sold
or held for sale or distribution.
“Greenhouse” means a building or structure constructed chiefly of glass,
glasslike or translucent material, cloth or lath, which is devoted to the
protection or cultivation of flowers, shrubbery, vegetables, trees and other
horticultural and floricultural products.
“Greenhouse (Commercial)” means a greenhouse used for the growing of plants,
all or part of which are sold at retail or wholesale.
“Ground Sign” or “Monument Sign” means any permanent free-standing sign, other
than a pole sign, in which the entire bottom is in contact with or is close to
the ground and which does not exceed 15 feet in height.
“Habitable Structure” means any structure or portion thereof used or designed
for human habitation.
“Hardware Store” means a retail store where items such as plumbing, heating and
electrical supplies, sporting goods or paints are sold.
“Hearing Notice” means a publication or posting meeting the requirements of
Wis. Stat. ch. 985. For appeals, a Class 1 notice, published once at least one
week (7 days) before the hearing, is required. For all zoning ordinances and
amendments, a Class 2 notice, published twice, once each week consecutively,
the last at least a week (7 days) before the hearing. Additional requirements
set forth in this Chapter and other land uses chapters apply.
“Historic Structure” means any structure that is either:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
or by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
“Hotel” means a building in which lodging, with or without meals, is offered to
transient guests for compensation and in which there are more than five
sleeping rooms, with no cooking facilities in any room or apartment.
“Household Occupation” means any occupation for gain or support conducted
entirely within buildings by resident occupants which is customarily incidental
to the principal use of the premises, does not exceed twenty-five percent of
the area of any floor, uses only household equipment, and no stock in trade is
kept or sold except that made on the premises. A household occupation includes
uses such as babysitting, millinery, dressmaking, canning, laundering, and
crafts, but does not include the display of any goods nor such occupations as
barbering, beauty shops, dance schools, real estate brokerage, or photographic
studios.
“Hub Height” (referring to a wind turbine) means the distance measured from
ground level to the center of the turbine hub.
“In-law Suite” means a physical arrangement of a dwelling unit in such a
fashion that a separate living quarters is created within a dwelling unit for
the sole purpose of allowing related persons to live in the secondary living
area while that owner and his or her family resides in the principal living
area. The secondary living area may contain a bedroom, bathroom and kitchenette
which permits a limited degree of independence, but does not create a separate
housekeeping entity.
“Junkyard” or “Salvage Yard” means any premises on which there is an
accumulation of scrap metal, paper, rags, glass, lumber, inoperable machinery,
inoperable vehicles, tires or other materials that are stored or customarily
stored for salvage, buying, selling, exchanging , dealing, disassembling,
packing, bailing, wrecking, or handling unless such accumulation is housed in a
completely enclosed building.
“Kennel”: see s.
9-1.L. of this Municipal Code.
“Kitchen” means a place (such as a room) with cooking facilities including
kitchen-type counters and/or cabinets, a kitchen sink, or any appliances for
the preparation or preservation of food, including but not limited to, gas or
electric ranges, ovens or stovetops, microwave ovens, refrigerators with more
than five cubic feet of capacity, or freezers.
“Kitchenette” means a small kitchen or an alcove containing minimal cooking
facilities.
“Land Use” means any nonstructural or structural use made of unimproved or
improved real estate. (See also “Development.”
“Livestock Facility” and related definitions, see
Chapter 39.
“Living Rooms” means all rooms within a dwelling except closets, foyers,
storage areas, utility rooms and bathrooms.
“Loading Space” means an off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings and abutting on or affording
direct access to a public street or alley, for the temporary parking of
commercial vehicles while loading or unloading cargo.
“Lot” means a parcel of land having frontage on a public street or a private
street providing public street access, occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal structure or use and sufficient in size to meet the lot width, lot
frontage, lot area, yard, parking area, and other open space provisions of this
Chapter, provided that no such parcel shall be bisected by a public street, and
shall not include any portion of a public right-of-way. No lands dedicated to
the public or reserved for easements greater than 20 feet or for roadway
purposes shall be included in the computation of lot size for the purposes of
this Chapter.
“Lot, Corner” means a lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection
provided that the corner of such intersection shall have an angle of 135
degrees or less, measured on the lot side.
“Lot, Double Frontage” means a parcel of land, other than a corner lot, with
frontage on more than one street or with frontage on a street and a navigable
body of water. Double frontage lots, located between two streets for the
purpose of this Code, shall be deemed to have two street yards and no rear yard
and double frontage lots located between a street and a navigable body of
water, for the purpose of this Chapter, shall be deemed to have a street yard
and a shore yard and no rear yard.
“Lot Lines and Area” means the peripheral boundaries of a parcel of land and
the total area lying within such boundaries.
“Lot Width” means the width of a parcel of land measured at the required
minimum street yard setback line.
“Machine Shops” means shops where lathes, presses, grinders, shapers and other
wood and metal working machines are used, such as blacksmith, tinsmith, welding
and sheet metal shops; plumbing, heating and electrical repair and overhaul
shops.
“Maintain,” “Maintenance” or “Routine Maintenance” means the act or process of
restoring to original soundness, including redecorating, refinishing, non-
structural repairs, or the replacement of existing fixtures, systems or
equipment with equivalent fixtures, systems or structures.
“Manufactured Home” has the meaning set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(2), and
includes “Mobile Homes” as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 101.91(10). For the purpose
of this Chapter, it does not include mobile recreational vehicles or travel
trailers.
“Marquee” means any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather. Marquee sign
shall mean any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a marquee.
“Mineral Extraction Operation, Quarrying Operation” means a gravel pit, sand
pit, or quarry, including washing, crushing or other processing.
“Minor Structure” means any small, movable accessory structure erected or
constructed, such as birdhouses, tool houses, pet houses, play equipment and
arbors, less than 36 square feet in area.
“Mobile Home”: see Manufactured Home.
"Mobile Recreational Vehicle" means a vehicle that is built on a single
chassis, 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, designed to be self-propelled, carried or permanently towable by a
licensed, light-duty vehicle, is licensed for highway use if registration is
required and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
Excluded from this definition are semi tractors as well as manufactured homes
that are towed or carried onto a parcel of land, but do not remain capable of
being towed or carried, including park model homes.
“Modular Home” means a structure which is partially pre-assembled at a
manufacturing plant and placed on a lot or parcel as a dwelling unit or units.
Also called "pre-fabricated" or pre-cut" homes or "double-wide" units. For
purposes of this chapter, the term manufactured home shall generally be used to
describe this type of structure. It shall be further distinguished from the
term manufactured home. (See definitions of manufactured home and mobile home.)
“Motel” means a series of attached, semi-attached, or detached sleeping units
for the accommodation of transient guests.
“Motor Vehicle” means any motor-driven vehicle required to be registered under
Chapter 341, Wisconsin Statutes, except mopeds.
“Municipality” or “Municipal” means the Village of Rochester unless otherwise
noted.
“NAVD” or “North American Vertical Datum” means the reference used for
elevations to mean sea level datum, 1988 adjustment.
“NGVD" or "National Geodetic Vertical Datum” means the reference used for
elevations to mean sea level datum, 1929 adjustment.
“Navigable Waters” shall have the meaning set forth in Wis. Stat. s. 281.31(2)
(d).
“Nonconforming Lot; Nonconforming Property” means a lot that existed lawfully
before the current zoning or subdivision ordinance was created or amended, but
does not meet the current lot width, depth or area requirements for the zoning
district.
“Nonconforming Structure” means a dwelling, building, structure or fixture that
existed lawfully before the current zoning ordinance was enacted or amended,
but that does not conform with one or more of the development regulations in
the current ordinance.
“Nonconforming Use” means the use of a building, premises, structure or fixture
that was lawful at the time that a zoning ordinance was adopted or amended, but
that does not conform to the use restrictions in the current zoning ordinance.
“Normal Maintenance and Repair, Sign” means cleaning, painting, replacing
broken and vandalized non-structural parts; replacing light bulbs; and other
like minor routine repairs in a manner that does not change or alter the basic
copy area, design, or structure of the sign.
“Obsolete Sign” means any sign that no longer correctly directs or exhorts any
person or advertises a business, service, product, tenant, or activity no
longer conducted, available, or in existence on the premises where such sign is
displayed.
“Off-Road Trail” means a new or existing trail made for the use of an off road
vehicle(s) where a permanent and defined path has been created and/or where the
landscape has been manipulated in such a manner as to create a path or ruts
that may or may not include jumps, pits, hills, and/or berms.
“Off-Road Vehicle” means a motorized vehicle designed for use on a variety of
non-improved surfaces including but not limited to, dune buggies, four-wheel
drive vehicles, snowmobiles, all- terrain vehicles (ATVs), dirt bikes, mini
bikes, motor bikes, mopeds and trail bikes. Agricultural equipment (such as
farm tractors, seeders, combines, cultivators, etc.) used in the operation of a
farm, garden tractors and riding lawnmowers are not off-road vehicles.
“Ordinary High Water Mark (OHWM)” means the point on the bank or shore up to
which the presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized
characteristic.
“Parking Lot” means a structure or premises containing ten or more parking
spaces open to the public. Such spaces may be for rent or a fee.
“Parking Space” means a graded and surfaced area of not less than 180 square
feet in area (or a smaller area approved for the district) either enclosed or
open for the parking of a motor vehicle, having adequate ingress and egress to
a public street or alley.
“Parties of Interest” means all abutting property owners, all property owners
within 100 feet, and all property owners of opposite frontages.
“Pennant” means any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or
not it contains a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series that typically streams in the wind.
“Person” means an individual, group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association, municipality, state agency or other legal entity.
“Pond” means a natural or artificial (manmade) body of standing water smaller
than a lake which generally retains water year round.
“Pole Sign (freestanding sign, self-supporting sign)” means any sign that is
mounted on one or more poles so that the bottom of the sign is at least six
feet in height.
“Portable Sign” means any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including but not
limited to signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs converted
to A-or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; umbrellas used for
advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles, trailers, or
equipment that are parked and readable from the street right-of-way, unless
said vehicles, trailers, or equipment are used in the normal day-to-day
business operations.
“Principal Structure” means a structure used or intended to be used for the
principal use as permitted on such lot by the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
“Private Sewage System” means a sewage treatment and disposal system serving
one structure with a septic tank and soil absorption field located on the same
parcel as the structure. It also means an alternative sewage system approved by
the Department of Safety and Professional Services, including a substitute for
the septic tank or soil absorption field, a holding tank, a system serving more
than one structure or a system located on a different parcel than the
structure.
“Professional Home Offices” means residence offices of clergymen, doctors,
dentists, architects, landscape architects, professional engineers, registered
land surveyors, lawyers, real estate agents, accountants, artists, teachers,
authors, musicians, or other recognized professions used to conduct their
professions where the use meets the requirements set forth in subsection
35-21.J. for home occupations.
“Projecting Sign” means any sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a
building for support and which projects more than 12 inches from the side of
the building.
“Public Utilities” means those utilities using underground or overhead
transmission lines such as electric, telephone and telegraph, and distribution
and collection systems such as water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer.
“Pyramiding” means the act of obtaining or providing access to public bodies of
water across private lots or lands in a manner which increases the number of
families which have access to that water to a degree greater than what would
occur with individual riparian owners having individual lots fronting on the
water. The effect of pyramiding is to funnel backlot development from offshore
lots or residences via a narrow parcel of land to provide access to the water.
Publicly owned access point shall not fall within this definition.
“Quarry” means any place where material consisting in whole or in part of rock
or stone are removed from their natural state by cutting, blasting, digging,
pushing, or any other method, and sold or held for sale or distribution.
“Rear Yard” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth
of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
a line parallel thereto through the nearer point of the principal structure.
This yard shall be opposite the street yard or one of the street yards on a
corner lot.
“Recreational Vehicle” – see Mobile Recreational Vehicle
“Recycling” means the transfer, transporting, processing, marketing, and
conversion of solid waste into usable materials or products and includes the
stockpiling and disposal on non-usable portions of solid wastes, but does not
include the collection of solid wastes.
“Recycling Center” means a facility that is not a junkyard and in which
recoverable resources, such as newspapers, glassware, and metal cans, are
collected, stored, flattened, crushed, or bundled, within a completely enclosed
building.
“Recycling Drop-Off Site” means a collection point for recyclable materials.
Temporary storage of specific materials is permitted on each site, but no
processing of such items is allowed.
“Recycling Plants” means a facility that is not a junk yard and in which
recoverable resources are recycled, reprocessed and treated to return such
products to a condition in which they may again be used for production.
“Relocatable Structure” means a structure or building which can be moved to its
desired location.
“Roadside Stand” means an accessory structure having a ground area of not more
than 300 square feet, not closer than 25 feet to any street right-of-way line,
not permanently fixed to the ground, readily removable in its entirety, not
fully enclosed and to be used solely for the sale of farm products produced on
the premises (or adjoining premises).
“Roof Sign” means any sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or which
is wholly dependent upon a building for support and which projects above any
point of a building with a flat roof, the deck line of a building with a
mansard roof, or the eave line of a building with a gambrel, gable, dome or hip
roof.
“Runway” means any existing or planned rectangular paved surface which is
specifically used for the landing and/or taking off of aircraft.
“Screening” means a method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or
nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or densely
planted vegetation.
“Self-Service Storage Facility” means any structure designed and used for the
purpose of renting or leasing individual storage spaces to tenants who are to
have access to such space for the purpose of storing and removing personal
property; also known as a miniwarehouse.
“Salvage Yard” means an area consisting of buildings, structures or premises
where junk waste, discarded or salvage materials are bought, sold, exchanged,
stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including automobile wrecking
yards, house wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment yards, but
not including the purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment
or used cars in operable condition.
“Shore Protection Structures” means structures which are intended to reduce
shoreline erosion and bluff recession by providing an artificial protective
barrier against direct wave and ice attacks on the beach and bluff toe, by
increasing the extent of the beach available to absorb wave energy before the
water reaches the bluff, by dissipating wave energy and/or by stabilizing the
bluff slope. Shore protection structures include bulkheads, revetments,
seawalls, groins, breakwaters and slope stabilization measures.
“Shore Yard” means a yard extending across the full width or depth of a lot,
the depth of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between a line
intersecting both side lot lines at the same angle and containing the ordinary
highwater mark of a lake, pond, flowage, river, stream or wetland nearest the
principal structure and a line parallel thereto containing the point of the
principal structure nearest the ordinary highwater mark.
“Shorelands” means those lands within the following distances from the ordinary
highwater mark of navigable waters: 1,000 feet from a lake, pond, or flowage,
and 300 feet from a river or stream or to the landward side of the floodplain,
whichever distance is greater.
“Shoreline” means the intersection of the land surfaces abutting lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams, flowages, and wetland with the ordinary highwater mark.
“Side Yard” means a yard extending from the street yard to the rear yard of the
lot, the width of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the
side lot line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest point of the
principal structure.
“Sign” means any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences,
emblems, devices, designs, trade names, or trademarks by which anything is made
known and which are used to advertise or promote an individual firm,
association, corporation, profession, business, commodity or product and which
is visible from any public street or highway.
“Sign (Temporary)” means any sign which pertains to auctions, bazaars,
festivals, or other similar events or to any aspect of a political campaign.
“Smoke Unit” means the number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann
number is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes.
“Stable, Commercial” means a building or land where horses are kept for
remuneration, hire, sale, boarding, riding, or show.
"Start of Construction" means the date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond initial
excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
“Streamer” - see "Pennant."
 22 “Street or Road, Public” means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic under
the control of and maintained by the Village, County or State and open for
travel by the public.
 23 “Street or Road, Private” means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic, over
which a private easement has been granted to provide access to a public street
by the property owners abutting the private street or road, or that exists as
part of the common elements of a condominium. A Private Street or Road is under
the control of and maintained by the owner or abutting property owners or an
association of those owners and not by the public.
“Street Yard” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the existing or
proposed street or highway line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest
point of the principal structure. Corner lots shall have two such yards.
“Structural Alteration” means any change in the supporting members of a
structure, such as foundations, bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
“Structure” means any manmade object with form, shape and utility, either
permanently or temporarily attached to, placed upon or set into the ground,
stream bed or lake bed, including, but not limited to, roofed and walled
buildings, gas or liquid storage tanks, bridges, dams and culverts.
“Structure (Principal)” means a structure used or intended to be used for the
principal use as permitted on such lot by the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
“Structure (Temporary)” means a movable structure.
“Subdivision” - See Chapter 30.
“Substantial Construction” means a considerable amount of work done towards
completing the project that received approval, that may include obtaining
necessary plot plans, surveys, engineering data, easements, deed restrictions,
approvals, permits, and physically starting the project. For typical building
construction projects, the site work must progress beyond grading and
completion of structural foundations, and construction must be occurring above
grade to be considered substantial work.
“Substantial Improvement” means any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the present equalized
assessment value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is
started, or if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. The term does not include either, 1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions, or 2) any alteration of a structure or site documented
as deserving preservation by the Wisconsin State Historical Society or listed
on the National Register of Historical places. Ordinary maintenance does not
include structural repairs, modifications or additions; such ordinary
maintenance repairs include internal and external painting, decorating,
paneling, and the replacement of doors, windows, and other non-structural
component.
“Temporary Sign” means any sign intended for a limited or intermittent period
of display.
“Temporary Structure” means a movable structure.
“Turning Lane” means an existing or proposed connecting roadway or lane between
two arterial streets or between an arterial street and any other street.
Turning lanes include grade separated interchange ramps.
“Unnecessary Hardship” means special conditions affecting a particular
property, which were not self- created, have made strict conformity with
restrictions governing areas, setbacks, frontage, height or density
unnecessarily burdensome or unreasonable in light of the purposes of the
section.
“Utilities” means public and private facilities such as water wells, water and
sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and communication
transmission lines, electrical, power substations, static transformer stations,
telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays, and gas regulations
stations but not including sewage disposal plants, municipal incinerators,
warehouses, ships, and storage yards.
“Variance” means an authorization by the Zoning Board of Appeals for a use
which is not allowed under the zoning district or for the construction or
maintenance of a building or structure in a manner which is inconsistent with
dimensional standards within this Chapter. See also the other land use chapters
of this Municipal Code.
“Violation” means the failure of a person, structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the land use chapters.
“Wall Sign” means any sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building or
structure in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for
or forms the background surface of the sign and which does not project more
than 12 inches from such building or structure.
“Watershed” means the entire region contributing runoff or surface water to a
watercourse or body of water.
“Well” means an excavation opening in the ground made by digging, boring,
drilling, driving or other methods, to obtain groundwater regardless of its
intended use.
“Wetlands” means those areas where water is at, near or above the land surface
long enough to be capable of supporting aquatic or hydrophytic vegetation and
which have soils indicative of wet conditions.
“Wind Energy” and related items: see section
35-140.
“Window Sign” means any sign that is placed inside a window or upon the
windowpanes or glass and is readable from the street or highway.
"Yard" means any improved or unimproved open space on the same lot with a
structure, exclusive of any structures themselves. The street and rear yards
extend the full width of the lot.
“Yard (Rear)” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest point of the principal
structure. This yard shall be opposite the street yard or one of the street
yards on a corner lot.
“Yard (Street)” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the existing or
proposed street or highway line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest
point of the principal structure. Corner lots shall have two such yards.
“Yard (Side)” means a yard extending from the street yard to the rear yard of
the lot, the width of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between
the side lot line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest point of the
principal street.
“Zoning Administrator” means a person appointed by the Village President and
confirmed by the Village Board of Trustees to administer and enforce this
Chapter and the other land use chapters. Reference to the Zoning Administrator
shall be construed to include duly appointed Deputy Administrators.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 10-12-2020; Ord. 2023-7, passed 5-8-2023)
 
Notes
19 19 Amended by Ordinance 2016-8 Adopted 12-12-16
20 20 Added by Ordinance 2016-8 Adopted 12-12-16
21 21 “ “
22 22 Amended by Ordinance 2016-8 Adopted 12-12-16
23 23 “ “
35-500 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Enforcement.
      1.   Double Fee. A double fee shall be charged by the Zoning
Administrator if work is started before a permit is applied for and issued.
Such double fee shall not release the applicant from full compliance with this
Chapter nor from prosecution for violation of this Chapter.
      2.   Stop Work Order. The Zoning Administrator may issue a stop work
order for a project to prevent further non-complying work. No person may
continue construction or use after a stop work order has been issued. The
person who receives such a stop work order may contest the validity of the same
by requesting a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall affirm the stop work order unless the appellant shows that the
Zoning Administrator erred in determining that the construction or use violated
a provision or provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Penalties.
      1.   Any building or structure hereinafter erected, moved, placed, or
structurally altered or any use established in violation of the provisions of
this Chapter or other land use chapter by any person, including building
contractors or their agents, shall be deemed an unlawful structure or use. In
case of any violation, the Village Board, Village Plan Commission, the Zoning
Administrator or any property owner who would be specifically damaged by such
violation may institute an action to enjoin, remove or vacate any use,
erection, moving, alteration, or placement of any building or use in violation
of this Chapter.
      2.   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this Chapter
or any order of the Zoning Administrator issued in accordance with this Chapter
or who resists enforcement shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less
than $10.00 nor more than $200.00 and all applicable costs for each violation
and in default of payment of such forfeiture and costs may be imprisoned in the
County Jail, until payment thereof, but not exceeding 30 days. Each day a
violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense. See also
Chapter 50.
CHAPTER 36 SHORELAND-WETLAND AND SHORELAND ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE 1 GENERAL
36-1. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
   This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization in Wis. Stat. ss.
61.35, 61.351, 61.353, 87.30 and 281.31.
36-2. FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE
   A.   Uncontrolled use of the shoreland-wetlands, the shorelands, and
pollution of the navigable waters of the Village would adversely affect the
public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare and impair the tax
base.
   B.   The Legislature of Wisconsin has delegated responsibility to all
municipalities, as to shoreland-wetlands and shorelands, to:
      1.   Promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare;
      2.   Maintain the storm and flood water storage capacity of wetlands;
      3.   Prevent and control water pollution by preserving wetlands which
filter or store sediments, nutrients, heavy metals or organic compounds that
would otherwise drain into navigable waters;
      4.   Protect fish, their spawning grounds, other aquatic life and
wildlife by preserving wetlands and other aquatic habitat;
      5.   Prohibit certain uses detrimental to the shoreland-wetland area;
      6.   Preserve shore cover and natural beauty by restricting the removal
of natural shoreland cover and controlling shoreland-wetland excavation,
filling and other earth moving activities;
      7.   Further the maintenance of safe and healthful conditions through
regulating building setbacks from waterways and preventing shoreline
encroachment by structures; and
      8.   Allowing Villages to regulate the shorelands through the zoning and
subdivision control powers.
36-3. COMPLIANCE
   A.   The regulations set forth in this Chapter are in addition to, not
instead of, the regulations set forth in the other chapters of this Municipal
Code. The zoning regulations present in other chapters for the land are
referred to as the “underlying zoning” in this Chapter. If a particular zoning
procedure is not included in this chapter, the applicable procedures in the
other zoning chapters will apply.
   B.   Shoreland-Wetland Zoning District. The use of wetlands and the
alteration of wetlands within the shoreland area of the Village, the Shoreland-
Wetland Zoning District, shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
Chapter and other applicable local, state or federal regulations. (See s.
36-42 of this Chapter for the standards applicable to nonconforming uses and
structures.) All permitted and conditional uses and development shall require
the issuance of a Zoning Permit unless otherwise expressly excluded by a
provision of this Chapter.
   C.   Shoreland Zoning District. The use of any land or water, the size,
shape and placement of lots, the use, size, type and location of structures on
lots, the installation and maintenance of water supply and waste disposal
facilities, the filling, grading, lagooning, dredging of any lands, the cutting
of shoreland vegetation, and the subdivision of lots in the Shoreland District
shall be in full compliance with the terms of this Chapter, this Code, and
other applicable local, state or federal regulations. (See s.
36-43 for standards applicable to nonconforming uses and structures.) Uses,
buildings, signs and other structures require a Zoning Permit, and may require
a conditional use permit.
   D.   Property owners are responsible for compliance with the terms of this
Chapter.
36-4 MUNICIPALITIES AND STATE AGENCIES REGULATED
   Unless specifically exempted by law, all cities, villages, towns, and
counties are required to comply with this Chapter and obtain all necessary
permits. State agencies are required to comply if Wis. Stat. s. 13.48(13)
applies. The construction, reconstruction, maintenance and repair of state
highways and bridges by the Wisconsin Department of Transportation are exempt
when Wis. Stat. s. 30.2022 applies.
36-5 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
   A.   This Chapter supersedes all the provisions of any zoning ordinance
enacted under Wis. Stat. ss. 59.692, 61.35, 62.23 or 87.30 which relate to
shorelands or shoreland-wetlands, except that where another Village zoning
ordinance is more restrictive than this Chapter, that ordinance shall continue
in full force and effect to the extent of the greater restrictions, but not
otherwise.
   B.   This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
deed restrictions, covenants or easements. However, where this Chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this Chapter shall prevail.
36-6. INTERPRETATION
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Village and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by the Wisconsin Statutes. Where a provision of this
Chapter is required by a standard in Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 117, and where the
Chapter provision is unclear, the provision shall be interpreted in light of
the applicable Wisconsin Administrative Code chapter NR 117 standards in effect
on the date of the adoption of this Chapter or in effect on the date of the
most recent text amendment to this Chapter. Where a provision of this Chapter
is required by a standard in Wis. Stat. s. 61.353, and where the Chapter
provision is unclear, the provision shall be interpreted in light of the
applicable statutory standards in effect on the date of the application for a
permit hereunder.
36-7. SEVERABILITY
   Should any portion of this Chapter be declared invalid or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Chapter shall not
be affected.
36-8. MAPS ADOPTED
   The following maps are hereby adopted and made part of this Chapter and are
on file in the office of the Village Clerk:
   A.   Wisconsin Wetland maps shown on the Wisconsin Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) Surface Water Data Viewer at http://dnr.wi.gov/topic/
surfacewater/swdv/ (as may be amended from time to time) in effect on the date
of the application for a permit under this Chapter.
   B.   United States Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute quadrangle maps that
cover the Village of Rochester, i.e., Rochester, Burlington, Mukwonago and
Waterford, in effect on the date of the application for a permit hereunder. The
2013 maps are on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   C.   Zoning Map titled “Zoning Map Village of Rochester, Wisconsin” in
effect on the date of application for a permit hereunder.
   D.   All of the Floodplain Maps adopted in
Chapter 37, s.
37-1.E.2.
   E.   
Chapter 36 Appendix A, Lands Subject to Shoreland Zoning District Regulations.
ARTICLE 2 SHORELAND-WETLAND DISTRICT.
36-21. APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS
   The Shoreland-Wetland Zoning regulations in this Chapter are applicable to
the entirety of the Village of Rochester.
36-22. SHORELAND-WETLAND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The Shoreland-Wetland Zoning District includes all wetlands and portions of
wetlands in the Village which are five acres or more and are shown on the
Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) Surface Water Data Viewer that
has been adopted and made a part of this Chapter and which are:
   A.   Within 1,000 feet of the ordinary high-water mark of navigable lakes,
ponds or flowages. Lakes, ponds or flowages in the Village shall be presumed to
be navigable if they are shown on the United States Geological Survey
quadrangle maps or other zoning base maps that have been incorporated by
reference and made a part of this Chapter.
   B.   Within 300 feet of the ordinary high-water mark of navigable rivers or
streams, or to the landward side of the floodplain, whichever distance is
greater. Rivers and streams shall be presumed to be navigable if they are
designated as either continuous or intermittent waterways on the United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps or other maps which have been incorporated by
reference and made a part of this Chapter. Floodplain zoning maps adopted in
Chapter 37 shall be used to determine the extent of floodplain areas.
   C.   Determinations of navigability and ordinary high-water mark location
shall initially be made by the Zoning Administrator. When questions arise, the
Zoning Administrator shall contact the appropriate district office of the DNR
for a final determination of navigability or ordinary high-water mark.
   D.   When an apparent discrepancy exists between the shoreland-wetland
district boundary shown on the official maps and actual field conditions, the
Zoning Administrator shall contact the appropriate district office of the
Department to determine if the shoreland-wetland district boundary, as mapped,
is in error. If Department staff concur in writing with the Zoning
Administrator that a particular area was incorrectly mapped as a wetland, the
Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to immediately grant or deny a
Zoning Permit in accordance with the regulations applicable to the correct
zoning district. In order to correct wetland mapping errors or acknowledge
exempted wetlands designated in subsections E. and F. of this section, the land
owner shall be responsible for initiating a map amendment within a reasonable
period.
   E.   Filled Wetlands. Wetlands which were filled prior to July 26, 1988 in a
manner which affects their wetland characteristics to the extent that the area
can no longer be defined as wetland, are not subject to this Chapter.
   F.   Wetlands Landward of a Bulkhead Line. Wetlands located between the
original ordinary high water mark and a bulkhead line established prior to May
7, 1982 under Wis. Stat. s. 30.11 are not subject to this Chapter.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 11-16-2022)
36-23. USES.
   A.   Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted in the Shoreland-
Wetland District subject to the provisions of Wis. Stat. chs. 30 and 31, and
the provisions of other local, state and federal laws, if applicable. These
activities and uses do not require the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit,
provided that the use is allowed in the underlying zoning district:
      1.   Hiking, fishing, trapping, hunting, swimming, snowmobiling and
boating;
      2.   The harvesting of wild crops, such as marsh hay, ferns, moss, wild
rice, berries, tree fruits and tree seeds, in a manner that is not injurious to
the natural reproduction of such crops and that does not involve filling,
flooding, draining, dredging, ditching, tiling or excavating;
      3.   The practice of silviculture, including the planting, thinning and
harvesting of timber, provided that no filling, flooding, draining, dredging,
ditching, tiling or excavating is done except as required for:
         a.   Temporary water level stabilization measures to alleviate
abnormally wet or dry conditions which would have an adverse impact on the
conduct of silvicultural activities if not corrected; or
         b.   The construction and maintenance of roads necessary to conduct
silvicultural activities, unless allowed as a conditional use under section. B.
      4.   The pasturing of livestock and the construction and maintenance of
fences, provided that no filling, flooding, draining, dredging, ditching,
tiling or excavating is done, except limited filling and excavating necessary
for the construction and maintenance of fences.
      5.   The cultivation of agricultural crops if cultivation can be
accomplished without filling, flooding, or artificial drainage of the wetland
through ditching, tiling, dredging or excavating except for:
         a.   Flooding, dike and dam construction, and ditching for the purpose
of growing and harvesting cranberries;
         b.   The maintenance and repair of existing farm drainage ditches,
where permissible under Wis. Stat. s. 30.20, or of other existing agricultural
drainage systems (such as tiling) to restore the functional drainage of
existing agricultural lands, including the minimum amount of filling necessary
to dispose of dredged spoil, provided that the filling is permissible under
Wis. Stat. ch. 30., and that dredged spoil is placed on existing spoil banks
where possible; or
         c.   The construction and maintenance of roads necessary for
agricultural cultivation, if permitted as a conditional use under section B.
      6.   The construction and maintenance of duck blinds provided that no
filling, flooding, draining, dredging, ditching, tiling or excavating is done.
      7.   The construction and maintenance of piers, docks, walkways,
observation decks and trail bridges, provided that no filling, flooding,
dredging, draining, ditching, tiling or excavating is done, except limited
filling and excavating necessary for the installation of pilings.
      8.   The installation and maintenance of sealed tiles for the purpose of
draining lands outside the shoreland-wetland zoning district provided that such
installation or maintenance is done in a manner designed to minimize the
adverse impact upon the natural functions of the shoreland-wetland listed under
s.
36-58.C..
      9.   The maintenance, repair, replacement, and reconstruction of existing
county, city and village highways and bridges.
      10.   Note: Activities affecting certain waters of the state which are
carried out under the direction and supervision of the department of
transportation in connection with highway and bridge design, location,
construction, reconstruction, maintenance and repair are not subject to the
prohibitions or approval requirements specified under Wis. Stat. s.61.351 if
they are carried out in accordance with interdepartmental liaison procedures
established by the department of natural resources and the department of
transportation for the purpose of minimizing the adverse environmental impact,
if any, of the activity. However, at the earliest practical time prior to the
commencement of these activities, the department of transportation is required
to notify the department of natural resources of the location, nature and
extent of the proposed work that may affect the waters of the state. See Wis.
Admin. Code s. NR 117.05(2)(n).
   B.   Conditional Uses. These uses are allowed upon the issuance of a
Conditional Use permit:
      1.   The construction and maintenance of nonresidential buildings
provided that:
         a.   The building is used solely in conjunction with the raising of
waterfowl, minnows or other wetland or aquatic animals, or used solely for some
other purpose which is compatible with wetland preservation;
         b.   The building cannot as a practical matter be located outside the
wetland;
         c.   The building does not exceed 500 square feet in size; and
         d   No filling, flooding, draining, dredging, ditching, tiling or
excavating is done, except limited filling and excavating necessary to provide
structural support for the building.
      2.   The establishment and development of public and private parks and
recreation areas, outdoor education areas, historic, natural and scientific
areas, game refuges and closed areas, fish and wildlife habitat improvement
projects, game farms and wildlife preserves, and public boat launching ramps,
provided that:
         a.   No filling or excavating is done except for limited filling and
excavating necessary for the development of boat launching ramps, swimming
beaches or the construction of park shelters or similar structures.
         b.   Any private development allowed under this paragraph shall be
used exclusively for the permitted purpose.
         c.   The construction and maintenance of roads necessary for the uses
permitted under this paragraph may be permitted if the requirements of section
B.4. are met.
         d.   Ditching, excavating, dredging, dike and dam construction may be
allowed in game refuges and closed areas, fish and wildlife habitat improvement
projects, game farms, and wildlife areas provided that they are done for the
purpose of improving wildlife habitat or to otherwise enhance wetland values.
      3.   The construction and maintenance of electric and telephone
transmission lines and water, gas and sewer distribution lines, and related
facilities, provided that:
         a.   Such lines cannot as a practical matter be located outside the
wetland; and
         b.   Any filling, excavating, ditching or draining necessary for such
construction or maintenance is done in a matter designed to minimize the
adverse impact upon the natural functions of the wetland listed under section
36-58.C..
         c.   Note: Major electrical generating facilities and high-voltage
transmission lines that have obtained a certificate of public convenience and
necessity under Wis, Stat. s. 196.491 are not subject to the requirements of
this Chapter.
      4.   The construction and maintenance of roads which are necessary for
the continuity of the Village street system, necessary for the provision of
essential utility and emergency services, or necessary to provide access to
uses permitted under sections A. and B., provided that:
         a.   The road cannot, as a practical matter, be located outside of the
wetland;
         b.   The road is designed and constructed to minimize the adverse
impact upon the natural functions of the wetland listed under section
36-58.C.;
         c.   The road is designed and constructed with the minimum cross-
sectional area practical to serve the intended use;
         d.   Road construction activities are carried out in the immediate
area of the roadbed only; and
         e.   Any filling, flooding, draining, dredging, ditching, tiling or
excavating that is done must be necessary for the construction or maintenance
of the road.
      5.   The construction and maintenance of railroad lines provided that:
         a.   Such lines cannot as a practical matter be located outside the
wetland; and
         b.   Any filling, excavating, ditching or draining necessary for such
construction or maintenance is done in a manner designed to minimize the
adverse impact upon the natural functions of the wetland listed under s.
36-58.C.
      6.   The maintenance and repair of existing non-agricultural drainage
ditches, where permissible under Wis. Stat. s. 30.20, or of other existing non-
agricultural drainage systems (such as tiling) to restore pre-existing levels
of drainage, including the minimum amount of filling necessary to dispose of
dredged spoil, provided that the filling is permissible under Wis. Stat. ch.
30, and that dredged spoil is placed on existing spoil banks where possible.
   C.   Prohibited Uses.
      1.   Any use not listed in this Section is prohibited, unless the wetland
or a portion of the wetland has been rezoned by amendment of this Chapter in
accordance with section
36-58.
      2.   The use of a boathouse for human habitation and the construction or
placement of a boathouse or fixed houseboat below the ordinary high-water mark
of any navigable waters are prohibited.
ARTICLE 3 SHORELAND ZONING DISTRICT.
36-31. APPLICABILITY OF SHORELAND DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   The Shoreland Zoning District regulations do not apply to the lands lying
within the corporate boundaries of the Village of Rochester as it existed on
May 7, 1982 which are excluded from the Shoreland Zoning regulations of this
Chapter and are shown in Appendix A to this Chapter. The remainder of the
Village is subject to the Shoreland regulations set forth in this Chapter.
36-32. DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
   District Boundaries. The Shoreland District areas regulated by this
ordinance shall include all the lands (referred to herein as shorelands) in the
Village of Rochester which are not located in the area of land shown in
Appendix A, and legally described as the Corporate Limits of the Village of
Rochester as the Village existed on December 12, 1977 on file with the Village
Clerk and the State of Wisconsin Secretary of State, and are:
   A.   Within 1,000 feet of the ordinary highwater mark of navigable lakes,
ponds or flowages. Lakes, ponds or flowages shall be presumed to be navigable
if they are listed in the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources Surface
Water Data viewer available on the DNR website, or are shown on United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps or other zoning base maps.
   B.   Within 300 feet of the ordinary highwater mark of navigable rivers or
streams, or to the landward side of the floodplain, whichever distance is
greater. Rivers and streams shall be presumed to be navigable if they are
designated as continuous waterways or intermittent waterways on United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps. Flood hazard boundary maps, flood insurance
rate maps, flood boundary-floodway maps, county soil survey maps or other
existing county floodplain zoning maps shall be used to delineate floodplain
areas.
   C.   Determinations of navigability and ordinary highwater mark location
shall initially be made by the Zoning Administrator. When questions arise, the
Zoning Administrator shall contact the appropriate district office of the
Department for a final determination of navigability or ordinary highwater
mark.
   D.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 61.353(7), this Shoreland Zoning District
does not apply to lands adjacent to an artificially constructed drainage ditch,
pond, or retention basin if the drainage ditch, pond or retention basin is not
hydrologically connected to a natural navigable water body.
36-33. EFFECT OF EXISTING LAND DIVISION, SANITARY, ZONING AND OTHER
REGULATIONS.
   The lands within the Shoreland Zoning District are subject to all applicable
provisions of this Municipal Code. If the provisions of this Chapter are more
restrictive than other regulations in the Code, the provisions of this Chapter
shall apply. If land subject to this Chapter is also regulated by
Chapter 37, Floodplain Zoning, the more restrictive uses, area and other
regulations of
Chapter 37 apply.
36-34. SETBACKS FROM THE WATER; LOT COVERAGE.
   A.   Principal Building Setbacks.
      1.   All principal buildings shall be set back at least 50 feet from the
ordinary high-water mark.
      2.   Adjustment of Shore Yards. A setback less than that required by
subsection A.1. may be allowed if all of the following apply:
         a.   The principal building is constructed or placed on a lot or
parcel of land that is immediately adjacent on each side to a lot or parcel of
land containing a principal building; and
         b.   The principal building is constructed or placed within a distance
equal to the average setback of the principal building on the adjacent lots or
35 feet from the ordinary high-water mark, whichever distance is greater.
   B.   Boathouses. Boathouses accessory to permitted and conditional uses may
be located within a shoreyard, but:
      1.   Boathouses shall not be closer than 20 feet to the average annual
high water elevation of a stream, lake, river, pond or wetland; shall not
exceed one boathouse per shoreyard lot; shall not exceed 15 feet in height
above the ordinary high water mark; shall not exceed 250 square feet in
horizontal area covered; and shall not be closer than 15 feet to any side lot
line. In no case, however, shall boathouses be allowed to project beyond the
shoreline. Boathouses shall be constructed in such a manner as to orient the
main opening of the boat house toward the body of water and shall be used
strictly for the storage of boats and water-related recreational accessories.
The use of a boat house for human habitation is prohibited. No plumbing,
heating or cooking faculties may be provided in or for a boathouse.
      2.   Boathouses shall not be located in the vegetative buffer zone
required in s.
36-35.
   C.   Other Accessory Buildings. One accessory building may be placed in each
shoreyard, but:
      1.   Shall not be placed in the vegetative buffer zone required in s.
36-35;
      2.   Shall not be placed closer than 35 feet to the average annual high
water mark;
      3.   Shall be limited in size to 200 square feet or less in area (except
uncovered pools), must be at least ten feet from the principal structure, must
be at least three feet from any side lot line, may not be used for human
habitation or animal shelter, and may not be greater than fifteen feet in
height;
   D.   Accessory structures meeting the size requirements of the underlying
zoning district and the provisions for accessory structures in
Chapter 35 may be placed in side and street yards provided that the setbacks
for those yards are met.
   E.   Lot Coverage. Lots should be configured to minimize the amount of
impervious surfaces. Maximum lot coverage equals 30 percent (includes buildings
and other impervious surfaces).
   F.   Pyramiding. No pyramiding is allowed on any lands fronting a public
body of water except as may be specifically permitted accessory to a marina or
resort or which may be allowed under the terms of a conditional use permit or
which may be approved as part of a subdivisions plat review.
36-35. VEGETATIVE BUFFER ZONE.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 61.353(3), the landowner must maintain a
vegetative buffer zone, as follows:
   A.   A person who owns shoreland property that contains vegetation must
maintain that vegetation in a vegetative buffer zone along the entire shoreline
of the property and extending 35 feet inland from the ordinary high-water mark
of the navigable water, except as provided in subsection B.
   B.   If the vegetation in a vegetative buffer zone contains invasive species
or dead or diseased vegetation, the owner of the shoreland property may remove
the vegetation, except that if the owner removes all of the vegetation in the
vegetative buffer zone, the owner shall establish a vegetative buffer zone with
new vegetation.
   C.   A person who is required to maintain or establish a vegetative buffer
zone under subsection. A. may remove all of the vegetation in a part of that
zone in order to establish a viewing or access corridor that is no greater than
30 feet wide for every 100 feet of shoreline frontage.
36-36. ACTIVITIES AND USES REQUIRING A SHORELAND CONTRACT OR SHORELAND
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   A.   Zoning Administrator Review of Application. The uses and/or activities
set forth in this section may be conditional uses requiring review, public
hearing, and approval by the Plan Commission, or may be permitted by the Zoning
Administrator with a Shoreland Contract, subject to the provisions of this
section.
      1.   The Zoning Administrator may approve shoreland conditional use
permit applications under this section without a public hearing provided that
the applicant agrees to sign a contract setting forth the methods for
eliminating erosion, sedimentation, and pollution.
      2.   The Zoning Administrator may request technical assistance from the
Village Engineer, Department of Public Works, or other Village officers,
departments, Commissions or Boards in reviewing a shoreland conditional use
permit application prior to setting forth the contractual provisions. Such
contractual provisions shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in
this section.
      3.   The applicant may request a public hearing if he or she does not
agree with the provisions of the contract or feels the public hearing is in the
applicant's best interest.
      4.   The Zoning Administrator may require a formal conditional use public
hearing where it is deemed that the subject land may be susceptible to
flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock
formation, unfavorable topography, low bearing strength, erosion or any other
feature likely to be harmful to the sensitive environment of the shoreland
areas, or to the public interest of the Village.
   B.   Earth Moving Activities. Earth movements and soil disturbance
activities such as grading, topsoil removal, filling, road cutting,
construction, altering, or enlargement of waterways, removal of stream or
lakebed material, excavation, channel clearing, ditching, dredging, lagooning,
and soil and water conservation structures may be conditional uses requiring
review, public hearing and approval by the Plan Commission or may be subject to
review and approval by the Zoning Administrator and entry into a Shoreland
Contract in accordance with subsection A. of this section in addition to the
permit required from the state agency having jurisdiction under Wis. Stat. ch.
30.
      1.   Only filling, grading, lagooning, dredging, ditching or excavating
that is done in a manner designed to minimize erosion, sedimentation and
impairment of fish and wildlife habitat may be permitted in the shoreland area.
      2.   A state or federal permit may be required, in addition to a permit
under this chapter, if state or federal laws are applicable to the filling,
grading, lagooning, dredging, ditching or excavating that is proposed.
      3.   Earth movements such as grading, topsoil removal, stream course
changing, road cutting, waterway construction or enlargement, removal of stream
or lake bed materials, excavation, channel clearing, ditching, dredging,
lagooning, and soil and water conservation structures, may be permitted
provided that such uses are so regulated as to prevent erosion and
sedimentation and to least disturb the natural fauna, flora, watercourse, water
regimen, and topography.
      4.   The Plan Commission or the Zoning Administrator shall request a
review of such earth movement by the state district fish and game managers and
a review of each such cutting and clearing from the state district forester and
await their recommendations before taking final action, but not to exceed 60
days.
      5.   A copy of the Plan Commission’s or the Zoning Administrator's
decision on such application shall be forwarded to the department of natural
resources within ten days of such decision.
      6.   General Standards. Filling, grading, lagooning, dredging, ditching
or excavating which does not require a conditional use permit under subsection
7 may be permitted in the shoreland area provided that:
         a.   It is done in a manner designed to minimize erosion,
sedimentation and impairment of fish and wildlife habitat.
         b.   All applicable federal, state and local authority is obtained in
addition to a conditional use permit or contract under this Chapter.
         c.   Any fill placed in the shoreland area is protected against
erosion by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or a bulkhead.
      7.   Conditional use Permit Required. Except as provided in subsection 8,
a conditional use permit is required:
         a.   For any filling or grading of any area which is within 300 feet
landward of the ordinary highwater mark of navigable water and which has
surface drainage toward the water and on which there is either:
            (1)   Any filling or grading on slopes of more than 20%.
            (2)   Filling or grading of more than 1,000 sq. ft. on slopes of
12%- 20%.
            (3)   Filling or grading of more than 2,000 sq. ft. on slopes less
than 12%.
         b.   For any construction or dredging commenced on any artificial
waterway, canal, ditch, lagoon, pond, lake or similar waterway which is within
300 feet landward of the ordinary highwater mark of a navigable body of water
or where the purpose is the ultimate connection with a navigable body of water.
      8.   Soil Conservation Practices and Agricultural Drainage Maintenance.
         a.   Soil conservation practices such as tiled terraces, runoff
diversions and grassed waterways used for erosion control shall not require a
Conditional use Permit under subsection 7. when designed and constructed to
Soil Conservation Service technical standards.
         b.   The maintenance of existing agricultural drainage systems shall
be permitted in conformity with the following construction standards:
            1.   The maintenance dredging of farm drainage ditches is limited
to reestablishing the original ditch cross section unless a conditional use
permit under subsection 7. is obtained.
            2.   Ditch banks shall be constructed at a slope of 2 horizontal to
1 vertical (50% grade) or flatter.
            3.   Ditch banks shall be maintained in a sod cover and free of
woody vegetation.
            4.   A ten foot wide buffer strip of untilled, ungrazed sod cover
shall be maintained adjacent to the ditch bank.
      9.   Conditional Use Permit Conditions. In granting a conditional use
permit under subsection 7., the Plan Commission shall attach the following
conditions, where appropriate, in addition to those provisions specified in
other sections.
         a.   The smallest amount of bare ground shall be exposed for as short
a time as feasible.
         b.   Temporary ground cover (such as mulch or jute netting) shall be
used and permanent vegetative cover shall be established.
         c.   Diversion berms or bales, silting basins, terraces, filter fabric
fencing, and other methods shall be used to prevent erosion.
      d.   Lagoons shall be constructed to avoid fish trap conditions.
      e.   Fill shall be stabilized according to accepted engineering
standards.
         f.   Filling shall comply with
Chapter 37, Floodplain Zoning, and shall not restrict a floodway or destroy the
flood storage capacity of a floodplain.
         g.   Channels or artificial watercourses shall be constructed with
side slopes of two units horizontal distance to one unit vertical or flatter
which shall be promptly vegetated, unless bulkheads or riprap are provided.
ARTICLE 4 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
36-41. NONCONFORMING USES
   Nonconforming Uses in Shoreland-Wetland and Shoreland Districts. The lawful
use of a building, structure or property which existed at the time this Chapter
or an applicable amendment to this Chapter took effect and which is not in
conformity with the provisions of the Chapter, including the routine
maintenance of such a building or structure, may be continued, subject to the
following conditions, exceptions and regulations:
   A.   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve consecutive months,
any future use of the building, structure or property shall conform to this
Chapter.
   B.   Any legal nonconforming use of property that does not involve the use
of a structure which existed at the time of the adoption or subsequent
amendment of this Chapter may be continued although such use does not conform
with the provisions of the Chapter, however, such nonconforming use may not be
extended.
   C.   The maintenance and repair of nonconforming boathouses which extend
beyond the ordinary high-water mark of any navigable waters shall be required
to comply with Wis. Stat. s. 30.121.
   D.   Uses which are nuisances shall not be permitted to continue as
nonconforming uses.
   E.   Except as otherwise set forth by law, as set forth in Wis. Stat. s.
62.23(7)(h), the total structural repairs or alterations in a building,
premises, structure, or fixture that does not conform to the use provisions of
this Chapter shall not during its life exceed 50 percent of the assessed value
of the building, premises, structure, or fixture unless permanently changed to
a conforming use. If the nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 12
months, any future use of the building, premises, structure, or fixture shall
conform to this Chapter.
36-42. NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES IN THE SHORELAND-WETLAND DISTRICT.
   Repair and expansion of existing structures are permitted. Notwithstanding
Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(h), the repair, reconstruction, renovation, remodeling
or expansion of a nonconforming structure in existence on the effective date of
this Chapter or any environmental control facility in existence on the
effective date of this Chapter is permitted. The provisions of
Chapter 37, Floodplain Zoning are applicable and additional restrictions may
apply.
36-43 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES IN THE SHORELAND DISTRICT.
   A.   Maintenance and Repair.
      1.   The maintenance and repair of nonconforming boathouses that extend
waterward beyond the ordinary highwater mark of any navigable waters shall
comply with the requirements of Wis. Stat. s. 30.121
      2.   Maintenance and repair of nonconforming principal structure. An
existing principal structure that was lawfully placed when constructed but that
does not comply with the required building setback under s.
36-34 may be maintained and repaired within its existing building envelope.
Maintenance and repair includes such activities as interior remodeling,
plumbing, insulation, and replacement of windows, doors, siding, or roof.
   B.   Vertical expansion of nonconforming principal structure. An existing
principal structure that was lawfully placed when constructed but that does not
comply with the required building setback under s.
36-34 may be expanded vertically, provided that all of the following
requirements are met:
      1.   The use of the structure is a permitted or conditional use in the
underlying district.
      2.   The existing principal structure is at least 35 feet from the
ordinary high-water mark.
      3.   Vertical expansion is limited to the height of 35 feet, provided
that a vertical expansion will not be permitted if it will block sunlight to a
neighboring property. See s.
35-3.
   C.   Expansion of nonconforming principal structure beyond setback. An
existing principal structure that was lawfully placed when constructed but that
does not comply with the required building setback under s.
36-34 may be expanded horizontally or landward provided that the expanded area
meets the building setback requirements in s.
36-34 and that all other provisions of the shoreland requirements ordinance are
met
   D.   Replacement or relocation of nonconforming principal structure. An
existing principal structure that was lawfully placed when constructed but that
does not comply with the required building setback under s.
36-34 may be replaced or relocated on the property provided all of the
following requirements are met:
      1.   The use of the structure is a permitted or conditional use in the
underlying district.
      2.   The existing principal structure is at least 35 feet from the
ordinary high-water mark.
      3.   No portion of the replaced or relocated structure is located any
closer to the ordinary high-water mark than the closest point of the existing
principal structure.
      4.   The Village determines that no other location is available on the
property to build a principal structure of a comparable size to the structure
proposed for replacement or relocation that will result in compliance with the
shoreland setback requirement in s.
36-34.
36-44. CERTAIN STRUCTURES MAY BE REPLACED, REPAIRED AND MAINTAINED.
   A.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(hc), nonconforming structures that
are destroyed by violent wind, vandalism, fire, flood, ice, snow, mold, or
infestation on or after March 2, 2006 may be restored to the size (or a larger
size if necessary to comply with state or federal regulations), location and
use that it had immediately before the damage or destruction occurred.
   B.   Repair and maintenance of certain nonconforming structures.
      1.   In this paragraph:
         "Development regulations" means the part of this chapter that applies
to elements including setback, height, lot coverage, and side yard.
         "Nonconforming structure" means a dwelling or other building that
existed lawfully before the current zoning ordinance was enacted or amended,
but that does not conform with one or more of the development regulations in
this Chapter.
      2.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(hb), this Chapter does not
prohibit, or limit based on cost, the repair, maintenance, renovation, or
remodeling of a nonconforming structure.
ARTICLE 5 ADMINISTRATION
36-50. ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
   The appointed Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this
Chapter. Where a statute or administrative code referenced in this Chapter sets
forth duties to be performed by a county, the Village Zoning Administrator
shall be responsible for undertaking those duties. The Zoning Administrator
shall have the following duties and powers:
   A.   Advise applicants as to the provisions of this Chapter and assist them
in preparing permit applications and appeal forms.
   B.   Issue permits and certificates of compliance and inspect properties for
compliance with this Chapter.
   C.   Keep records of all permits issued, inspections made, work approved and
other official actions. The Zoning Administrator, together with the Village
Clerk, shall ensure that there is a record of all proceedings before the Plan
Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals, copies of all exhibits, and records of
all official actions.
   D.   Have access to any structure or premises between the hours of 8 a.m.
and 6 p.m. for the purpose of performing the duties set forth in this Chapter.
   E.   Together with the Village Clerk, send written notice to the appropriate
office of the DNR at least ten days prior to hearings on conditional use
permits, variances, appeals for map or text interpretations of the provisions
of this Chapter, and map or text amendments to the shoreland- wetland zoning
regulations.
   F.   Submit copies of decisions on variances, conditional use permits,
appeals for a map or text interpretation, and map or text amendments within 10
days after they are granted or denied, to the appropriate district office of
the Department.
   G.   Together with the Village Engineer and landowner, ensure that zoning
district boundary amendments are appropriately mapped.
   H.   Investigate and report violations of this Chapter to the Plan
Commission, law enforcement agency, and Village attorney.
36-51. ZONING PERMITS.
   A.   When Required. Unless another section of this Chapter specifically
exempts certain types of development from this requirement, a Zoning Permit
shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator before any new development, as
defined in s.
36-60 of this Chapter, or any change in the use of an existing building or
structure is initiated. Also see
Chapter 35.
   B.   Application. An application for a Zoning Permit shall be made to the
Zoning Administrator upon forms furnished by the Village and shall include, for
the purpose of proper enforcement of these regulations, the following
information:
      1.   General Information.
         a.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant, property owner
and contractor, where applicable.
         b.   Legal description of the property and a general description of
the proposed use or development.
         c.   Whether or not a private water supply or sewage system is to be
installed.
      2.   Site Development Plan. The site development plan shall be submitted
as a part of the permit application and shall contain the following information
drawn to scale:
         a.   Dimensions and area of the lot;
         b.   Location of any structures with distances measured from the lot
lines and center line of all abutting streets or highways;
         c.   Description of any existing or proposed on-site sewage systems or
private water supply systems;
         d.   Location of the ordinary high-water mark of any abutting
navigable waterways;
         e.   Boundaries of all wetlands;
         f.   Existing and proposed topographic and drainage features and
vegetative cover;
         g.   Location of floodplain and floodway limits on the property as
determined from floodplain zoning maps;
         h.   Location of existing or future access roads; and
         i.   Specifications and dimensions for areas of proposed wetland
alteration.
   B.   Expiration. All permits issued under the authority of this Chapter
shall expire at the same time as the building permit issued by the Building
Inspector under Chapter 11. Certificates of Compliance, and Zoning Permits for
uses that do not involve building permits, shall not expire but shall be
automatically void if a change is made without application for an amended or
new Certificate or Zoning Permit.
   C.   Regular Inspections. The Zoning Administrator shall inspect the
permitted work as the work progresses to ensure conformity of the finished
building, structure or other development with the terms of this Chapter and the
permit issued.
36-52. CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE
   A.   Except where no Zoning Permit or Conditional Use Permit is required
under this Chapter or any other Chapter of this Municipal Code, no land shall
be occupied or used, and no building which is hereafter constructed, altered,
added to, modified, rebuilt or replaced shall be occupied, until a certificate
of compliance is issued by the Zoning Administrator subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   The certificate of compliance shall show that the building or
premises or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, conform to the
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Application for such certificate shall be concurrent with the
application for a zoning or conditional use permit.
      3.   The certificate of compliance shall be issued within 10 days after
notification of the completion of the work specified in the zoning or
conditional use permit, providing the building or premises and proposed use
thereof conform with all the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator may issue a temporary certificate of
compliance for a building, premises or part thereof pursuant to rules and
regulations established by the Village Board.
   C.   Upon written request from the owner, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a certificate of compliance for any building or premises existing at the
time of Chapter adoption, certifying after inspection, the extent and type of
use made of the building or premises and whether or not such use conforms to
the provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   The Zoning Administrator may require the submission of an as-built
survey prior to the issuance of the certificate of compliance.
36-53. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
   A.   Application. Any use listed as a conditional use in this Chapter shall
be permitted only after an application has been submitted to the Zoning
Administrator and a Conditional Use Permit has been granted by the Plan
Commission after following the procedures in this Chapter and in
Chapter 35 of this Municipal Code.
   B.   Conditions. Upon consideration of the permit application and the
standards applicable to the conditional uses designated in this Chapter, the
Plan Commission shall attach such conditions to a Conditional Use Permit, in
addition to those required elsewhere in this Chapter, as are necessary to
further the purposes of this Chapter as listed in s.
36-2. Such conditions may include specifications for, without limitation
because of specific enumeration: type of shore cover; erosion controls;
increased setbacks; specific sewage disposal and water supply facilities;
landscaping and planting screens; period of operation; operational control;
sureties; deed restrictions; location of piers, docks, parking areas and signs;
and type of construction. To secure information upon which to base its
determination, the Plan Commission may require the applicant to furnish, in
addition to the information required for a Zoning Permit, other pertinent
information which is necessary to determine if the proposed use is consistent
with the purpose of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 11-16-2022)
36-54. FEES
   The Village Board may, by resolution, adopt fees for permits required under
this Chapter. See s.
35-6. All of the fees adopted in
Chapter 35 shall be applicable hereunder.
36-55. RECORDING
   Where a Zoning Permit or Conditional Use Permit is approved, an appropriate
record shall be made by the Zoning Administrator of the land use and structures
permitted.
36-56. PLAN COMMISSION
   A.   The Plan Commission appointed by the Village pursuant to Wis. Stat. s.
62.23(1) shall consider, hold hearings, and make decisions on applications for
Conditional Use Permits.
   B.   Notice and Public Hearings.
      1.   Before making a decision on an application for a Conditional Use
Permit, the Plan Commission shall, within a reasonable period of time, hold a
public hearing. The Plan Commission shall give public notice of the hearing by
publishing a class 1 notice under Wis. Stat. ch. 985 specifying the date, time
and place of the hearing and the matters to come before the Plan Commission. At
the public hearing, any party may present testimony in person, by agent or by
attorney.
      2.   A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the parties in interest and
the appropriate district office of the Department at least ten days prior to
all public hearings on issues involving Shoreland-Wetland Zoning or Shoreland
Zoning.
      3.   The additional provisions for notice to neighbors set forth in
Chapter 35 shall apply.
   C.   Decisions.
      1.   The final disposition of an application for a Conditional Use Permit
before the Plan Commission shall be in the form of a written decision, made
within a reasonable time after the public hearing and signed by the Chairman of
the Plan Commission.
      2.   Such decision shall state the specific facts which are the basis of
the Plan Commission’s determination and shall either grant or deny the
Conditional Use Permit.
      3.   A copy of such decision shall be mailed to the parties in interest
and the appropriate district office of the Department within ten days after the
decision is issued.
      4.   If the Plan Commission grants the Conditional Use Permit, it shall
direct the Zoning Administrator to issue the Permit, inclusive of the
conditions thereto.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 11-16-2022)
36-57. BOARD OF APPEALS
   The Zoning Board of Appeals appointed by the Village pursuant to Wis. Stat.
s. 62.23(7)(e):
   A.   Shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement or administration of this Chapter and may perform
any other act authorized under Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(e) pursuant to the
provisions of s.
35-210.
   B.   May authorize upon appeal a variance from the dimensional standards of
this Chapter where an applicant convincingly demonstrates:
      1.   That literal enforcement of the terms of the Chapter will result in
unnecessary hardship for the applicant.
      2.   That the hardship is due to special conditions unique to the
property; and is not self- created or based solely on economic gain or loss;
      3.   That such variance is not contrary to the public interest as
expressed by the purpose of this Chapter; and
      4.   That such variance will not grant or increase any use of property
which is prohibited in the zoning district.
   C.   Appeals to the Board. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by
any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
community affected by any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator or other administrative official. Such appeals shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board by filing
with the official whose decision is in question, and with the Board of Appeals,
a notice of appeal specifying the reasons for the appeal. The Zoning
Administrator or other official whose decision is in question shall transmit to
the Board all the papers constituting the record on the matter appealed.
   D.   Public Hearings.
      1.   Before making a decision on an appeal, the Board of Appeals shall,
within a reasonable period of time, hold a public hearing. The Board shall give
public notice of the hearing by publishing a class 2 notice under Wis. Stat.
ch. 985 specifying the date, time and place of the hearing and the matters to
come before the Board. At the public hearing, any party may present testimony
in person, by agent or by attorney.
      2.   A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the parties in interest and
the appropriate district office of the Department at least 10 days prior to all
public hearings on issues involving shoreland-wetland zoning.
   E.   Decisions.
      1.   The final disposition of an appeal before the Board of Appeals shall
be in the form of a written decision, made within a reasonable time after the
public hearing and signed by the Board chairperson. Such decision shall state
the specific facts which are the basis of the Board's determination and shall
either affirm, reverse, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed, in whole or in part, or dismiss the appeal for lack of
jurisdiction or prosecution.
      2.   A copy of such decision shall be mailed to the parties in interest
and the appropriate district office of the Department within 10 days after the
decision is issued.
36-58. AMENDING SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING REGULATIONS
   The Village Board may alter, supplement or change the district boundaries
and the regulations contained in this Chapter in accordance with the
requirements of Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(d)2., Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 117.05(4),
and the following
   A.   A copy of each proposed text or map amendment shall be submitted to the
appropriate district office of the Department within five days of the
submission of the proposed amendment to the Village Plan Commission;
   B.   All proposed text and map amendments to the shoreland-wetland zoning
regulations shall be referred to the Village Plan Commission, and a public
hearing shall be held before the Village Board after class 2 notice as required
by Wis. Stat. s. 62.23(7)(d)2. The appropriate district office of the
Department shall be provided with written notice of the public hearing at least
10 days prior to such hearing.
   C.   In order to ensure that this Chapter will remain consistent with the
shoreland protection objectives of Wis. Stat. s. 281.31, the Village Board may
not rezone a wetland in a shoreland- wetland zoning district, or any portion
thereof, where the proposed rezoning may result in a significant adverse impact
upon any of the following wetland functions:
      1.   Storm and floodwater storage capacity;
      2.   Maintenance of dry season stream flow or the discharge of
groundwater to a wetland, the recharge of groundwater from a wetland to another
area or the flow of groundwater through a wetland;
      3.   Filtering or storage of sediments, nutrients, heavy metals or
organic compounds that would otherwise drain into navigable waters;
      4.   Shoreline protection against erosion;
      5.   Fish spawning, breeding, nursery or feeding grounds;
      6.   Wildlife habitat; or
      7.   Areas of special recreational, scenic or scientific interest,
including scarce wetland types and habitat of endangered species.
   D.   Where the district office of the Department determines that a proposed
rezoning may have a significant adverse impact upon any of the criteria listed
in subsection C, the Department shall so notify the Village of its
determination either prior to or during the public hearing held on the proposed
amendment.
   E.   The appropriate district office of the Department shall be provided
with:
      1.   A copy of the recommendation and report, if any, of the Plan
Commission on a proposed text or map amendment within ten days after the
submission of those recommendations to the Village Board.
      2.   Written notice of the action on the proposed text or map amendment
within ten days after the action is taken.
   F.   If the Department notifies the Plan Commission in writing that a
proposed amendment may have a significant adverse impact upon any of the
criteria listed in subsection C, the proposed amendment, if approved by the
Village Board, shall not become effective until more than 30 days have elapsed
since written notice of the Village approval was mailed to the Department, as
required by this Chapter. If within the 30 day period the Department notifies
the Village that the Department intends to adopt a superseding shoreland-
wetland zoning ordinance for the Village as provided by Wis. Stat. s. 61.351
(6), the proposed amendment shall not become effective until the ordinance
adoption procedure under Wis. Stat. s. 61.351(6) is completed or otherwise
terminated.
ARTICLE 6 DEFINITIONS
36-60. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words or phrases shall have
meanings that either vary somewhat from their customary dictionary meaning or
are intended to be interpreted to have a specific meaning. Words used in the
present tense in this Chapter include the future. The word "person" includes a
firm, association, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an
individual. The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "should" is advisory, and
the word "may" is permissive. Any words not defined in this section shall be
presumed to have their customary dictionary definitions, or as defined by
statute or administrative code. All distances, unless otherwise specified,
shall be measured horizontally.
SPECIFIC WORDS AND PHRASES:
“Accessory Structure or Use" means a detached subordinate structure or a use
which is clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, the
principal structure or use to which it is related and which is located on the
same lot as that of the principal structure or use.
"Boathouse" as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 30.01 means a structure used for the
storage of watercraft and associated materials and has one or more walls or
sides.
"Class 1 Public Notice" means publication of a public hearing notice under Wis.
Stat. ch. 985 in a newspaper of circulation in the affected area. Publication
is required at least seven days prior to the hearing.
"Class 2 Public Notice" means publication of a public hearing notice under Wis.
Stat. ch. 985 in a newspaper of circulation in the affected area. Publication
is required on two consecutive weeks, the last at least seven days prior to the
hearing.
"Conditional use" means a use which is permitted by this Chapter provided that
certain conditions specified in the Chapter are met and that a permit is
granted by the Plan Commission.
"Department" means the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
"Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures; the construction of additions or substantial alterations
to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of buildings or
structures; ditching, lagooning, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation
or drilling operations; and the deposition or extraction of earthen materials.
"Drainage system" means one or more artificial ditches, tile drains or similar
devices which collect surface runoff or groundwater and convey it to a point of
discharge.
"Environmental control facility" means any facility, temporary or permanent,
which is reasonably expected to abate, reduce or aid in the prevention,
measurement, control or monitoring of noise, air or water pollutants, solid
waste and thermal pollution, radiation or other pollutants, including
facilities installed principally to supplement or to replace existing property
or equipment not meeting or allegedly not meeting acceptable pollution control
standards or which are to be supplemented or replaced by other pollution
control facilities.
"Fixed houseboat" as defined in Wis. Stat. s. 30.01 means a structure not
actually used for navigation which extends beyond the ordinary high-water mark
of a navigable waterway and is retained in place either by cables to the
shoreline or by anchors or spudpoles attached to the bed of the waterway.
"Navigable waters" means Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, all natural inland lakes
within Wisconsin, and all streams, ponds, sloughs, flowages and other waters
within the territorial limits of this state, including the Wisconsin portion of
boundary waters, which are navigable under the laws of this state. Under Wis.
Stat. s. 281.31(2)(d), not withstanding any other provision of law or
administrative rule promulgated thereunder, shoreland ordinances required under
Wis. Stat. ss. 61.351 do not apply to lands adjacent to farm drainage ditches
if;
   A.   Such lands are not adjacent to a natural navigable stream or river;
   B.   Those parts of such drainage ditches adjacent to such lands were not
navigable streams before ditching; and
   C.   Such lands are maintained in nonstructural agricultural use.
The Wisconsin Supreme Court has declared navigable bodies of water that have a
bed differentiated from adjacent uplands and levels or flow sufficient to
support navigation by a recreational craft of the shallowest draft on an
annually recurring basis [Muench v. Public Service Commission, 261 Wis. 492
(1952) and DeGaynor and Co., Inc., v. Department of Natural Resources, 70 Wis.
2d 936 (1975)]. For example, a stream which is navigable by skiff or canoe
during normal spring high water is navigable, in fact, under the laws of this
state though it may be dry during other seasons."
"Ordinary high-water mark" means the point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a distinctive
mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized characteristic.
"Plan Commission" means the Village plan commission created under Wis. Stat. s.
62.23(1).
“Principal Building” means the main building or structure on a single lot or
parcel of land and includes any attached garage or attached porch.
“Pyramiding” means the act of obtaining or providing access to public bodies of
water across private lots or lands in a manner that increases the number of
families that have access to that water to a degree greater than what would
occur with individual riparian owners having individual lots fronting on the
water. The effect of pyramiding is to funnel backlot development from offshore
lots or residences via a narrow parcel of land to provide access to the water.
Publicly owned access points or publicly owned easements do not fall withing
this definition.
"Shorelands" means lands within the following distances from the ordinary high-
water mark of navigable waters: 1,000 feet from a lake, pond or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream or to the landward side of the floodplain,
whichever distance is greater.
"Shoreland-Wetland District" means the zoning district, created in this
Chapter, comprised of shorelands that are designated as wetlands on the
wetlands inventory maps which have been adopted and made a part of this
Chapter.
"Unnecessary hardship" means that circumstance where special conditions, which
were not self- created, affect a particular property and make strict conformity
with restrictions governing area, setbacks, frontage height or density
unnecessarily burdensome or unreasonable in light of the purposes of this
Chapter.
"Variance" means an authorization granted by the Board of Appeals to construct
or alter a building or structure in a manner that deviates from the dimensional
standards of this Chapter.
"Wetlands" means those areas where water is at, near or above the land surface
long enough to support aquatic or hydrophytic vegetation and which have soils
indicative of wet conditions.
"Wetland alteration" means any filling, flooding, draining, dredging, ditching,
tiling, excavating, temporary water level stabilization measures or dike and
dam construction in a wetland area.
ARTICLE 50 ENFORCEMENT
36-500. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Violations. Any development, building or structure or accessory
building or structure constructed, altered, added to, modified, rebuilt or
replaced or any use or accessory use established after the effective date of
this Chapter in violation of the provisions of this Chapter, by any person,
including building contractors or their agents, shall be deemed a violation.
   B.   Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of
this Chapter pursuant to the provisions of s.
35-10 of this Municipal Code. The Village Attorney shall prosecute such
violations.
   C.   Penalties.
      1.   Citations. Any person failing to comply with this Chapter shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Each day of continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Double Fees, Injunctions and Suspension or Revocation. In addition
to the penalties set forth in subsection 1., the penalties for commencing work
without a permit, for violation of this Chapter or the violation of a Zoning
Permit or Conditional Use Permit set forth in s.
35-100.I. of this Municipal Code shall apply, including double fees,
injunctions and suspension or revocation of zoning and conditional use permits.
   D.   Every violation of this Chapter is a public nuisance and the creation
thereof may be enjoined and the maintenance thereof may be abated by action at
suit of the Village, the state, or any citizen thereof pursuant to Wis. Stat.
s. 87.30(2).
   E.   Adjacent or neighboring property owners who would be specially damaged
by a violation of this Chapter may enforce this Chapter by the use of
injunctions to prevent or abate violations, as provided in Wis. Stat. s. 62.23
(7)(f)2.
Chapter 36 - Appendix A
Lands subject to Shoreland Zoning District Regulations
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f6408afce581a5f26abcbb1a994fbbe5f5f9deb2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1183.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 37 FLOODPLAIN ZONING
37-1. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDING OF FACT, STATEMENT OF PURPOSE, TITLE AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   A.   Statutory Authorization. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the
authorization in Wis. Stat. ss. 61.35 and 62.23 for villages and cities and the
requirements in Wis. Stat. s. 87.30.
   B.   Finding of Fact. Uncontrolled development and use of the floodplains
and rivers of this municipality would impair the public health, safety,
convenience, general welfare, and tax base.
   C.   Statement of Purpose. This chapter is intended to regulate floodplain
development to:
      1.   Protect life, health and property;
      2.   Minimize expenditures of public funds for flood control projects;
      3.   Minimize rescue and relief efforts undertaken at the expense of the
taxpayers;
      4.   Minimize business interruptions and other economic disruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities in the floodplain;
      6.   Minimize the occurrence of future flood blight areas in the
floodplain;
      7.   Discourage the victimization of unwary land- and homebuyers;
      8.   Prevent increases in flood heights that could increase flood damage
and result in conflicts between property owners; and
      9.   Discourage development in a floodplain if there is any practicable
alternative to locate the activity, use or structure outside of the floodplain.
   D.   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Floodplain Zoning Ordinance
for the Village of Rochester, Wisconsin.
   E.   General Provisions.
      1.   Areas to be Regulated. This chapter regulates all areas of special
flood hazard identified as Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, or AE, on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map. Additional areas identified on maps approved by the
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and the local community may also be
regulated under the provisions of this chapter, where applicable.
      2.   Official Maps and Revisions. Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) are
designated as zones A, A1-30, AE, AH, or AO on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
FIRMs) based on flood hazard analyses summarized in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) listed in subd. a. below. Additional flood hazard areas subject to
regulation under this chapter are identified on maps based on studies approved
by the DNR and listed in subd. b. below. These maps and revisions are on file
in the office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Rochester.
         a.   Official Maps: Based on the Flood Insurance Study (FIS):
            (1)   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), panel numbers 55101C0038E,
55101C0039E, 55101C0132E, 55101C0133E, 55101C0134E, 55101C0151E, 55101C0152E,
55101C0153E, and 55101C0154E, dated January 11, 2024;
            (2)   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), panel numbers 55101C0018D,
55101C0019D, and 55101C0131D, dated May 2, 2012;
            (3)   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Village of Rochester (Racine
County), 55101CV001C, 55101CV002C, and 55101CV003C, dated January 11, 2024.
            Approved by: the DNR and FEMA
         b.   Official Maps: Based on other studies. Any maps referenced in
this section must be approved by the DNR and be more restrictive than those
based on the FIS at the site of the proposed development.
            (1)   Waterford Dam Failure Analysis (DFA) dated June 26, 2012, by
GRAEF, approved by the Department of Natural Resources on December 5, 2012
including:
               (a)   A map titled " Figure 1 — Hydraulic Shadow Map — Waterford
Dam," showing hydraulic shadow boundary and model cross-section locations.
Elevations shown on map at cross-sections are for reference only; use floodway
data table for regulatory elevations.
               (b)   Floodway data table output from RAS, bearing the header
HEC-RAS Plan: Unsteady 62612." The value in the column titled "W.S.Elev” s the
governing regulatory elevation.
               (c)   Flood profile panels 01P, 02P, and 03P copied from Village
of Waterford Flood Insurance Study, with DFA cross-section locations noted.
Sections are shown for reference; no regulatory water surface profile is shown.
Use floodway data table for regulatory elevations.
      3.   Establishment of Floodplain Zoning Districts. The flood hazard areas
regulated by this chapter are divided into districts as follows:
         a.   The Floodway District (FW), is the channel of a river or stream
and those portions of the floodplain adjoining the channel required to carry
the regional floodwaters, within AE Zones as shown on the FIRM, or within A
Zones shown on the FIRM when determined according to s. 37-5.E..
         b.   The Floodfringe District ( FF) is that portion of a riverine
special flood hazard area outside the floodway within AE Zones on the FIRM, or,
when floodway limits have been determined according to s. 37-5.E., within A
Zones shown on the FIRM.
         c.   The General Floodplain District (GFP) is those riverine areas
that may be covered by floodwater during the regional flood in which a floodway
boundary has not been delineated on the FIRM and also includes shallow flooding
areas identified as AH and AO zones on the FIRM.
      4.   Locating Floodplain Boundaries. Discrepancies between the exterior
boundaries of zones A1-30, AE, AH, or A on the official floodplain zoning map
and actual field conditions may be resolved using the criteria in subd a. or b.
below. If a significant difference exists, the map shall be amended according
to s. 37-8, Amendments. The zoning administrator can rely on a boundary derived
from a profile elevation to grant or deny a land use permit, whether or not a
map amendment is required. The zoning administrator shall be responsible for
documenting actual pre-development field conditions and the basis upon which
the district boundary was determined. Disputes between the zoning administrator
and an applicant over the district boundary line shall be settled according to
s. 37-7C.3. and the criteria in a. and b. below. Where the flood profiles are
based on established base flood elevations from a FIRM, FEMA must approve any
map amendment or revision pursuant to s. 37-8, Amendments.
         a.   If flood profiles exist, the map scale and the profile elevations
shall determine the district boundary. The regional or base flood elevations
shall govern if there are any discrepancies.
         b.   Where flood profiles do not exist for projects, including any
boundary of zone A or AO, the location of the boundary shall be determined by
the map scale.
      5.   Removal of Lands from Floodplain.
         a.   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be
grounds for removing land from the floodplain unless it is filled at least two
feet above the regional or base flood elevation, the fill is contiguous to land
outside the floodplain, and the map is amended pursuant to s. 37-8, Amendments.
         b.   The delineation of any of the Floodplain Districts may be revised
by the community where natural or manmade changes have occurred and/or where
more detailed studies have been conducted. However, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources
and Federal Emergency Management Agency. A completed Letter of Map Revision is
a record of this approval. The floodplain administrator shall not sign a
community acknowledgment form unless all criteria set forth in the following
paragraphs are met:
            (1)   The land and/or land around the structure must be filled at
least two feet above the regional or base flood elevation;
            (2)   The fill must be contiguous to land outside the floodplain;
Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before applying for a LOMR
or LOMR-F;
         c.   Removal of lands from the floodplain may also occur by operation
of Wis. Stat. s. 87.30(1)(e), if a property owner has obtained a Letter of Map
Amendment from the Federal Emergency Management Agency under 44 C.F.R. 70.
      6.   Compliance.
         a.   No structure or use within areas regulated by this chapter shall
hereafter be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, repaired, extended,
converted, enlarged, or altered without full compliance with the terms of these
regulations and all other applicable regulations that apply to uses within the
jurisdiction of these regulations.
         b.   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a
violation of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with s.
37-50.
         c.   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the floodplain administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications, or
amendments thereto if approved by the floodplain administrator. Use,
arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of these regulations and punishable in accordance with s. 37-50.
      7.   Municipalities and State Agencies Regulated. Unless specifically
exempted by law, all cities, villages, towns, and counties are required to
comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary permits. State agencies are
required to comply if Wis. Stat. s. 13.48(13) applies. The construction,
reconstruction, maintenance and repair of state highways and bridges by the
Wisconsin Department of Transportation is exempt when Wis. Stat. s. 30.2022
applies. Although exempt from a local zoning permit and permit fees, DOT must
provide sufficient project documentation and analysis to ensure that the
community is in compliance with Federal, State, and local floodplain standards.
If a local transportation project is located within a Zone A floodplain and is
not a WisDOT project under Wis Stat. s. 30.2022, then the road project design
documents (including appropriate detailed plans and profiles) may be sufficient
to meet the requirements for issuance of a local floodplain permit if the
following apply: the applicant provides documentation to the Floodplain
Administrator that the proposed project is a culvert replacement or bridge
replacement under 20' span at the same location, the project is exempt from a
DNR permit under Wis. Stat. s. 30.123(6)(d), the capacity is not decreased, the
top road grade is not raised, and no floodway data is available from a federal,
state, or other source. If floodway data is available in the impacted area from
a federal, state, or other source that existing data must be utilized by the
applicant in the analysis of the project site.
      8.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
         a.   This chapter supersedes all the provisions of any municipal
zoning ordinance enacted under Wis. Stat. s. 61.35 for villages; or Wis. Stat.
s. 87.30, which relate to floodplains. A more restrictive ordinance shall
continue in full force and effect to the extent of the greater restrictions,
but not otherwise.
         b.   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing deed restrictions, covenants, or easements. If this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
      9.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter are the minimum requirements liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and are not a limitation on or repeal of any other
powers granted by the Wisconsin Statutes. If a provision of this chapter,
required by Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 116, is unclear, the provision shall be
interpreted in light of the standards in effect on the date of the adoption of
this chapter or in effect on the date of the most recent text amendment to this
chapter.
      10.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The flood protection standards
in this chapter are based on engineering experience and research. Larger floods
may occur, or the flood height may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
This chapter does not imply or guarantee that non-floodplain areas or permitted
floodplain uses will be free from flooding and flood damages. This chapter does
not create liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the
municipality or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that may
result from reliance on this chapter.
      11.   Severability. Should any portion of this chapter be declared
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected.
      12.   Annexed Areas for Cities and Villages. The Racine County floodplain
zoning provisions in effect on the date of annexation shall remain in effect
and shall be enforced by the municipality for all annexed areas until the
municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which meets the requirements of
Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 116 and 44 C.F.R. 59-72, National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP). These annexed lands are described on the municipality's
official zoning map. County floodplain zoning provisions are incorporated by
reference for the purpose of administering this section and are on file in the
office of the municipal zoning administrator. All plats or maps of annexation
shall show the regional flood elevation and the floodway location.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-2. GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS
   A.   The community shall review all permit applications to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding and assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies whose
approval is required by federal or state law.
      1.   If a proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall:
         a.   Be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         b.   Be constructed with flood-resistant materials;
         c.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages; and
         d.   Mechanical and utility equipment must be elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation.
      2.   If a subdivision or other proposed new development is in a flood-
prone area, the community shall assure that:
         a.   Such proposed subdivision or other proposed new development is
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage within the flood-prone area;
         b.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      All subdivision proposals (including manufactured home parks) shall
include regional flood elevation and floodway data for any development that
meets the subdivision definition of this chapter and all other requirements in
s.
37-7.A.2 .
   B.   Hydraulic and Hydrologic Analyses.
      1.   No floodplain development shall:
         a.   Obstruct flow, defined as development which blocks the conveyance
of floodwaters by itself or with other development, causing any increase in the
regional flood height; or
         b.   Cause any increase in the regional flood height due to floodplain
storage area lost.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall deny permits if it is determined the
proposed development will obstruct flow or cause any increase in the regional
flood height, based on the officially adopted FIRM or other adopted map, unless
the provisions of s.
37-8, Amendments are met.
   C.   Watercourse Alterations. No land use permit to alter or relocate a
watercourse in a mapped floodplain shall be issued until the local official has
notified in writing all adjacent municipalities, the Department and FEMA
regional offices, and required the applicant to secure all necessary state and
federal permits. The standards of s.
37-2.B. must be met and the flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
   As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months after the date of
the watercourse alteration or relocation and pursuant to s.
37-8, Amendments, the community shall apply for a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)
from FEMA. Any such alterations must be reviewed and approved by FEMA and the
DNR through the LOMC process.
   D.   Wis. Stat. chs. 30, 31, Development. Development, which requires a
permit from the Department under Wis Stat. chs. 30 and 31, such as docks,
piers, wharves, bridges, culverts, dams, and navigational aids, may be allowed
if the necessary permits are obtained and amendments to the floodplain zoning
ordinance are made according to s.
37-8, Amendments.
   E.   Public or Private Campgrounds. Public or private campgrounds shall have
a low flood damage potential and shall meet the following provisions:
      1.   The campground is approved by the Department of Agriculture, Trade
and Consumer Protection;
      2.   A land use permit for the campground is issued by the zoning
administrator;
      3.   The character of the river system and the campground elevation are
such that a 72-hour warning of an impending flood can be given to all
campground occupants;
      4.   There is an adequate flood warning procedure for the campground that
offers the minimum notice required under this section to all persons in the
campground. This procedure shall include a written agreement between the
campground owner, the floodplain zoning agency or zoning administrator, the
municipal emergency government coordinator and the chief law enforcement
official which specifies the flood elevation at which evacuation shall occur,
personnel responsible for monitoring flood elevations, types of warning systems
to be used and the procedures for notifying at-risk parties, and the methods
and personnel responsible for conducting the evacuation;
      5.   This agreement shall be for no more than one calendar year, at which
time the agreement shall be reviewed and updated—by the officials identified in
sub. E.4. above—to remain in compliance with all applicable regulations,
including those of the state Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer
Protection and all other applicable regulations;
      6.   All mobile recreational vehicles placed on site must meet one of the
following:
         a.   Be fully licensed, if required, and ready for highway use; or
         b.   Not occupy any site in the campground for more than 180
consecutive days, at which time the recreational vehicle must be removed from
the floodplain for a minimum of 24 hours; or
         c.   Meet the requirements in either s.
37-3,
37-4, or
37-5 for the floodplain district in which the structure is located.
      A mobile recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions;
      7.   All camping units that remain on site for more than 30 days shall be
issued a limited authorization by the campground operator, a written copy of
which is kept on file at the campground. Such authorization shall allow
placement of a camping unit consistent with s.
37-2.E.6. and shall ensure compliance with all the provisions of this section;
      8.   The municipality shall monitor the limited authorizations issued by
the campground operator to assure compliance with the terms of this section;
      9.   The campground shall have signs clearly posted at all entrances
warning of the flood hazard and the procedures for evacuation when a flood
warning is issued; and
      10.   All service facilities, including but not limited to refuse
collection, electrical service, gas lines, propane tanks, sewage systems and
wells shall be properly anchored and placed at or floodproofed to the flood
protection elevation; and
      11.   Standards for Structures in a Campground.
         a.   All structures must comply with section
37-2.E. or meet the applicable requirements in ss.
37-3,
37-4, and
37-5 for the floodplain district in which the structure is located;
         b.   Deck/landing: a portable landing may be allowed for a camping
unit for each entry provided that the landing is not permanently attached to
the ground or camping unit, is no more than 200 square feet in size, shall be
portable, contain no walls or roof, and can be removed from the campground by a
truck and/or trailer. Sections of such portable landings may be placed together
to form a single deck not greater than 200 square feet at one entry point.
Provisions for the removal of these temporary landings during flood events must
be addressed within the written agreement with the municipality compliant with
section
37-2.E.4. Any such deck/landing structure may be constructed at elevations
lower than the flood protection elevation but must not obstruct flow of flood
waters or cause any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
regional flood.
         c.   Decks/patios that are constructed completely at grade may be
allowed but must also comply with applicable shoreland zoning standards.
         d.   Camping equipment and appurtenant equipment in the campground may
be allowed provided that the equipment is not permanently attached to the
ground or camping unit, is not used as a habitable structure, and must not
obstruct flow of flood waters or cause any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the regional flood. Provisions for the removal of this equipment
during flooding events shall be addressed within the written agreement with the
municipality compliant with section
37-2.E.4.
         e.   Once a flood warning in the written agreement has been issued for
the campground, the campground owner or the designated operator shall ensure
that all persons, camping units, decks, camping equipment and appurtenant
equipment in the campground shall be evacuated within the timelines specified
within the written agreement with the municipality compliant with section
37-2.E.4.
      12.   A land use permit shall be obtained as provided under
37-7.A.2. before any development; repair, modification, or addition to an
existing structure; or change in the use of a building or structure, including
sewer and water facilities, may be initiated.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-3. FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW)
   A.   Applicability. This section applies to all floodway areas on the
floodplain zoning maps and those identified pursuant to s.
37-5.E.
   B.   Permitted Uses. The following open space uses are allowed in the
Floodway District and the floodway areas of the General Floodplain District,
if:
      –they are not prohibited by any other ordinance;
      –they meet the standards in ss.
37-3.C. and
37-3.D.; and
      –all permits or certificates have been issued according to s.
37-7.A.
      1.   Agricultural uses, such as: farming, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, viticulture, and wild crop harvesting.
      2.   Nonstructural industrial and commercial uses, such as loading areas,
parking areas and airport landing strips.
      3.   Nonstructural recreational uses, such as golf courses, tennis
courts, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting, trap, and
skeet activities, hunting and fishing areas and hiking and horseback riding
trails, subject to the fill limitations of s.
37-3.C.4.
      4.   Uses or structures accessory to open space uses or classified as
historic structures that comply with ss. 37-3.C. and 37-3.D.
      5.   Extraction of sand, gravel or other materials that comply with s.
37-3.C.4.
      6.   Functionally water-dependent uses, such as docks, piers or wharves,
dams, flowage areas, culverts, navigational aids and river crossings of
transmission lines, and pipelines that comply with Wis. Stat. chs. 30 and 31.
      7.   Public utilities, streets and bridges that comply with s. 37-3.C.3.
      8.   Portable latrines that are removed prior to flooding and systems
associated with recreational areas and Department-approved campgrounds that
meet the applicable provisions of local ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS
383.
      9.   Public or private wells used to obtain potable water for
recreational areas that meet the requirements of local ordinances and Wis.
Admin. Code chs. NR 811 and NR 812.
      10.   Wastewater treatment ponds or facilities permitted under Wis.
Admin. Code s. NR 110.15(3)(b).
      11.   Sanitary sewer or water supply lines to service existing or
proposed development located outside the floodway that complies with the
regulations for the floodplain area occupied.
   C.   Standards for Development in the Floodway.
      1.   General.
         a.   Any development in the floodway shall comply with s.
37-2 and have a low flood damage potential.
         b.   Applicants shall provide an analysis calculating the effects of
this proposal on the regional flood height to determine the effects of the
proposal according to ss.
37-2.B. and
37-7.A.2.c. The analysis must be completed by a registered professional
engineer in the state of Wisconsin.
         c.   Any encroachment in the regulatory floodway is prohibited unless
the data submitted for subd. b. above demonstrates that the encroachment will
cause no increase in flood elevations in flood events up to the base flood at
any location or removes the encroached area from the regulatory floodway as
provided in s.
37-1.E.5.
      2.   Structures. Structures accessory to permanent open space uses,
including utility and sanitary facilities, or functionally dependent on a
waterfront location, may be allowed by permit if the structures comply with the
following criteria:
         a.   Not designed for human habitation, does not have a high flood
damage potential and is constructed to minimize flood damage;
         b.   Shall either have the lowest floor elevated to or above the flood
protection elevation or shall meet all the following standards:
            (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to or above the regional flood
elevation and be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and completely dry to
the flood protection elevation without human intervention during flooding;
            (2)   Have structural components capable of meeting all provisions
of Section
37-3.C.2.g.; and
            (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency
Floodproofing Certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in
accordance with Section
37-3.C.2.g.
         c.   Must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement;
         d.   Mechanical and utility equipment must be elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation; and
         e.   Must not obstruct flow of flood waters or cause any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the regional flood.
         f.   For a structure designed to allow the automatic entry of
floodwaters below the Regional Flood Elevation, the applicant shall submit a
plan that meets s.
37-3.C.2.a. through
37-3.C.2.e. and meets or exceeds the following standards:
            (1)   The lowest floor must be elevated to or above the regional
flood elevation;
            (2)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
            (3)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the lowest adjacent grade; openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters, but otherwise must remain open.
            (4)   The use must be limited to parking, building access or
limited storage.
         g.   Certification. Whenever floodproofing measures are required, a
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the following
floodproofing measures will be utilized, where appropriate, and are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the regional flood:
            (1)   Reinforcement of floors and walls to resist rupture,
collapse, or lateral movement caused by water pressures or debris buildup;
            (2)   Construction of wells, water supply systems and waste
treatment systems so as to prevent the entrance of flood waters in such systems
and must be in accordance with provisions in Sections
37-3.D.4. and
37-3.D.5.;
            (3)   Subsurface drainage systems to relieve external pressures on
foundation walls and basement floors;
            (4)   Cutoff valves on sewer lines or the elimination of gravity
flow basement drains; and
            (5)   Placement of utilities to or above the flood protection
elevation.
      3.   Public Utilities, Streets and Bridges. Public utilities, streets and
bridges may be allowed by permit, if:
         a.   Adequate floodproofing measures are provided to the flood
protection elevation; and
         b.   Construction meets the development standards of s.
37-2.B.
      4.   Fills or Deposition of Materials. Fills or deposition of materials
may be allowed by permit, if:
         a.   The requirements of s.
37-2.B. are met;
         b.   No material is deposited in navigable waters unless a permit is
issued by the Department pursuant to Wis. Stat. ch. 30, and a permit pursuant
to s. 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Amendments of 1972, 33
U.S.C. 1344 has been issued, if applicable, and all other requirements have
been met;
         c.   The fill or other materials will be protected against erosion by
riprap, vegetative cover, sheet piling or bulkheading; and
         d.   The fill is not classified as a solid or hazardous material.
   D.   Prohibited Uses. All uses not listed as permitted uses in s.
37-3.B. are prohibited, including the following uses:
      1.   Habitable structures, structures with high flood damage potential,
or those not associated with permanent open-space uses;
      2.   Storing materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, injurious
to property, water quality, or human, animal, plant, fish or other aquatic
life;
      3.   Uses not in harmony with or detrimental to uses permitted in the
adjoining districts;
      4.   Any private or public sewage systems, except portable latrines that
are removed prior to flooding and systems associated with recreational areas
and Department-approved campgrounds that meet the applicable provisions of
local ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 383;
      5.   Any public or private wells which are used to obtain potable water,
except those for recreational areas that meet the requirements of local
ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code chs. NR 811 and NR 812;
      6.   Any solid or hazardous waste disposal sites;
      7.   Any wastewater treatment ponds or facilities, except those permitted
under Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 110.15(3)(b); and
      8.   Any sanitary sewer or water supply lines, except those to service
existing or proposed development located outside the floodway which complies
with the regulations for the floodplain area occupied.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-4. FLOODFRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   A.   Applicability. This section applies to all floodfringe areas shown on
the floodplain zoning maps and those identified pursuant to s.
37-5.E.
   B.   Permitted Uses. Any structure, land use, or development is allowed in
the Floodfringe District if the standards in Wis. Stat. s. 4.3 are met, the use
is not prohibited by this, or any other ordinance or regulation and all permits
or certificates specified in s.
37-7.A. have been issued.
   C.   Standards for Development in the Floodfringe. Section
37-2 shall apply in addition to the following requirements according to the use
requested. Any existing structure in the floodfringe must meet the requirements
of s.
37-6, Nonconforming Uses;
      1.   Residential uses. Any structure, including a manufactured home,
which is to be newly constructed or moved into the floodfringe, shall meet or
exceed the following standards. Any existing structure in the floodfringe must
meet the requirements of s.
37-6, Nonconforming Uses;
         a.   All new construction, including placement of manufactured homes,
and substantial improvement of residential structures, shall have the lowest
floor elevated to or above the flood protection elevation on fill. The fill
around the structure shall be one foot or more above the regional flood
elevation extending at least 15 feet beyond the limits of the structure. No
area may be removed from the floodfringe district unless it can be shown to
meet s.
37-1.E.5.
         b.   Notwithstanding s.
37-4.C.1.a., a basement or crawlspace floor may be placed at the regional flood
elevation if the basement or crawlspace is designed to make all portions of the
structure below the flood protection elevation watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. No floor of any kind is allowed below the
regional flood elevation;
         c.   Contiguous dryland access shall be provided from a structure to
land outside of the floodplain, except as provided in subd. d.
         d.   In developments where existing street or sewer line elevations
make compliance with subd. c. impractical, the municipality may permit new
development and substantial improvements where roads are below the regional
flood elevation, if:
            (1)   The municipality has written assurance from police, fire and
emergency services that rescue and relief will be provided to the structure(s)
by wheeled vehicles during a regional flood event; or
            (2)   The municipality has a DNR-approved emergency evacuation plan
that follows acceptable hazard mitigation planning guidelines.
      2.   Accessory Structures or Uses. In addition to s.
37-2, new construction and substantial improvements of accessory structures
shall be constructed on fill with the lowest floor at or above the regional
flood elevation.
      3.   Commercial Uses. In addition to s.
37-2, any commercial structure which is erected, altered, or moved into the
floodfringe shall meet the requirements of s.
37-4.C.1. Subject to the requirements of s.
37-4.C.5. storage yards, surface parking lots and other such uses may be placed
at lower elevations if an adequate warning system exists to protect life and
property.
      4.   Manufacturing and Industrial Uses. In addition to s.
37-2, any manufacturing or industrial structure which is erected, altered, or
moved into the floodfringe shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation or meet the floodproofing standards in s.
37-7.E. Subject to the requirements of s.
37-4.C.5., storage yards, surface parking lots and other such uses may be
placed at lower elevations if an adequate warning system exists to protect life
and property.
      5.   Storage of Materials. Materials that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to property, water quality or human, animal, plant,
fish, or aquatic life shall be stored at or above the flood protection
elevation or floodproofed in compliance with s.
37-7.E. Adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that such materials will not
enter the water body during flooding.
      6.   Public Utilities, Streets and Bridges. All utilities, streets and
bridges shall be designed to be compatible with comprehensive floodplain
development plans.
         a.   When failure of public utilities, streets and bridges would
endanger public health or safety, or where such facilities are deemed
essential, construction or repair of such facilities shall only be permitted if
they are designed to comply with s.
37-7.E.3.
         b.   Minor roads or non-essential utilities may be constructed at
lower elevations if they are designed to withstand flood forces to the regional
flood elevation.
      7.   Sewage Systems. All sewage disposal systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood water into the system, pursuant to
s. 37-7.E.3., to the flood protection elevation and meet the provisions of all
local ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 383.
      8.   Wells. All wells shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the system, pursuant to s.
37-7.E.3. to the flood protection elevation and shall meet the provisions of
Wis. Admin. Code chs. NR 811 and NR 812.
      9.   Solid Waste Disposal Sites. Disposal of solid or hazardous waste is
prohibited in floodfringe areas.
      10.   Deposition of Materials. Any deposited material must meet all the
provisions of this chapter.
      11.   Manufactured Homes.
         a.   Owners or operators of all manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall provide adequate surface drainage to minimize flood damage,
and prepare, secure approval, and file an evacuation plan, indicating vehicular
access and escape routes, with local emergency management authorities.
         b.   In existing manufactured home parks, all new homes, replacement
homes on existing pads, and substantially improved homes shall:
            (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to the flood protection
elevation; and
            (2)   Be anchored so they do not float, collapse, or move laterally
during a flood.
         c.   Outside of existing manufactured home parks, including new
manufactured home parks and all single units outside of existing parks, all
new, replacement and substantially improved manufactured homes shall meet the
residential development standards for the floodfringe in s.
37-4.C.1.
      12.   Mobile Recreational Vehicles. All mobile recreational vehicles must
be on site for less than 180 consecutive days and be either:
         a.   Fully licensed and ready for highway use (a mobile recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick-disconnect utilities and security devices
and has no permanently attached additions); or
         b.   Shall meet the elevation and anchoring requirements in s.
37-4.C.11.b. and c.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-5. GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GFP)
   A.   Applicability. The provisions for the General Floodplain District shall
apply to development in all floodplains mapped as A, AO, AH, and in AE zones
within which a floodway is not delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
identified in s.
37-1.E.2.a.
   B.   Floodway Boundaries . For proposed development in zone A, or in zone AE
within which a floodway is not delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
identified in s.
37-1.E.2.a the boundaries of the regulatory floodway shall be determined
pursuant to s.
37-5.E. If the development is proposed to encroach upon the regulatory
floodway, the development is subject to the standards of s.
37-3. If the development is located entirely within the floodfringe, the
development is subject to the standards of s.
37-4.
   C.   Permitted Uses. Pursuant to s.
37-5.E., it shall be determined whether the proposed use is located within the
floodway or floodfringe. Those uses permitted in the Floodway (s.
37-3.B.) and Floodfringe (s.
37-4.B.) Districts are allowed within the General Floodplain District,
according to the standards of s.
37-5.D. provided that all permits or certificates required under s.
37-7.A. have been issued.
   D.   Standards for Development in the General Floodplain District. Section
37-3 applies to floodway areas, determined to pursuant to s.
37-5.E.; Section
37-4 applies to floodfringe areas, determined to pursuant to
37-5(E).
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of structures in zone
AO shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated:
         a.   To or above the depth, in feet, as shown on the FIRM above the
highest adjacent natural grade; or
         b.   If the depth is not specified on the FIRM, two above the highest
adjacent natural grade or higher.
      2.   New construction and substantial improvement of structures in zone
AH shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation.
      3.   In AO/AH zones, provide adequate drainage paths to guide floodwaters
around structures.
      4.   All development in zones AO and zone AH shall meet the requirements
of s.
37-4 applicable to floodfringe areas.
   E.   Determining Floodway and Floodfringe Limits. Upon receiving an
application for development within zone A, or within zone AE where a floodway
has not been delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps, the zoning
administrator shall:
      1.   Require the applicant to submit two copies of an aerial photograph
or a plan which shows the proposed development with respect to the general
floodplain district limits, stream channel, and existing floodplain
developments, along with a legal description of the property, fill limits and
elevations, building floor elevations and floodproofing measures and the flood
zone as shown on the FIRM.
      2.   Require the applicant to furnish any of the following information
deemed necessary by the Department to evaluate the effects of the proposal upon
flood height and flood flows, regional flood elevation and to determine
floodway boundaries.
         a.   A Hydrologic and Hydraulic Study as specified in s.
37-7.A.2.c.
         b.   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the ground;
pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations; size, location, and layout of
all proposed and existing structures on the site; location and elevations of
streets, water supply, and sanitary facilities; soil types and other pertinent
information.
      3.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, channel improvement, storage, water supply
and sanitary facilities.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-6. NONCONFORMING USES.
   A.   General.
      1.   Applicability.
         a.   The standards in this section shall apply to all uses and
buildings that do not conform to the provisions contained within a floodplain
zoning ordinance or with Wis. Stat. s. 87.30; Wis. Admin. Code ss. NR 116.12-
14; and 44 C.F.R. 59-72. These standards shall apply to all modifications or
additions to any nonconforming use or structure and to the use of any structure
or premises which was lawful before the passage of this chapter or any
amendment thereto. A party asserting existence of a lawfully established
nonconforming use or structure has the burden of proving that the use or
structure was compliant with the floodplain zoning ordinance in effect at the
time the use or structure was created.
         b.   As permit applications are received for additions, modifications,
or substantial improvements to nonconforming buildings in the floodplain,
municipalities shall develop a list of those nonconforming buildings, their
present equalized assessed value, and a list of the costs of those activities
associated with changes to those buildings.
      2.   The existing lawful use of a structure or its accessory use which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may continue subject to
the following conditions:
         a.   No modifications or additions to a nonconforming use or structure
shall be permitted unless they comply with this chapter. The words
"modification" and "addition" include, but are not limited to, any alteration,
addition, modification, structural repair, rebuilding or replacement of any
such existing use, structure or accessory structure or use. Maintenance is not
considered a modification; this includes painting, decorating, paneling and
other nonstructural components and the maintenance, repair or replacement of
existing private sewage or water supply systems or connections to public
utilities. Any costs associated with the repair of a damaged structure are not
considered maintenance.
         The construction of a deck that does not exceed 200 square feet and
that is adjacent to the exterior wall of a principal structure is not an
extension, modification, or addition. The roof of the structure may extend over
a portion of the deck in order to provide safe ingress and egress to the
principal structure.
         b.   If a nonconforming use or the use of a nonconforming structure is
discontinued for 12 consecutive months, it is no longer permitted and any
future use of the property, and any structure or building thereon, shall
conform to the applicable requirements of this chapter;
         c.   The municipality shall keep a record which lists all
nonconforming uses and nonconforming structures, their present equalized
assessed value, the cost of all modifications or additions which have been
permitted, and the percentage of the structure’s total current value those
modifications represent;
         d.   No modification or addition to any nonconforming structure or any
structure with a nonconforming use, which over the life of the structure would
equal or exceed 50% of its present equalized assessed value, shall be allowed
unless the entire structure is permanently changed to a conforming structure
with a conforming use in compliance with the applicable requirements of this
chapter. Contiguous dry land access must be provided for residential and
commercial uses in compliance with s.
37-4.C.1. The costs of elevating the lowest floor of a nonconforming building
or a building with a nonconforming use to the flood protection elevation are
excluded from the 50% provisions of this paragraph;
         e.   No maintenance on a per event basis to any nonconforming
structure or any structure with a nonconforming use, the cost of which would
equal or exceed 50% of its present equalized assessed value, shall be allowed
unless the entire structure is permanently changed to a conforming structure
with a conforming use in compliance with the applicable requirements of this
chapter. Contiguous dry land access must be provided for residential and
commercial uses in compliance with s.
37-4.C.1. Maintenance to any nonconforming structure which does not exceed 50%
of its present equalized assessed value on a per event basis does not count
against the cumulative calculations over the life of the structure for
substantial improvement calculations.
         f.   If on a per event basis the total value of the work being done
under subds. d. and e. equals or exceeds 50% of the present equalized assessed
value, the work shall not be permitted unless the entire structure is
permanently changed to a conforming structure with a conforming use in
compliance with the applicable requirements of this chapter. Contiguous dry
land access must be provided for residential and commercial uses in compliance
with s.
37-4.C.1.
         g.   Except as provided in subd. h., if any nonconforming structure or
any structure with a nonconforming use is destroyed or is substantially
damaged, it cannot be replaced, reconstructed, or rebuilt unless the use and
the structure meet the current ordinance requirements. A structure is
considered substantially damaged if the total cost to restore the structure to
its pre-damaged condition equals or exceeds 50% of the structure's present
equalized assessed value.
         h.   For nonconforming buildings that are substantially damaged or
destroyed by a nonflood disaster, the repair or reconstruction of any such
nonconforming building shall be permitted in order to restore it to the size
and use in effect prior to the damage event, provided that the following
minimum requirements are met and all required permits have been granted prior
to the start of construction:
            (1)   Residential Structures.
               (a)   Shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above the base flood elevation using fill, pilings, columns, posts, or
perimeter walls. Perimeter walls must meet the requirements of s.
37-7.E2.
               (b)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy, and shall be constructed with methods
and materials resistant to flood damage.
               (c)   Shall be constructed with electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
               (d)   In A zones, obtain, review, and utilize any flood data
available from a federal, state or other source.
               (e)   In AO zones with no elevations specified, shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, meet the standards in s.
37-5.D.
               (f)   In AO zones, shall have adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from the structure.
            (2)   Nonresidential Structures.
               (a)   Shall meet the requirements of s.
37-6.A.2.h(1)(a) - (f).
               (b)   Shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the regional flood elevation; or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, shall meet the standards in s.
37-7.E.1. or 2.
               (c)   In AO zones with no elevations specified, shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, meet the standards in s.
37-5.D.
      3.   A nonconforming historic structure may be altered if the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure, the alteration will comply with s.
37-3.C.1, flood resistant materials are used, and construction practices and
floodproofing methods that comply with s.
37-7.E. are used. Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures shall be
exempt from the development standards of s.
37-6.A.2.h(1) if it is determined that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure
and is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
      4.   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary,
modifications, additions, maintenance, and repairs to a nonconforming building
shall not be prohibited based on cost and the building's nonconforming use
shall be permitted to continue if:
         a.   Any living quarters in the nonconforming building are elevated to
be at or above the flood protection elevation;
         b.   The lowest floor of the nonconforming building, including the
basement, is elevated to or above the regional flood elevation;
         c.   The nonconforming building is permanently changed to conform to
the applicable requirements of s.
37-2;
         d.   If the nonconforming building is in the floodway, the building is
permanently changed to conform to the applicable requirements of ss.
37-3.C.1.,
37-3.C.2.b through e.,
37-3.C.3.,
37-3.C.4., and
37-6.B.. Any development that adds additional fill or creates an encroachment
in the floodplain from beyond the original nonconforming structure's 3-
D building envelope must determine the floodway in accordance with s.
37-5.E. If the encroachment is in the floodway, it must meet the standards in
s.
37-3.C.4.;
         e.   If the nonconforming building is in the floodfringe, the building
is permanently changed to conform to the applicable requirements of s.
37-4.C. and
37-6.C.;
         f.   Repair or reconstruction of nonconforming structures and
substantial improvements of residential buildings in zones A1-30, AE, and AH
must have the lowest floor including basement) elevated to or above the base
flood elevation;
         g.   Repair or reconstruction of nonconforming structures and
substantial improvements of non-residential buildings in zones A1-30, AE, and
AH must have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation, or (together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities) be designed so that below the base flood elevation the building is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy:
            (1)   Where a non-residential structure is intended to be made
watertight below the base flood elevation, a registered professional engineer
or architect must develop aondr/ review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and must certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting
the provisions of this s.
37-6.A.4.g..
            (2)   The community must maintain a record of such certification
including the specific elevation to which each such structure is floodproofed;
         h.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of repair or
reconstruction of nonconforming structures and substantial improvements in
zones A1-30, AE, and AH that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access, or storage, must be designed to adequately equalize
hydrostatic forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Subsequent improvements to repaired or reconstructed nonconforming
structures must not increase the degree of their nonconformity. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect, or meet the following criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two openings into each enclosed area must be
located below the base flood elevation and provide a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot
above the adjacent grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings if they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters;
         i.   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within zones A1-30, AE, and AH outside of a manufactured home park or
subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred
substantial damage as a result of flood, must be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above
the base flood elevation, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
         j.   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within zones A1-30, AE, and AH on existing sites in an existing manufactured
home park that is not undergoing expansion and on which a manufactured home has
not incurred substantial damage as a result of flood must be elevated so that
either the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation, or the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade, and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
         k.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH, and
AE must either:
            (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
            (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
            (3)   Meet the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in s. 37-6.A.4.i. above;
         l.   In a regulatory floodway that has been delineated on the FIRM in
zone A1-30 or AE, encroachments, including repair or reconstruction of
nonconforming structures, substantial improvement, or other development
(including fill) must be prohibited unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that the proposed encroachment will not result in any
increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge. Subsequent improvements to repair or reconstructed
nonconforming structures must not increase the degree of their nonconformity;
         m.   In zone A, the community must obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source as criteria for requiring repair or reconstruction of
nonconforming structures, substantial improvement, and other development to
meet ss.
37-6.A.4.f. through l. (inclusive) above. Any development that adds additional
fill or creates an encroachment in the floodplain from beyond the original
nonconforming structure's 3-D building envelope must determine the floodway in
accordance with s.
37-5.E. If the encroachment is in the floodway, it must meet the standards in
s.
37-3.C.4. Subsequent improvements to repair or reconstructed nonconforming
structures must not increase the degree of their nonconformity;
         n.   In zones A1-30 or AE where a regulatory floodway has not been
delineated on the FIRM, repair or reconstruction of nonconforming structures,
substantial improvement, or any development that adds additional fill or
creates an encroachment in the floodplain from beyond the original
nonconforming structure's 3-D building envelope must determine the floodway in
accordance with s.
37-5.E. If the encroachment is in the floodway, it must meet the standards in
s.
37-3.C.4. Subsequent improvements to repair or reconstructed nonconforming
structures must not increase the degree of their nonconformity;
         o.   In zone AO, repair or reconstruction of nonconforming structures
and substantial improvements of residential structures must have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM (at least two feet if
no depth number is specified). Subsequent improvements to repair or
reconstructed nonconforming structures must not increase the degree of their
nonconformity; or
         p.   In zone AO, repair or reconstruction of nonconforming structures
and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures must have the lowest
floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM (at least two feet if
no depth number is specified), or (together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities) be structurally dry-floodproofed to that level according to the
standard specified in s.
37-6.A.4.g. above. Subsequent improvements to repair or reconstructed
nonconforming structures must not increase the degree of their nonconformity.
   B.   Floodway District.
      1.   No modification or addition shall be allowed to any nonconforming
structure or any structure with a nonconforming use in the Floodway District,
unless such modification or addition:
         a.   Has been granted a permit or variance which meets all ordinance
requirements;
         b.   Meets the requirements of s.
37-6.A.;
         c.   Shall not increase the obstruction to flood flows or regional
flood height;
         d.   Any addition to the existing structure shall be floodproofed,
pursuant to s.
37-7.E., by means other than the use of fill, to the flood protection
elevation; and
         e.   If any part of the foundation below the flood protection
elevation is enclosed, the following standards shall apply:
            (1)   The enclosed area shall be designed by a registered architect
or engineer to allow for the efficient entry and exit of flood waters without
human intervention. A minimum of two openings must be provided with a minimum
net area of at least one square inch for every one square foot of the enclosed
area. The lowest part of the opening can be no more than 12 inches above the
adjacent grade;
            (2)   The parts of the foundation located below the flood
protection elevation must be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
            (3)   Mechanical and utility equipment must be elevated or
floodproofed to or above the flood protection elevation; and
            (4)   The use must be limited to parking, building access or
limited storage.
      2.   No new on-site sewage disposal system, or addition to an existing
on-site sewage disposal system, except where an addition has been ordered by a
government agency to correct a hazard to public health, shall be allowed in the
Floodway District. Any replacement, repair or maintenance of an existing on-
site sewage disposal system in a floodway area shall meet the applicable
requirements of all municipal ordinances; s.
37-7.E.3.; and Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 383.
      3.   No new well or modification to an existing well used to obtain
potable water shall be allowed in the Floodway District. Any replacement,
repair, or maintenance of an existing well in the Floodway District shall meet
the applicable requirements of all municipal ordinances; s.
37-7.E.3.; and Wis. Admin. Code chs. NR 811 and NR 812.
   C.   Floodfringe District.
      1.   No modification or addition shall be allowed to any nonconforming
structure or any structure with a nonconforming use unless such modification or
addition has been granted a permit or variance by the municipality and meets
the requirements of s.
37-4.C. except where s.
37-6.C.2. is applicable.
      2.   Where compliance with the provisions of subd. 1. above would result
in unnecessary hardship and only where the structure will not be used for human
habitation or be associated with a high flood damage potential, the Board of
Adjustment/Appeals, using the procedures established in s.
37-7.C. may grant a variance from those provisions of subd. 1. above for
modifications or additions using the criteria listed below. Modifications or
additions which are protected to elevations lower than the flood protection
elevation may be permitted if:
         a.   No floor is allowed below the regional flood elevation for
residential or commercial structures;
         b.   Human lives are not endangered;
         c.   Public facilities, such as water or sewer, shall not be
installed;
         d.   Flood depths shall not exceed two feet;
         e.   Flood velocities shall not exceed two feet per second; and
         f.   The structure shall not be used for storage of materials as
described in s.
37-4.C.5.
      3.   All new private sewage disposal systems, or addition to,
replacement, repair or maintenance of a private sewage disposal system shall
meet all the applicable provisions of all local ordinances; s.
37-7.E.3.; and Wis. Admin. Code ch. SPS 383.
      4.   All new wells, or addition to, replacement, repair, or maintenance
of a well shall meet the applicable provisions of this chapter; s.
37-7.E.3.; and Wis. Admin. Code chs. NR 811 and NR 812.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-7. ADMINISTRATION.
   Where a zoning administrator, planning agency or a board of appeals has
already been appointed to administer a zoning ordinance adopted under Wis.
Stat. ss. 59.69, 59.692, or 62.23(7), these officials shall also administer
this chapter.
   A.   Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Duties and Powers. The zoning administrator is authorized to
administer this chapter and shall have the following duties and powers:
         a.   Advise applicants of the chapter provisions, assist in preparing
permit applications and appeals, and assure that the regional flood elevation
for the proposed development is shown on all permit applications.
         b.   Issue permits and inspect properties for compliance with
provisions of this chapter and issue certificates of compliance where
appropriate/inspect and assess all damaged floodplain structures to determine
if substantial damage to the structures has occurred.
         c.   Keep records of all official actions such as:
            (1)   All permits issued, inspections made, and work approved;
            (2)   Documentation of certified lowest floor and regional flood
elevations;
            (3)   Floodproofing certificates.
            (4)   Water surface profiles, floodplain zoning maps and
ordinances, nonconforming uses and structures including changes, appeals,
variances and amendments.
            (5)   All substantial damage assessment reports for floodplain
structures.
            (6)   List of nonconforming structures and uses.
         d.   Submit copies of the following items to the Department Regional
office:
            (1)   Within ten days of the decision, a copy of any decisions on
variances, appeals for map or text interpretations, and map or text amendments;
            (2)   Copies of case-by-case analyses and other required
information;
            (3)   Copies of substantial damage assessments performed and all
related correspondence concerning the assessments.
         e.   Investigate, prepare reports, and report violations of this
chapter to the municipal zoning agency and attorney for prosecution. Copies of
the reports shall also be sent to the Department Regional office.
         f.   Submit copies of amendments to the FEMA Regional office.
      2.   Land Use Permit. A land use permit shall be obtained before any
development; repair, modification, or addition to an existing structure; or
change in the use of a building or structure, including sewer and water
facilities, may be initiated. Application to the zoning administrator shall
include:
         a.   General Information.
            (1)   Name and address of the applicant, property owner and
contractor;
            (2)   Legal description, proposed use, and whether it is new
construction or a modification;
         b.   Site Development Plan. A site plan drawn to scale shall be
submitted with the permit application form and shall contain:
            (1)   Location, dimensions, area and elevation of the lot;
            (2)   Location of the ordinary highwater mark of any abutting
navigable waterways;
            (3)   Location of any structures with distances measured from the
lot lines and street center lines;
            (4)   Location of any existing or proposed on-site sewage systems
or private water supply systems;
            (5)   Location and elevation of existing or future access roads;
            (6)   Location of floodplain and floodway limits as determined from
the official floodplain zoning maps;
            (7)   The elevation of the lowest floor of proposed buildings and
any fill using the vertical datum from the adopted study—either National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD);
            (8)   Data sufficient to determine the regional flood elevation in
NGVD or NAVD at the location of the development and to determine whether or not
the requirements of ss. 37-3 or 37-4 are met; and
            (9)   Data to determine if the proposed development will cause an
obstruction to flow or an increase in regional flood height or discharge
according to s.
37-3.B. This may include any of the information noted in s.
37-3.C.1.
         c.   Hydraulic and Hydrologic Studies to Analyze Development. All
hydraulic and hydrologic studies shall be completed under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer registered in the State. The study
contractor shall be responsible for the technical adequacy of the study. All
studies shall be reviewed and approved by the Department.
            (1)   Zone A floodplains and in AE zones within which a floodway is
not delineated:
               (a)   Hydrology.
                  [1]   The appropriate method shall be based on the standards
in Wis. Admin. Code NR 116.07(3), Hydrologic Analysis: Determination of
Regional Flood Discharge.
               (b)   Hydraulic Modeling. The regional flood elevation shall be
based on the standards in Wis. Admin. Code NR 116.07(4), Hydraulic Analysis:
Determination of Regional Flood Elevation and the following:
                  [1]   Determination of the required limits of the hydraulic
model shall be based on detailed study information for downstream structures
(dam, bridge, culvert) to determine adequate starting WSEL for the study.
                  [2]   Channel sections must be surveyed.
                  [3]   Minimum four-foot contour data in the overbanks shall
be used for the development of cross-section overbank and floodplain mapping.
                  [4]   A maximum distance of 500 feet between cross-sections
is allowed in developed areas with additional intermediate cross-sections
required at transitions in channel bottom slope including a survey of the
channel at each location.
                  [5]   The most current version of HEC-RAS shall be used.
                  [6]   A survey of bridge and culvert openings and the top of
road is required at each structure.
                  [7]   Additional cross-sections are required at the
downstream and upstream limits of the proposed development and any necessary
intermediate locations based on the length of the reach if greater than 500
feet.
                  [8]   Standard accepted engineering practices shall be used
when assigning parameters for the base model such as flow, Manning's N values,
expansion and contraction coefficients or effective flow limits. The base model
shall be calibrated to past flooding data such as high-water marks to determine
the reasonableness of the model results. If no historical data is available,
adequate justification shall be provided for any parameters outside standard
accepted engineering practices.
                  [9]   The model must extend past the upstream limit of the
difference in the existing and proposed flood profiles in order to provide a
tie-in to existing studies. The height difference between the proposed flood
profile and the existing study profiles shall be no more than 0.00 feet.
               (c)   Mapping. A work map of the reach studied shall be provided
showing all cross-section locations, floodway/floodplain limits based on best
available topographic data, geographic limits of the proposed development and
whether the proposed development is located in the floodway.
                  [1]   If the proposed development is located outside of the
floodway, then it is determined to have no impact on the regional flood
elevation.
                  [2]   If any part of the proposed development is in the
floodway, it must be added to the base model to show the difference between
existing and proposed conditions. The study must ensure that all coefficients
remain the same as in the existing model, unless adequate justification based
on standard accepted engineering practices is provided.
            (2)   Zone AE Floodplains.
               (a)   Hydrology. If the proposed hydrology will change the
existing study, the appropriate method to be used shall be based on Wis. Admin.
Code NR 116.07(3), Hydrologic Analysis: Determination of Regional Flood
Discharge.
               (b)   Hydraulic Model. The regional flood elevation shall be
based on the standards in Wis. Admin. Code NR 116.07(4), Hydraulic Analysis:
Determination of Regional Flood Elevation and the following:
                  [1]   Duplicate Effective Model. The effective model shall be
reproduced to ensure correct transference of the model data and to allow
integration of the revised data to provide a continuous FIS model upstream and
downstream of the revised reach. If data from the effective model is available,
models shall be generated that duplicate the FIS profiles and the elevations
shown in the Floodway Data Table in the FIS report to within 0.1 foot.
                  [2]   Corrected Effective Model. The Corrected Effective
Model shall not include any manmade physical changes since the effective model
date but shall import the model into the most current version of HEC-RAS for
Department review.
                  [3]   Existing (Pre-Project Conditions) Model. The Existing
Model shall be required to support conclusions about the actual impacts of the
project associated with the Revised (Post-Project) Model or to establish more
up-to-date models on which to base the Revised (Post-Project) Model.
                  [4]   Revised (Post-Project Conditions) Model. The Revised
(Post-Project Conditions) Model shall incorporate the Existing Model and any
proposed changes to the topography caused by the proposed development. This
model shall reflect proposed conditions.
                  [5]   All changes to the Duplicate Effective Model and
subsequent models must be supported by certified topographic information,
bridge plans, construction plans and survey notes.
                  [6]   Changes to the hydraulic models shall be limited to the
stream reach for which the revision is being requested. Cross-sections upstream
and downstream of the revised reach shall be identical to those in the
effective model and result in water surface elevations and top widths computed
by the revised models matching those in the effective models upstream and
downstream of the revised reach as required. The Effective Model shall not be
truncated.
               (c)   Mapping. Maps and associated engineering data shall be
submitted to the Department for review which meet the following conditions:
                  [1]   Consistency between the revised hydraulic models, the
revised floodplain and floodway delineations, the revised flood profiles,
topographic work map, annotated FIRMs and/or Flood Boundary Floodway Maps
(FBFMs), construction plans, bridge plans.
                  [2]   Certified topographic map of suitable scale, contour
interval, and a planimetric map showing the applicable items. If a digital
version of the map is available, it may be submitted in order that the FIRM may
be more easily revised.
                  [3]   Annotated FIRM panel showing the revised 1% and 0.2%
annual chance floodplains and floodway boundaries.
                  [4]   If an annotated FIRM and/or FBFM and digital mapping
data (GIS or CADD) are used, then all supporting documentation or metadata must
be included with the data submission along with the Universal Transverse
Mercator (UTM) projection and State Plane Coordinate System in accordance with
FEMA mapping specifications.
                  [5]   The revised floodplain boundaries shall tie into the
effective floodplain boundaries.
                  [6]   All cross-sections from the effective model shall be
labeled in accordance with the effective map and a cross-section lookup table
shall be included to relate to the model input numbering scheme.
                  [7]   Both the current and proposed floodways shall be shown
on the map.
                  [8]   The stream centerline or profile baseline used to
measure stream distances in the model shall be visible on the map.
         d.   Expiration. All permits issued under the authority of this
chapter shall expire no more than 180 days after issuance. The permit may be
extended for a maximum of 180 days for good and sufficient cause. If the
permitted work has not started within 180 days of the permit date, the
development must comply with any regulation, including any revision to the FIRM
or FIS, which took effect after the permit date.
      3.   Certificate of Compliance. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
building which is hereafter constructed, altered, added to, modified, repaired,
rebuilt, or replaced shall be occupied until a certificate of compliance is
issued by the zoning administrator, except where no permit is required, subject
to the following provisions:
         a.   The certificate of compliance shall show that the building or
premises or part thereof, and the proposed use, conform to the provisions of
this chapter;
         b.   Application for such certificate shall be concurrent with the
application for a permit.
         c.   If all chapter provisions are met, the certificate of compliance
shall be issued within ten days after written notification that the permitted
work is completed;
         d.   The applicant shall submit a certification signed by a registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor that the fill, lowest floor
and floodproofing elevations are in compliance with the permit issued.
Floodproofing measures also require certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect that the requirements of s.
37-7.E. are met.
         e.   Where applicable pursuant to s.
37-5.D., the applicant must submit a certification by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor of the elevation of the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structural member supporting the lowest floor (excluding pilings or columns),
and an indication of whether the structure contains a basement.
         f.   Where applicable pursuant to s.
37-5.D., the applicant must submit certifications by a registered professional
engineer or architect that the structural design and methods of construction
meet accepted standards of practice as required by s.
37-5.D.
      4.   Other Permits. Prior to obtaining a floodplain development permit
the applicant must secure all necessary permits from federal, state, and local
agencies, including but not limited to those required by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under s. 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1344.
   B.   Plan Commission.
      1.   The Plan Commission shall:
         a.   Oversee the functions of the office of the zoning administrator;
and
         b.   Review and advise the governing body on all proposed amendments
to this chapter, maps, and text.
         c.   Publish adequate notice pursuant to Wis. Stat. ch. 985,
specifying the date, time, place, and subject of the public hearing.
      2.   The Plan Commission shall not:
         a.   Grant variances to the terms of the chapter in place of action by
the Board of Adjustment/Appeals; or
         b.   Amend the text or zoning maps in place of official action by the
governing body.
   C.   Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals, created under Wis. Stat.
s. 62.23(7)(e), for cities or villages, is hereby authorized or shall be
appointed to act for the purposes of this chapter. The Board shall exercise the
powers conferred by Wisconsin Statutes and adopt rules for the conduct of
business. The zoning administrator shall not be the secretary of the Board.
      1.   Powers and Duties. The Board of Appeals shall:
         a.   Appeals - Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official in the enforcement or administration of this chapter;
         b.   Boundary Disputes - Hear and decide disputes concerning the
district boundaries shown on the official floodplain zoning map; and
         c.   Variances - Hear and decide, upon appeal, variances from the
chapter standards.
      2.   Appeals to the Board.
         a.   Appeals to the board may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by
any officer or department of the municipality affected by any decision of the
zoning administrator or other administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within 30 days unless otherwise provided by the rules of the board, by
filing with the official whose decision is in question, and with the board, a
notice of appeal specifying the reasons for the appeal. The official whose
decision is in question shall transmit to the board all records regarding the
matter appealed.
         b.   Notice and Hearing for Appeals Including Variances.
            (1)   Notice - The board shall:
               (a)   Fix a reasonable time for the hearing;
               (b)   Publish adequate notice pursuant to Wisconsin Statutes,
specifying the date, time, place, and subject of the hearing; and
               (c)   Assure that notice shall be mailed to the parties in
interest and the Department Regional office at least ten days in advance of the
hearing.
            (2)   Hearing - Any party may appear in person or by agent. The
board shall:
               (a)   Resolve boundary disputes according to s.
37-7.C.3.;
               (b)   Decide variance applications according to s.
37-7.C.4.; and
               (c)   Decide appeals of permit denials according to s.
37-7..
         c.   Decision. The final decision regarding the appeal or variance
application shall:
            (1)   Be made within a reasonable time;
            (2)   Be sent to the Department Regional office within ten days of
the decision;
            (3)   Be a written determination signed by the chairman or
secretary of the Board;
            (4)   State the specific facts which are the basis for the Board's
decision;
            (5)   Either affirm, reverse, vary or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed, in whole or in part, dismiss
the appeal for lack of jurisdiction or grant or deny the variance application;
and
            (6)   Include the reasons for granting an appeal, describing the
hardship demonstrated by the applicant in the case of a variance, clearly
stated in the recorded minutes of the Board proceedings.
      3.   Boundary Disputes. The following procedure shall be used by the
Board in hearing disputes concerning floodplain district boundaries:
         a.   If a floodplain district boundary is established by approximate
or detailed floodplain studies, the flood elevations or profiles shall prevail
in locating the boundary.
         b.   The person contesting the boundary location shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present arguments and technical evidence to the
Board; and
         c.   If the boundary is incorrectly mapped, the Board should inform
the zoning committee or the person contesting the boundary location to petition
the governing body for a map amendment according to s.
37-8, Amendments.
      4.   Variance.
         a.   The Board may, upon appeal, grant a variance from the standards
of this chapter if an applicant convincingly demonstrates that:
            (1)   Literal enforcement of the chapter will cause unnecessary
hardship;
            (2)   The hardship is due to adoption of the floodplain chapter and
unique property conditions, not common to adjacent lots or premises. In such
case the chapter or map must be amended;
            (3)   The variance is not contrary to the public interest; and
            (4)   The variance is consistent with the purpose of this chapter
in s.
37-1.C.
         b.   In addition to the criteria in subd. a., to qualify for a
variance under FEMA regulations, the Board must find that the following
criteria have been met:
            (1)   The variance shall not cause any increase in the regional
flood elevation;
            (2)   The applicant has shown good and sufficient cause for
issuance of the variance;
            (3)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship;
            (4)   Granting the variance will not result in additional threats
to public safety, extraordinary expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances; and
            (5)   The variance granted is the minimum necessary, considering
the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         c.   A variance shall not:
            (1)   Grant, extend or increase any use prohibited in the zoning
district;
            (2)   Be granted for a hardship based solely on an economic gain or
loss;
            (3)   Be granted for a hardship which is self-created.
            (4)   Damage the rights or property values of other persons in the
area;
            (5)   Allow actions without the amendments to this ordinance or map
(s) required in s.
37-8, Amendments; or
            (6)   Allow any alteration of an historic structure, including its
use, which would preclude its continued designation as an historic structure.
         d.   When a floodplain variance is granted, the Board shall notify the
applicant in writing that it may increase risks to life and property and flood
insurance premiums could increase up to $25.00 per $100.00 of coverage. A copy
shall be maintained with the variance record.
   D.   To Review Appeals of Permit Denials.
      1.   The Zoning Agency (s.
37-7.B.) or Board shall review all data related to the appeal. This may
include:
         a.   Permit application data listed in s.
37-7.A.2. ;
         b.   Floodway/floodfringe determination data in s.
37-5.E.;
         c.   Data listed in s.
37-3.C.1.b. where the applicant has not submitted this information to the
zoning administrator; and
         d.   Other data submitted with the application or submitted to the
Board with the appeal.
      2.   For appeals of all denied permits the Board shall:
         a.   Follow the procedures of s.
37-7.C.;
         b.   Consider zoning agency recommendations; and
         c.   Either uphold the denial or grant the appeal.
      3.   For appeals concerning increases in regional flood elevation the
Board shall:
         a.   Uphold the denial where the Board agrees with the data showing an
increase in flood elevation. Increases may only be allowed after amending the
flood profile and map and all appropriate legal arrangements are made with all
adversely affected property owners as per the requirements of s.
37-8, Amendments; and
         b.   Grant the appeal where the Board agrees that the data properly
demonstrates that the project does not cause an increase provided no other
reasons for denial exist.
   E.   Floodproofing Standards.
      1.   No permit or variance shall be issued for a non-residential
structure designed to be watertight below the regional flood elevation until
the applicant submits a plan certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the floodproofing measures will protect the structure or
development to or above the flood protection elevation and submits a FEMA
Floodproofing Certificate. Floodproofing is not an alternative to the
development standards in ss.
37-2,
37-3,
37-4, or
37-5.
      2.   For a structure designed to allow the entry of floodwaters, no
permit or variance shall be issued until the applicant submits a plan either:
         a.   Certified by a registered professional engineer or architect; or
         b.   Meeting or exceeding the following standards:
            (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      3.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed, as appropriate, to:
         a.   Withstand flood pressures, depths, velocities, uplift and impact
forces and other regional flood factors;
         b.   Protect structures to the flood protection elevation;
         c.   Anchor structures to foundations to resist flotation and lateral
movement;
         d.   Minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters;
         e.   Minimize or eliminate discharges into flood waters;
         f.   Placement of essential utilities to or above the flood protection
elevation; and
         g.   If any part of the foundation below the flood protection
elevation is enclosed, the following standards shall apply:
            (1)   The enclosed area shall be designed by a registered architect
or engineer to allow for the efficient entry and exit of flood waters without
human intervention. A minimum of two openings must be provided with a minimum
net area of at least one square inch for every one square foot of the enclosed
area. The lowest part of the opening can be no more than 12 inches above the
adjacent grade;
            (2)   The parts of the foundation located below the flood
protection elevation must be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
            (3)   Mechanical and utility equipment must be elevated or
floodproofed to or above the flood protection elevation; and
            (4)   The use must be limited to parking, building access or
limited storage.
   F.   Public Information.
      1.   Place marks on structures to show the depth of inundation during the
regional flood.
      2.   All maps, engineering data and regulations shall be available and
widely distributed.
      3.   Real estate transfers should show what floodplain district any real
property is in.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-8. AMENDMENTS.
   Obstructions or increases may only be permitted if amendments are made to
this chapter, the official floodplain zoning maps, floodway lines and water
surface profiles, in accordance with s.
37-8.A.
In AE Zones with a mapped floodway, no obstructions or increases shall be
permitted unless the applicant receives a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
from FEMA and amendments are made to this chapter, the official floodplain
zoning maps, floodway lines and water surface profiles, in accordance with s.
37-8.A. Any such alterations must be reviewed and approved by FEMA and the DNR.
In A Zones, increases equal to or greater than ten feet may only be permitted
if the applicant receives a Conditional Letter of Map Revision from FEMA and
amendments are made to this chapter, the official floodplain maps, floodway
lines, and water surface profiles, in accordance with s.
37-8.A.
   A.   General. The governing body shall change or supplement the floodplain
zoning district boundaries and this chapter in the manner outlined in s.
37-8.B. below. Actions which. require an amendment to the chapter and/or
submittal of a Letter of Map Change (LOMC) include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Any fill or floodway encroachment that obstructs flow causing any
increase in the regional flood height;
      2.   Any change to the floodplain boundaries and/or watercourse
alterations on the FIRM;
      3.   Any changes to any other officially adopted floodplain maps listed
in s.
37-1.E.2.b.;
      4.   Any floodplain fill which raises the elevation of the filled area to
a height at or above the flood protection elevation and is contiguous to land
lying outside the floodplain;
      5.   Correction of discrepancies between the water surface profiles and
floodplain maps;
      6.   Any upgrade to a floodplain zoning ordinance text required by Wis.
Admin. Code NR 116.05, or otherwise required by law, or for changes by the
municipality; and
      7.   All channel relocations and changes to the maps to alter floodway
lines or to remove an area from the floodway or the floodfringe that is based
on a base flood elevation from a FIRM requires prior approval by FEMA.
   B.   Procedures. Chapter amendments may be made upon petition of any party
according to the provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 62.23 for cities and villages. The
petitions shall include all data required by ss. 37-5.E. and 37-7.A.2. The Land
Use Permit shall not be issued until a Letter of Map Revision is issued by FEMA
for the proposed changes.
      1.   The proposed amendment shall be referred to the zoning agency for a
public hearing and recommendation to the governing body. The amendment and
notice of public hearing shall be submitted to the Department Regional office
for review prior to the hearing. The amendment procedure shall comply with the
provisions of Wis. Stat. s. 622.3 for cities and villages.
      2.   No amendments shall become effective until reviewed and approved by
the Department.
      3.   All persons petitioning for a map amendment that obstructs flow
causing any increase in the regional flood height, shall obtain flooding
easements or other appropriate legal arrangements from all adversely affected
property owners and notify local units of government before the amendment can
be approved by the governing body.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-20. DEFINITIONS
   Unless specifically defined, words and phrases in this chapter shall have
their common law meaning and shall be applied in accordance with their common
usage. Words used in the present tense include the future, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular. The word "may"
is permissive, "shall" is mandatory and is not discretionary.
“A Zones” means those areas shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map which
would be inundated by the regional flood. These areas may be numbered or
unnumbered A Zones. The A Zones may or may not be reflective of flood profiles,
depending on the availability of data for a given area.
“AH Zone” — See "Area of Shallow Flooding".
“AO Zone” — See "Area of Shallow Flooding".
“Accessory Structure or Use” means a facility, structure, building or use which
is accessory or incidental to the principal use of a property, structure or
building. An accessory structure shall not be used for human habitation.
“Alteration” means an enhancement, upgrade or substantial change or
modification other than an addition or repair to a dwelling or to electrical,
plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning and other systems within a
structure.
“Area of Shallow Flooding” means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone
on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flood may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow.
“Base Flood” means the flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year, as published by FEMA as part of a FIS and depicted on a FIRM.
“Basement” means any enclosed area of a building having its floor sub-grade on
all sides.
“Building” — See “Structure”.
“Bulkhead Line” means a geographic line along a reach of navigable water that
has been adopted by a municipal ordinance and approved by the Department
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 310.1, and which allows limited filling between this
bulkhead line and the original ordinary highwater mark, except where such
filling is prohibited by the floodway provisions of this chapter.
“Campground” means any parcel of land which is designed, maintained, intended,
or used for the purpose of providing sites for nonpermanent overnight use by
four or more camping units, or which is advertised or represented as a camping
area.
“Camping Unit” means any portable device, no more than 400 square feet in area,
used as a temporary shelter, including but not limited to a camping trailer,
motor home, bus, van, pickup-truck, or tent that is fully licensed, if
required, and ready for highway use.
“Certificate of Compliance” means a certification that the construction and the
use of land or a building, the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a
structure is in compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
“Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks
to confine and conduct normal flow of water.
“Crawlways or Crawl Space” means an enclosed area below the first usable floor
of a building, generally less than five feet in height, used for access to
plumbing and electrical utilities.
“Deck” means an unenclosed exterior structure that has no roof or sides and has
a permeable floor which allows the infiltration of precipitation.
“Department” means the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
“Development” means any artificial change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings,
structures or accessory structures; the construction of additions or
alterations to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the repair of any
damaged structure or the improvement or renovation of any structure, regardless
of percentage of damage or improvement; the placement of buildings or
structures; subdivision layout and site preparation; mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations; the storage, deposition or
extraction of materials or equipment; and the installation, repair or removal
of public or private sewage disposal systems or water supply facilities.
“Dryland Access” means a vehicular access route which is above the regional
flood elevation, and which connects land located in the floodplain to land
outside the floodplain, such as a road with its surface above regional flood
elevation and wide enough for wheeled rescue and relief vehicles.
“Encroachment” means any fill, structure, equipment, use or development in the
floodway.
“Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)” means the federal agency that
administers the National Flood Insurance Program.
“Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means a map of a community on which the
Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the floodplain and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. This map can only be amended by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
“Flood or Flooding” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas caused by one of the following
conditions: the overflow or rise of inland waters; the rapid accumulation or
runoff of surface waters from any source; the inundation caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels along the shore of Lake
Michigan or Lake Superior; or the sudden increase caused by an unusually high-
water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
unanticipated force of nature, such as a seiche, or by some similarly unusual
event.
“Flood Frequency” means the probability of a flood occurrence which is
determined from statistical analyses. The frequency of a particular flood event
is usually expressed as occurring, on the average once in a specified number of
years or as a percent (%) chance of occurring in any given year.
“Floodfringe” means that portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway
which is covered by flood waters during the regional flood and associated with
standing water rather than flowing water.
“Flood Hazard Boundary Map” means a map designating approximate flood hazard
areas. Flood hazard areas are designated as unnumbered A zones and do not
contain floodway lines or regional flood elevations. This map forms the basis
for both the regulatory and insurance aspects of the National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) until superseded by a Flood Insurance Study and a Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
“Flood Insurance Study” means a technical engineering examination, evaluation,
and determination of the local flood hazard areas. It provides maps designating
those areas affected by the regional flood and provides both flood insurance
rate zones and base flood elevations and may provide floodway lines. The flood
hazard areas are designated as numbered and unnumbered A zones. Flood Insurance
Rate Maps that accompany the Flood Insurance Study form the basis for both the
regulatory and the insurance aspects of the National Flood Insurance Program.
“Floodplain” means land which has been or may be covered by flood water during
the regional flood. It includes the floodway and the floodfringe and may
include other designated floodplain areas for regulatory purposes.
“Floodplain Island” means a natural geologic land formation within the
floodplain that is surrounded, but not covered, by floodwater during the
regional flood.
“Floodplain Management” means policy and procedures to ensure wise use of
floodplains, including mapping and engineering, mitigation, education, and
administration and enforcement of floodplain regulations.
“Flood Profile” means a graph or a longitudinal profile line showing the
relationship of the water surface elevation of a flood event to locations of
land surface elevations along a stream or river.
“Floodproofing” means any combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures, water and sanitary facilities and
contents of buildings subject to flooding, for the purpose of reducing or
eliminating flood damage.
“Flood Protection Elevation” means an elevation of two feet of freeboard above
the Regional Flood Elevation (also see: “Freeboard”).
“Flood Storage” means those floodplain areas where storage of floodwaters has
been taken into account during analysis in reducing the regional flood
discharge.
“Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel required to carry the regional flood
discharge.
“Freeboard” means a safety factor expressed in terms of a specified number of
feet above a calculated flood level. Freeboard compensates for any factors that
cause flood heights greater than those calculated, including ice jams, debris
accumulation, wave action, obstruction of bridge openings and floodways, the
effects of watershed urbanization, loss of flood storage areas due to
development and aggregation of the river or stream bed.
“Habitable Structure” means any structure or portion thereof used or designed
for human habitation.
“Hearing Notice” means publication or posting meeting the requirements of Wis.
Stat. ch. 985. For appeals, a Class 1 notice, published once at least one week
(seven days) before the hearing, is required. For all zoning ordinances and
amendments, a Class 2 notice, published twice, once each week consecutively,
the last at least a week (seven days) before the hearing. Local ordinances or
bylaws may require additional notice, exceeding these minimums.
“High Flood Damage Potential” means damage that could result from flooding that
includes any danger to life or health or any significant economic loss to a
structure or building and its contents.
“Highest Adjacent Grade” means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
“Historic Structure” means any structure that is either:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
or by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
“Increase in Regional Flood Height” means a calculated upward rise in the
regional flood elevation greater than 0.00 foot, based on a comparison of
existing conditions and proposed conditions which is directly attributable to
development in the floodplain but not attributable to manipulation of
mathematical variables such as roughness factors, expansion and contraction
coefficients and discharge.
“Land Use” means any nonstructural use made of unimproved or improved real
estate (also see “Development”).
“Lowest Adjacent Grade” means elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any of the exterior walls of a building.
“Lowest Floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).
“Maintenance” means the act or process of ordinary upkeep and repairs,
including redecorating, refinishing, nonstructural repairs, or the replacement
of existing fixtures, systems or equipment with equivalent fixtures, systems,
or structures.
“Manufactured Home” means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" includes a mobile home but does not include a "mobile
recreational vehicle."
“Mobile/Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land, divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
“Mobile/Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision, Existing” means a parcel of
land, divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale, on
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots is completed before
the effective date of this chapter. At a minimum, this would include the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
“Mobile/Manufactured Home Park, Expansion to Existing” means the preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed. This includes installation of
utilities, construction of streets and either final site grading, or the
pouring of concrete pads.
“Mobile Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicle which is built on a single
chassis, 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, designed to be self-propelled, carried or permanently towable by a
licensed, light-duty vehicle, is licensed for highway use if registration is
required and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
Manufactured homes that are towed or carried onto a parcel of land, but do not
remain capable of being towed or carried, including park model homes, do not
fall within the definition of "mobile recreational vehicles."
“Model, Corrected Effective” means a hydraulic engineering model that corrects
any errors that occur in the Duplicate Effective Model, adds any additional
cross sections to the Duplicate Effective Model, or incorporates more detailed
topographic information than that used in the current effective model.
“Model, Duplicate Effective” means a copy of the hydraulic analysis used in the
effective FIS and referred to as the effective model.
“Model, Effective” means the hydraulic engineering model that was used to
produce the current effective Flood Insurance Study.
“Model, Existing (Pre-Project)” means a modification of the Duplicate Effective
Model or Corrected Effective Model to reflect any manmade modifications that
have occurred within the floodplain since the date of the effective model but
prior to the construction of the project for which the revision is being
requested. If no modification has occurred since the date of the effective
model, then this model would be identical to the Corrected Effective Model or
Duplicate Effective Model.
“Model, Revised (Post-Project)” means a modification of the Existing or Pre-
Project Conditions Model, Duplicate Effective Model or Corrected Effective
Model to reflect revised or post-project conditions.
“Municipality or Municipal” means the county, city or village governmental
units enacting, administering, and enforcing this chapter.
“NAVD or North American Vertical Datum” means elevations referenced to mean sea
level datum, 1988 adjustment.
“NGVD or National Geodetic Vertical Datum” means elevations referenced to mean
sea level datum, 1929 adjustment.
“New Construction” means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain zoning regulation
adopted by this community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
“Non-Flood Disaster” means a fire or an ice storm, tornado, windstorm,
mudslide, or other destructive act of nature, but excludes a flood.
“Nonconforming Structure” means an existing lawful structure or building which
is not in conformity with the dimensional or structural requirements of this
chapter for the area of the floodplain which it occupies. (For example, an
existing residential structure in the floodfringe district is a conforming use.
However, if the lowest floor is lower than the flood protection elevation, the
structure is nonconforming.)
“Nonconforming Use” means an existing lawful use or accessory use of a
structure or building which is not in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter for the area of the floodplain which it occupies. (Such as a residence
in the floodway.)
“Obstruction to Flow” means any development which blocks the conveyance of
floodwaters such that this development alone or together with any future
development will cause an increase in regional flood height.
“Official Floodplain Zoning Map” means that map, adopted and made part of this
chapter, as described in s.
37-1.E.2., which has been approved by the Department and FEMA.
“Open Space Use” means those uses having a relatively low flood damage
potential and not involving structures.
“Ordinary Highwater Mark” means the point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a distinctive
mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized characteristic.
“Person” means an individual, or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, municipality, or state agency.
“Private Sewage System” means a sewage treatment and disposal system serving
one structure with a septic tank and soil absorption field located on the same
parcel as the structure. It also means an alternative sewage system approved by
the Department of Safety and Professional Services, including a substitute for
the septic tank or soil absorption field, a holding tank, a system serving more
than one structure, or a system located on a different parcel than the
structure.
“Public Utilities” means those utilities using underground or overhead
transmission lines such as electric, telephone and telegraph, and distribution
and collection systems such as water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer.
“Reasonably Safe from Flooding” means base flood waters will not inundate the
land or damage structures to be removed from the floodplain and that any
subsurface waters related to the base flood will not damage existing or
proposed buildings.
“Regional Flood” means a flood determined to be representative of large floods
known to have occurred in Wisconsin. A regional flood is a flood with a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, and if depicted on the
FIRM, the RFE is equivalent to the BFE.
“Start of Construction” means the date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond initial
excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
“Structure” means any manmade object with form, shape and utility, either
permanently or temporarily attached to, placed upon or set into the ground,
stream bed or lakebed, including, but not limited to, roofed and walled
buildings, gas or liquid storage tanks, bridges, dams and culverts.
“Subdivision” has the meaning given in Wis. Stat. s. 236.02(12).
“Substantial Damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure,
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the equalized assessed value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
“Substantial Improvement” means any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the equalized assessed value of the structure before the
improvement or repair is started. If the structure has sustained substantial
damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the
work performed. The term does not include either any project for the
improvement of a building required to correct existing health, sanitary or
safety code violations identified by the building official and that are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a
historic structure provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
“Unnecessary Hardship” means where special conditions affecting a particular
property, which were not self-created, have made strict conformity with
restrictions governing areas, setbacks, frontage, height, or density
unnecessarily burdensome or unreasonable in light of the purposes of the
chapter.
“Variance” means an authorization by the board of adjustment or appeals for the
construction or maintenance of a building or structure in a manner which is
inconsistent with dimensional standards (not uses) contained in the floodplain
zoning ordinance.
“Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the floodplain zoning chapter. A structure or other development
without required permits, lowest floor elevation documentation, floodproofing
certificates or required floodway encroachment calculations is presumed to be
in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
“Watershed” means the entire region contributing runoff or surface water to a
watercourse or body of water.
“Water Surface Profile” means a graphical representation showing the elevation
of the water surface of a watercourse for each position along a reach of river
or stream at a certain flood flow. A water surface profile of the regional
flood is used in regulating floodplain areas.
“Well” means an excavation opening in the ground made by digging, boring,
drilling, driving or other methods, to obtain groundwater regardless of its
intended use.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
37-50. FEES, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Fees. All applications for permits or review or action by the Village
under this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount determined by the
Village Board and set forth in the Fee Schedule.
   B.   Enforcement and Violations. Any violation of the provisions of this
chapter by any person shall be unlawful and shall be referred to the municipal
attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute all such violators.
      1.   Any person failing to comply with this chapter shall be subject to a
penalty as provided in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code. Each day of continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
      2.   A violator shall, upon conviction, forfeit to the municipality a
penalty of not more than $50.00, together with a taxable cost of such action.
Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. Every
violation of this ordinance is a public nuisance, and the creation may be
enjoined, and the maintenance may be abated by action at suit of the
municipality, the state, or any citizen thereof pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 87.30
and
Chapter 50.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 38 HISTORIC PRESERVATION
38-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is hereby declared a matter of public policy that the protection,
enhancement, perpetuation and use of improvements or sites of special character
or special architectural, archeological or historic interest or value is a
public necessity and is required in the interest of the health, prosperity,
safety and welfare of the people. The purpose of this section is to:
   A.   Effect and accomplish the protection, enhancement, and preservation of
such improvements, sites and districts which represent or reflect elements of
the Village of Rochester's cultural, social, economic, political and
architectural history.
   B.   Safeguard the Village of Rochester's historic, prehistoric and cultural
heritage, as embodied and reflected in such historic structures, sites and
districts.
   C.   Stabilize and improve property values, and enhance the visual and
aesthetic character of the Village of Rochester.
   D.   Protect and enhance the Village of Rochester's attractions to
residents, tourists and visitors, and serve as a support and stimulus to
business and industry.
38-2 DEFINITIONS
The terms used in this chapter shall have the following definitions:
“Certificate of Appropriateness” means the certificate issued by the commission
approving alteration, rehabilitation, construction, reconstruction or
demolition of a historic structure, historic site or any improvement in a
historic district.
“Commission” or “Committee” means the Historic Preservation Committee created
under this Chapter.
“Historic Preservation Overlay District” means an area designated by the
Village Board on recommendation of the Committee and the Plan Commission that
contains two or more historic improvements or sites.
“Historic Site” means any parcel of land of historic significance due to a
substantial value in tracing the history or prehistory of man, or upon which a
historic event has occurred, and which has been designated as a historic site
under this Chapter, or a parcel of land, of part thereof, on which is situated
a historic structure and any abutting parcel, or part thereof, used as and
constituting part of the premises on which the historic structure is situated.
“Historic Structure” means any improvement which has a special character or
special historic interest or value as part of the development, heritage or
cultural characteristics of the village, state or nation and which has been
designated as a historic structure pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
“Improvement” means any building structure, place, work of art or other object
constituting a physical betterment of real property, or any part of such
betterment, including streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, lighting fixtures,
signs and the like.
38-3 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION
   A Historic Preservation Committee is hereby created, consisting of at least
four members. Of the membership, if available in the community, one shall be a
historian, one a member of the Rochester Village Board, and all shall be
Village of Rochester residents or property owners. Each member shall have, to
the highest extent practicable, a known interest in historic preservation. The
President shall appoint the Committee members subject to confirmation by the
Rochester Village Board.
38-4 HISTORIC STRUCTURE, HISTORIC SITE AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION OVERLAY
DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   A.   For purposes of this Chapter, a historic structure, historic site, or
historic preservation overlay district designation may be placed on any site,
natural or improved, including any building, improvement or structure located
thereon, or any area of particular historic, architectural, archeological or
cultural significance to the Village of Rochester such as historic structures,
sites, or districts which:
      1.   Exemplify or reflect the broad cultural, political, economic or
social history of the nation, state or community; or
      2.   Are identified with historic personages or with important events in
national, state or local history; or
      3.   Embody the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural type
or specimen inherently valuable for a study of a period, style, method of
construction, or of indigenous materials or craftsmanship; or
      4.   Are representative of the notable work of a master builder, designer
or architect who influenced his age; or
      5.   Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important to
prehistory or history.
   B.   The Committee shall adopt specific operating guidelines for historic
structure, historic site and historic preservation overlay district
designations providing such are in conformance with the provisions of this
Chapter.
38-5 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   A.   Designation. The Committee shall have the power to designate historic
structures and historic sites and, subject to
Chapter 35, to recommend designation of historic districts within the Village
of Rochester limits. Such designation shall be made based on the criteria found
in section
38-4. Historic Preservation Overlay Districts shall be zoning districts,
approved by the Committee and reviewed by the Plan Commission, and approved by
the Village Board, as set forth in
Chapter 35. Once designated, such historic structures, sites and districts
shall be subject to all the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Regulation of Construction, Reconstruction, Alteration and Demolition.
      1.   No owner or person in charge of a historic structure, historic site,
or structure or site within a historic preservation overlay district shall
reconstruct, alter or demolish all or any part of the exterior of such
structure or construct any improvement upon such designated property or
properties or cause or permit any such work to be performed upon such property
or demolish such structure unless a Certificate of Appropriateness has been
granted by the Historic Preservation Committee. Unless such certificate has
been granted by the Committee, the Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator
shall not issue permits for any such work.
      2.   Upon filing of any application for a Certificate of Appropriateness
with the Committee, the Committee shall approve the application unless:
         a.   In the case of a designated historic structure or historic site,
the proposed work would detrimentally change, destroy or adversely affect any
exterior feature of the improvement or site upon which said work is to be done;
         b.   In the case of the construction of a new improvement upon a
historic site, or within a historic preservation overlay district, the exterior
of such improvement would adversely affect or not harmonize with the external
appearance of other neighboring improvements on such site or within the
district.
         c.   In the case of any property located in a historic preservation
overlay district, the proposed construction, reconstruction, exterior
alteration or demolition does not conform to the purpose and intent of this
section and the objectives and design criteria of the historic preservation
plan for said district;
         d.   The building or structure is of such architectural or historical
significance that its demolition would be detrimental to the public interest
and contrary to the general welfare of the people of the Village of Rochester
and state;
         e.   In the case of a request for the demolition of a deteriorated
building or structure, any economic hardship or difficulty claimed by the owner
is self-created or is the result of any failure to maintain the property in
good repair.
      3.   If the Committee determines that the application for a Certificate
of Appropriateness and the proposed changes are consistent with the character
and features of the property or district, it shall issue the Certificate of
Appropriateness. The Committee shall make this decision within 45 days of the
filing of the application.
      4.   The issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness shall not relieve
the applicant from obtaining other permits and approvals required by the
Village of Rochester. A building permit, zoning permit or other municipal
permit shall be invalid if it is obtained without the presentation of the
Certificate of Appropriateness required for the proposed work.
      5.   Ordinary maintenance and repairs may be undertaken without a
Certificate of Appropriateness provided that the work involves repairs to
existing features of a historic structure or site or the replacement of
elements of a structure with pieces identical in appearance and provided that
the work does not change the exterior appearance of the structure or site and
does not require the issuance of a building permit.
   C.   Appeals. Should the Committee fail to issue a Certificate of
Appropriateness due to the failure of the proposal to conform to the
guidelines, the applicant may appeal such decision to the Village Board within
30 days of the Committee’s written decision. In addition, if the Committee
fails to issue a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Committee shall, with the
cooperation of the applicant, work with the applicant in an attempt to obtain a
Certificate of Appropriateness within the guidelines of this Chapter.
   D.   Recognition of Historic Structures, Sites and Districts. At such time
as a historic structure, site or district has been properly designated, the
Committee, in cooperation with the property owner, may cause to be prepared and
erected on such property at the Village of Rochester's' expense, a suitable
plaque declaring that such property is a historic structure, site or district.
38-6 PROCEDURES.
   A.   Designation of Historic Structures and Historic Sites.
      1.   The Committee may, after notice and public hearing, designate
historic structures and historic sites, or rescind such designation or
recommendation, after application of the criteria in s.
38-4 above. At least ten days prior to such hearing, the Committee shall notify
the owners of record, as listed in the office of the Village of Rochester
assessor, who are owners of property and the owners of property in whole or in
part situated within 200 feet of the boundaries of the property affected.
      2.   The Committee shall then conduct such public hearing and, in
addition to the notified persons, may hear expert witnesses and shall have the
power to subpoena such witnesses and records as it deems necessary. The
Committee may conduct an independent investigation into the proposed
designation or rescission. Within ten days after the close of the public
hearing, the Committee may designate the property as either a historic
structure, or a historic site, or rescind the designation. After the
designation or rescission has been made, notification shall be sent to the
property owner or owners of the site. Notification shall also be given to the
Village Clerk, Building Inspector, Plan Commission, Zoning Administrator, and
the Village Assessor. The Committee shall cause the designation or rescission
to be recorded, at the Village of Rochester's expense, in the Racine County
Register of Deeds’ office.
   B.   Creation of Historic Preservation Overlay District.
      1.   For preservation purposes, the Historic Preservation Committee shall
select geographically defined areas within the Village of Rochester to be
designated as Historic Preservation Overlay Districts and shall prepare a
historic preservation plan for each area. A Historic Preservation Overlay
District may be designated for any geographic area of particular historic,
architectural or cultural significance to the Village of Rochester, after
application of the criteria in Section
38-4 above. Each Historic Preservation Plan prepared for or by the Historic
Preservation Committee shall include a cultural and architectural analysis
supporting the historic significance of the area, the specific guidelines for
development, and a statement of preservation objectives.
      2.   Review and Adoption Procedure.
         a.   Historic Preservation Committee. The Historic Preservation
Committee, together with the Plan Commission, shall hold a public hearing when
considering the plan for a Historic District. Notice of the time, place and
purpose of the public hearing shall be sent by the Village Clerk to the owners
of record, as listed in the office of the Village Assessor, who are owners of
the property within the proposed Historic Preservation Overlay District or are
situated in whole or in part within 200 feet of the boundaries of the proposed
District. Said notice is to be sent at least ten days prior to the date of the
public hearing. Following the public hearing, the Historic Preservation
Committee and the Plan Commission shall vote to recommend, reject or withhold
action on the plan. A Historic Preservation Overlay District is a zoning
classification and is subject to the provisions of
Chapter 35 of this Municipal Code.
         b.   The Village of Rochester Board. The Village Board, upon receipt
of the recommendations from the Historic Preservation Committee and the Plan
Commission, shall hold a public hearing as required by
Chapter 35 and either designate or reject the Historic Preservation Overlay
District. Designation of the Historic Preservation Overlay District shall
constitute adoption of the plan prepared for that district and direct the
implementation of said plan.
38-7 INTERIM CONTROL
   No building permit or zoning permit shall be issued for alteration,
construction, demolition, or removal of a nominated historic structure,
historic site, or any property or structure within a nominated historic
preservation overlay district from the date of the meeting of the Historic
Preservation Committee at which a nomination form is first presented until the
final disposition of the nomination by the Historic Preservation Committee,
Plan Commission and the Village Board unless such alteration, removal or
demolition is authorized by formal resolution of the Village Board as necessary
for public health, welfare or safety. In no event shall the delay be for more
than 180 days.
38-50 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or persons violating any provision of this Chapter shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in
Chapter 50. Each and every day during which a violation continues shall be
deemed to be a separate offense. Notice of violations shall be issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
CHAPTER 39 LIVESTOCK FACILITIES
39-1. AUTHORITY.
   This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the powers granted under the Wisconsin
Constitution and Wisconsin Statutes, including but not limited to Wis. Stat.
ss. 92.15 and 93.90. Further this ordinance is adopted pursuant to the powers
granted to the Village Board pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 61.34, 61.35 and 62.23
for the protection of public health and safety.
39-2. PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to comply with requirements of Wis. Stat. s.
93.90 and Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51, and to establish standards and
authority to protect the public health and safety of the people of the Village
of Rochester. This ordinance sets forth the procedures for obtaining a license
for the siting of new and expanded livestock facilities in the Village of
Rochester.
39-3. DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions found in Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51 are hereby
incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein. The following
definitions from Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51 on the date of the adoption of
this chapter are included for convenience, but in the event of a conflict, the
definitions in the most current version of Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51 shall
prevail.
“Adjacent” means located on land parcels that touch each other, or on land
parcels that are separated only by a river, stream, or transportation or
utility right–of–way.
“Affected Neighbor” means, for purposes of the odor score calculation under
Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.14, a residence or high-use building located within
2,500 feet of any livestock structure at a proposed livestock facility.
"Affected neighbor" does not include a residence or high-use building owned by
any of the following:
   A.   The livestock facility operator.
   B.   A person who affirmatively agrees to have the residence or high-use
building excluded from the odor score calculation under Wis. Admin. Code s.
ATCP 51.14. Note: The odor score calculation under Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP
51.14 is based, in part, on the proximity and density of "affected neighbors."
“Animal Lot” means a feedlot, barnyard or other outdoor facility where
livestock are concentrated for feeding or other purposes. "Animal lot" does not
include a pasture or winter grazing area. Two or more animal lots at the same
livestock facility constitute a single animal lot, for purposes of this
chapter, if runoff from the animal lots drains to the same treatment area under
Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.20(2) or if runoff from the animal lot treatment
areas converges or reaches the same surface water within 200 feet of any of
those treatment areas.
“Animal Unit” has the meaning given in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 243.03(3), i.e.,
a unit of measure used to determine the total number of single animal types or
combination of animal types, as specified in Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 243.11,
that are at an animal feeding operation.
“Certified Agricultural Engineering Practitioner” means an agricultural
engineering practitioner who is certified under Wis. Admin Code s. ATCP 50.46
with a rating under Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 50.46(5) that authorizes the
practitioner to certify every matter that the practitioner certifies under this
chapter.
“Complete Application for Local Approval” means an application that contains
everything required under Wis. Admin. Code ss. ATCP 51.30 (1) to (4).
“Expanded Livestock Facility” means the entire livestock facility that is
created by the expansion, after the date of the adoption of this chapter, of an
existing livestock facility. "Expanded livestock facility" includes all
livestock structures in the expanded facility, regardless of whether those
structures are new, existing or altered.
“Expansion” means an increase in the largest number of animal units kept at a
livestock facility on at least 90 days in any 12-month period. The acquisition
of an existing livestock facility, by the operator of an adjacent livestock
facility, does not constitute an "expansion" unless that operator increases the
largest number of animal units kept at the combined livestock facilities on at
least 90 days in any 12-month period.
“High-Use Building” means any of the following buildings:
   A.   A residential building that has at least six distinct dwelling units.
   B.   A restaurant, hotel, motel or tourist rooming house that holds a permit
under Wis. Stat. s. 254.64.
   C.   A school classroom building.
   D.   A hospital or licensed care facility.
   E.   A non-farm business or workplace that is normally occupied, during at
least 40 hours of each week of the year, by customers or employed workers.
“Livestock” means domestic animals traditionally used in this state in the
production of food, fiber or other animal products. "Livestock" includes
cattle, swine, poultry, sheep and goats. "Livestock" does not include equine
animals, bison, farm-raised deer, fish, captive game birds, ratites (e.g.,
ostriches and emus), camelids (e.g., camels, alpacas and llamas) or mink.
“Livestock Facility” means a feedlot, dairy farm or other operation where
livestock are or will be fed, confined, maintained or stabled for a total of 45
days or more in any twelve–month period. A "livestock facility" includes all of
the tax parcels of land on which the facility is located, but does not include
a pasture or winter grazing area. Related livestock facilities are collectively
treated as a single "livestock facility" for purposes of this chapter, except
that an operator may elect to treat a separate species facility as a separate
"livestock facility."
“Livestock Structure” means a building or other structure used to house or feed
livestock, to confine livestock for milking, to confine livestock for feeding
other than grazing, to store livestock feed, or to collect or store waste
generated at a livestock facility. "Livestock structure" includes a barn,
milking parlor, feed storage facility, feeding facility, animal lot or waste
storage facility. "Livestock structure" does not include a pasture or winter
grazing area, a fence surrounding a pasture or winter grazing area, a livestock
watering or feeding facility in a pasture or winter grazing area, or a machine
shed or like facility that is not used for livestock.
“Manure” means excreta from livestock kept at a livestock facility. "Manure"
includes livestock bedding, water, soil, hair, feathers, and other debris that
becomes intermingled with livestock excreta in normal manure handling
operations.
“New Livestock Facility” means a livestock facility that will be used as a
livestock facility for the first time, or for the first time in at least five
years. "New livestock facility" does not include an expanded livestock facility
if any portion of that facility has been used as a livestock facility in the
preceding five years.
“Operator” means a person who applies for or holds a local approval for a
livestock facility.
“Pasture” means land on which livestock graze or otherwise seek feed in a
manner that maintains the vegetative cover over all of the grazing or feeding
area.
“Person” means an individual, corporation, partnership, cooperative, limited
liability company, trust or other legal entity.
“Populate” means to add animal units for which local approval is required.
“Property Line” means a line that separates parcels of land owned by different
persons.
“Qualified Nutrient Management Planner” means a person qualified under Wis.
Admin. Code s. ATCP 50.48.
“Registered Professional Engineer” means a professional engineer registered
under Wis. Stat. ch. 443.
“Related Livestock Facilities” means livestock facilities that are owned or
managed by the same person, and related to each other in at least one of the
following ways:
   A.   They are located on the same tax parcel or adjacent tax parcels of
land. Note: A mere acquisition of a neighboring livestock facility does not
constitute an "expansion" unless more animal units are added to the combined
facilities.
   B.   They use one or more of the same livestock structures to collect or
store manure.
   C.   At least a portion of their manure is applied to the same land-
spreading acreage.
“Runoff” means storm water or precipitation including rain, snow, ice melt or
similar water that moves on the land surface via sheet or channelized flow.
“Separate Species Facility” means a livestock facility that meets all of the
following criteria:
   A.   It has only one of the following types of livestock, and that type of
livestock is not kept on any other livestock facility to which the separate
species facility is related under the definition of Related Livestock
Facilities:
      1.   Cattle.
      2.   Swine.
      3.   Poultry.
      4.   Sheep.
      5.   Goats.
   Note: For purposes of subsection A., cattle and poultry are different
"types" of livestock, but dairy and beef cattle are livestock of the same
"type" ("cattle"). Milking cows, heifers, calves and steers (all "cattle") are
livestock of the same "type." Turkeys, ducks, geese and chickens are livestock
of the same "type" ("poultry").
   B.   It has no more than 500 animal units.
   C.   Its livestock housing and manure storage structures, if any, are
separate from the livestock housing and manure storage structures used by
livestock facilities to which it is related under the definition of Related
Livestock Facilities.
   D.   It meets one of the following criteria:
      1.   Its livestock housing and manure storage structures, if any, are
located at least 750 feet from the nearest livestock housing or manure storage
structure used by a livestock facility to which it is related under the
definition of Related Livestock Facilities.
      2.   It and the other livestock facilities to which it is related under
the definition of Related Livestock Facility have a combined total of fewer
than 1,000 animal units.
      “Site that is Susceptible to Groundwater Contamination” means any of the
following:
   A.   An area within 250 feet of a private well.
   B.   An area within 1,000 feet of a municipal well.
   C.   An area within 300 feet upslope or 100 feet downslope of a karst
feature.
   D.   A channel with a cross-sectional area equal to or greater than three
square feet that flows to a karst feature.
   E.   An area where the soil depth to groundwater or bedrock is less than two
feet.
   F.   An area where none of the following separates the ground surface from
groundwater and bedrock:
      1.   A soil layer at least two feet deep that has at least 40% fine soil
particles.
      2.   A soil layer at least three feet deep that has at least 20% fine
soil particles.
      3.   A soil layer at least five feet deep that has at least 10% fine soil
particles.
   Note: See Wis. Admin. Code s. NR 151.015(18).
“Unconfined Manure Pile” means a quantity of manure at least 175 cubic feet in
volume that covers the ground surface to a depth of at least two inches, but
does not include any of the following:
   A.   Manure that is confined within a manure storage facility, livestock
housing structure or barnyard runoff control facility.
   B.   Manure that is covered or contained in a manner that prevents storm
water access and direct runoff to surface water or leaching of pollutants to
groundwater.
“Waste” means manure, milking center waste and other organic waste generated by
a livestock facility.
“Waste Storage Facility” means one or more waste storage structures. "Waste
storage facility" includes stationary equipment and piping used to load or
unload a waste storage structure if the equipment is specifically designed for
that purpose and is an integral part of the facility. "Waste storage facility"
does not include equipment used to apply waste to land.
“Waste Storage Structure” means a waste storage impoundment made by
constructing embankments, excavating a pit or dugout, or fabricating a
structure. "Waste storage structure" does not include equipment used to apply
waste to land. For purposes of Wis. Admin. Code ss. ATCP 51.12(2), Manure
Storage Structure; Setback, and 51.14, Odor and Air Emissions, and the
provisions of s.
39-6C of this Chapter, waste storage structure setbacks, "waste storage
structure" does not include any of the following:
   A.   A structure used to collect and store waste under a livestock housing
facility.
   B.   A manure digester consisting of a sealed structure in which manure is
subjected to managed biological decomposition.
“Winter Grazing Area” means cropland or pasture where livestock feed on dormant
vegetation or crop residue, with or without supplementary feed, during the
period October 1 to April 30. "Winter grazing area" does not include any of the
following:
   A.   An area, other than a pasture, where livestock are kept during the
period from May 1 to September 30.
   B.   An area which at any time has an average of more than four livestock
animal units per acre.
   C.   An area from which livestock have unrestricted access to navigable
waters of the state, such that the livestock access prevents adequate
vegetative cover on banks adjoining the water.
   D.   An area in which manure deposited by livestock causes nutrient levels
to exceed standards in Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.16.
“WPDES Permit” means a Wisconsin pollutant discharge elimination system permit
issued by the DNR under Wis. Admin. Code ch. NR 243.
39-4. LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A.   Generally. A license issued by the Village of Rochester is required for
new or expanded livestock facilities that will have 500 or more animal units.
      1.   Licenses for Existing Livestock Facilities.
         a.   A license is required for the expansion of a pre-existing or
previously approved livestock facility if the number of animal units kept at
the expanded livestock facility will exceed all of the following:
            (1)   The applicable size threshold for a license.
            (2)   The maximum number previously approved by Racine County or,
if no maximum number was previously approved, a number that is 20% higher than
the number kept on the effective date of this chapter.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection 1., a license is not required for a
livestock facility that existed before the effective date of this chapter.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection 1., a license is not required for
livestock facility that was previously issued a conditional use permit, license
or other local approval. A prior approval for the construction of a livestock
facility implies approval for the maximum number of animal units that the
approved livestock facility was reasonably designed to house, except as
otherwise clearly provided in the approval. Prior approval of a single
livestock structure, such as a waste storage structure, does not constitute
prior approval of an entire livestock facility.
39-5. LICENSING ADMINISTRATION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall have the primary responsibility of
administering this chapter and related matters thereto. The Zoning
Administrator may refer the application for a license to the Racine County Land
Conservation Office, the Village Engineer, DATCP, and/or another consultant for
assistance in reviewing the application.
39-6. LICENSING STANDARDS.
   The standards for issuing a license are as follows:
   A.   State Standards Adopted. The state livestock facility siting standards
adopted under Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51, inclusive of all appendices and
worksheets and any future amendments to the chapter, are incorporated by
reference in this chapter, without reproducing them in full.
   B.   Zoning Districts Where Livestock Facilities Are Allowed. Four distinct
agricultural zoning districts exist in the Village which share a variety of
common regulations with respect to livestock operations based on the passage of
Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51. A new or expanded livestock facility housing 500
or more animal units is allowed in the zoning districts listed in this
subsection. A new or expanded livestock facility is not allowed in any other
district of the Village.
      1.   A-1 General Farming District I
      2.   A-2 General Farming and Residential District II
      3.   A-3 General Farming District III – Holding District
      4.   A-4 Truck Farming District
   C.   Location on Property. In addition to the setback requirements of the
underlying zoning district and any applicable floodplain, shoreland/wetland or
shoreland zoning requirements, the following setbacks shall apply to livestock
structures:
      1.   Property lines.
         a.   Except as provided for waste storage structures, livestock
structures must be located a minimum of 100 feet from the property line if the
livestock facility will have fewer than 1,000 animal units, and 200 feet from
the property line if the livestock facility will have 1,000 or more animal
units.
         b.   The setback requirement does not prevent the use or expansion of
a livestock structure that was located within the setback area prior to the
effective date of the setback requirement, except that a structure may not be
expanded closer to the property line.
      2.   Public road right-of-way.
         a.   Except as provided for waste storage structures, livestock
structures must be located a minimum of 100 feet from public road right-of-way
if the livestock facility will have fewer than 1,000 animal units, and 150 feet
from a public road right-of-way if the livestock facility will have 1,000 or
more animal units.
         b.   The setback requirement does not prevent the use or expansion of
a livestock structure that was located within the setback area prior to the
effective date of the setback requirement, except that a structure may not be
expanded closer to the public road right-of-way.
      3.   Waste Storage Structure.
         a.   A new waste storage structure may not be located within 350 feet
of a property line, or within 350 feet of the nearest point of any public road
right-of-way.
         b.   A single new waste storage structure may be constructed closer to
the property line or public road if the new structure is:
            (1)   Located on the same tax parcel as a waste storage structure
in existence before the date of the adoption of this chapter; and
            (2)   No larger than the existing structure; and
            (3)   No further than 50 feet from the existing structure; and
            (4)   No closer to the road or property line than the existing
structure.
         c.   This setback requirement does not apply to existing waste storage
structures, except that an existing structure within 350 feet of a property
line or road may not expand toward that property line or road.
39-7. LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A.   A livestock operator must complete the application form and worksheets
prescribed by Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51. The application form and worksheets
demonstrate compliance with standards in Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51 and this
chapter.
   B.   The operator must file four duplicate copies of the application form,
including worksheets, maps and documents (other than engineering design
specifications) included in the application.
39-8. LICENSE APPLICATION FEE.
   A non-refundable application fee in an amount determined by the Village
Board and set forth in the fee schedule, payable to the Village of Rochester,
shall accompany an application for the purpose of offsetting the Village’s
costs to review and process the application. The fee shall bear a reasonable
relationship to the service for which the fee is imposed, and take into account
the costs of any published notices; mailings; meeting costs including special
meetings; contracted services of consultants to assist in reviewing the
application and any other reasonable costs that may be attributed to the costs
to review and process the application.
39-9. APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   A.   Pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.30(5), within 45 days after the
Village receives an application, it shall notify the applicant whether the
application is complete. If the application is not complete, the notice shall
describe the additional information needed. Within 14 days after the applicant
provides all of the required information, the Village shall notify the
applicant that the application is complete. This notice does not constitute an
approval of the proposed livestock facility.
   B.   Pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.30(6), within 14 days after the
Village notifies an applicant that the application is complete, the Village
shall notify adjacent landowners of the application. The Village shall use the
approved notice form in Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP 51, and mail by first class
mail a written notice to each adjacent landowner.
   C.   Upon determination of completeness the Village Clerk shall give notice
of a public hearing to receive information from the applicant and receive
public input on the application. Public notice shall be a class 2 notice the
last of which is at least a week before the date of the public hearing. The
public hearing may be continued, but final decision shall be made within the
time limits described in the next subsection.
   D.   Grant or Denial; Extension.
      1.   Pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.32, the Village shall grant
or deny an application within 90 days after the Village gives notice that the
application is complete under subsection B above. The Village may extend this
time limit for good cause, including any of the following:
         a.   The Village needs additional information to act on the
application.
         b.   The applicant materially modifies the application or agrees to an
extension.
      2.   The Village shall give written notice of any extension. The notice
shall specify the reason for the extension, and the extended deadline date by
which the Village will act on the application.
39-10. CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   A.   A license shall be issued if the application for the proposed livestock
facility:
      1.   Complies with this Chapter, and
      2.   Is complete, and
      3.   Contains sufficient credible information to show, in the absence of
clear and convincing information to the contrary, that the proposed livestock
facility meets the standards specified in this chapter, specifically Section
39-6 above.
      Note: If the application and worksheets prescribed by Wis. Admin. Code
ch. ATCP 51 are properly completed, there is a rebuttable presumption that the
applicant has met the application requirements.
   B.   A license shall be denied if any of the following apply:
      1.   The application, on its face, fails to meet the standard for
approval in subsection A.
      2.   The Village finds, based on other clear and convincing information
in the record that the proposed livestock facility does not comply with
applicable standards in this Chapter.
      3.   The Village finds other grounds authorized by Wis. Stat. s. 93.90
that warrant disapproving the proposed livestock facility.
39-11. RECORD OF DECISION.
   A.   The Village shall issue its decision in writing. The decision must be
based on written findings of fact supported by evidence in the record. Findings
may be based in part on the presumptions created by Wis. Admin. Code ch. ATCP
51.
   B.   If the Village approves the application, it shall give the applicant a
duplicate copy of the approved application, marked “approved.” The duplicate
copy must include worksheets, maps and other documents (other than engineering
specifications) included in the application.
   C.   The Village Clerk, as required by Wis. Admin. Code s. ATCP 51.36 shall
do all of the following within 30 days of the Village decision on the
application:
      1.   Give the Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection
written notice of the Village decision.
      2.   File with the Department a copy of the final application granted or
denied, if the Village has granted or denied an application under this chapter.
The copy shall include all of the worksheets, maps and other attachments
included in the application, except that it is not required to include the
engineering design specifications.
      3.   If the Village has withdrawn a local approval under this chapter,
file with the department a copy of the Village’s final notice or order
withdrawing the local approval.
      Note: The information in this paragraph may shall be submitted to the
Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection at the following
address:
      Wisconsin DATCP – Agricultural Resource Management Division
      Bureau of Land and Water Resources
      P.O. Box 8911
      Madison, Wis. 53708-8911
39-12. TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   A license and the privileges granted by the license run with the land
approved under the license and remain in effect, despite a change in ownership
of the livestock facility, as long as the new operator does not violate the
terms of the Village approval. An applicant may record with the register of
deeds, at the applicant’s expense, the duplicate copy of the approved
application. The Village requires that upon change of ownership of the
livestock facility, the new owner of the facility shall file information with
the Village Clerk providing pertinent information, including but not limited to
such information as the name and address of the new owner and date of transfer
of ownership.
  39-13. EXPIRATION OF LICENSE
   A license remains in effect regardless of the amount of time that elapses
before the livestock operator exercises the authority granted under license,
and regardless of whether the livestock operator exercises the full authority
granted by the approval. However, the Village may treat a license as lapsed and
withdraw the license if the license holder fails to do all of the following
within two years after issuance of license:
   A.   Begin populating the new or expanded livestock facility; and
   B.   Begin constructing all of the new or expanded livestock housing or
waste storage structures proposed in the application for local approval.
39-14. LICENSE TERMS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   A license and the privileges granted by a license issued under this chapter
is conditioned on the livestock operator’s compliance with the standards in
this chapter, and with commitments made in the application for a license. The
operator may make reasonable changes that maintain compliance with the
standards in this chapter, and the Village shall not withhold authorization for
those changes. A violation of the license or a failure to comply with the
commitments made in the application may result in a stop work order, suspension
and/or termination of the license or the imposition of penalties as provided in
ss.
39-13, 39-15,
39-16 and
39-50 of this chapter.
39-15. COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   The Village shall monitor compliance with the chapter as follows:
   A.   Upon notice to the livestock facility owner, request the right of the
Village Zoning Administrator to personally view the licensed premises at a
reasonable time and date to ensure that all commitments of the application as
approved are being complied with.
   B.   If the livestock facility owner refuses the Village Zoning
Administrator the right to view the licensed premises, the Zoning Administrator
may obtain a special inspection warrant to inspect the licensed premises for
the purpose of protection of the public health and safety under Wis. Stat. s.
66.0119.
   C.   If a licensed premises is found not to be in compliance with the
commitments made in the approved application, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a written notice to the livestock facility owner stating the conditions
of non-compliance and directing that the commitments of the approved
application and license be complied with in a reasonable amount of time stated
in the written notice.
   D.   If non-compliance of the license conditions as described in the written
notice given by the Zoning Administrator continue past the stated reasonable
time to comply, the Zoning Administrator may take further action as provided in
this chapter, including but not limited to issuance of a stop work order,
citation or seeking of injunctive relief. The Zoning Administrator will charge
a fee for any re-inspection that is made after the first inspection to
determine whether the licensed premises are in compliance with the notice,
provided that no fee shall be charged for the re-inspection if the property is
found to be in compliance.
   E.   If the livestock facility owner disputes that the conditions of the
license have not been complied with, the livestock facility owner may request a
hearing in writing within five days of receipt of the notice of noncompliance.
The Village Board shall schedule a hearing within five days to determine if the
conditions of the license have been complied with or whether non- compliance
with the commitments of the approved application and local approval exists.
39-16. ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   A.   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue Stop Work Orders. The
Zoning Administrator is authorized to post an order stopping work upon land
that has had a permit suspended or revoked or on land currently undergoing
activity in violation of this chapter. Notice is given by both: posting upon
the land where the violation occurred one or more copies of a notice and order
stating the violation, and by mailing a copy of the notice and order by
certified mail to the person whose activity is in violation of this chapter.
The notice and order shall specify that the activity must cease immediately or
be brought into compliance within five calendar days. The Zoning Administrator
shall provide written notification as to the reason(s) for the Stop Work Order.
   B.   Any order stopping work shall remain in effect unless retracted by the
Village Board or by a court of general jurisdiction; or until the activity is
brought into compliance with this chapter and the terms of the license.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to refer any violation of this
chapter or of any stop work order issued pursuant to this chapter to the
village attorney or district attorney for commencement of further legal
proceedings.
   D.   The issuance of a stop work order by the Zoning Administrator under
this section may be appealed to the Village Board within 30 days of the
issuance of the order.
39-17. APPEALS.
   A.   In addition to other appeal rights provided by law, Wis. Stat. s. 93.90
(5) provides that any “aggrieved person” may request review by the Wisconsin
Livestock Facility Siting Review Board of any decision by the Village in
connection with a permit application. An “aggrieved person” may challenge the
decision on the grounds that the Village incorrectly applied the standards
under this chapter or violated Wis. Stat. s. 93.30.
   B.   An “aggrieved person” under this section as defined in Wis. Stat. s.
93.90(5) means a person who applied to a political subdivision for approval of
a livestock siting or expansion, a person who lives within two miles of the
livestock facility that is proposed to be sited or expanded, or a person who
owns land within two miles of a livestock facility that is proposed to be sited
or expanded.
   C.   An “aggrieved person” may request review of any decision of the Zoning
Administrator or action by the Village Board.
   D.   Any appeal brought under this section must be requested with 30 days of
the Village Board’s approval or disapproval of the license.
   E.   Any appeal to the State Livestock Facility Siting Review Board shall
comply with Wis. Stat. s. 93.90 and the administrative rules of said board.
39-18. SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of this chapter that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to that end, the provisions of this chapter are
severable.
39-50. PENALTIES.
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or
who knowingly makes any material false statement or knowing omission in any
document required to be submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be subject
to the penalties set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Municipal Code, and to any of the following penalties:
      1.   Upon conviction, pay a forfeiture in an amount set by the Village
Board and set forth in the Deposit Schedule, plus the applicable surcharges,
assessments and costs for each violation. Each day a violation exists or
continues shall be considered a separate offense under this chapter.
      2.   The Village Board may seek injunctive relief from a court of record
to enjoin further violations.
      3.   The Village Board may suspend or revoke its approval of a license
under this chapter after due notice to the livestock facility owner and a
public hearing to determine whether the license should be suspended or revoked.
   B.   The Village shall exercise sound judgment in deciding whether to
suspend or revoke a license. The Village shall consider extenuating
circumstances, such as adverse weather conditions, that may affect an
operator’s ability to comply.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter, the cost of
abatement of any public nuisance on the licensed premises by the Village may be
collected under this chapter or Wis. Stat. s. 823.06 against the owner of the
real estate upon which the public nuisance exists. Such costs of abatement may
also be recovered against the real estate as a special charge under Wis. Stat.
s. 66.0627 unless paid earlier.
CHAPTER 50 CONSTRUCTION AND EFFECT OF ORDINANCES
50-1. ADOPTION OF CODE
   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0103, this Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Rochester of a general and permanent nature, consisting of Chapters 1 through
50, are hereby approved, adopted, ordained and enacted as the “Municipal Code
of the Village of Rochester,” and may be referred to herein as the “Municipal
Code” or the “Code.” This Code may be amended from time to time by adoption of
ordinances showing that they are intended to be made a part of this Code.
50-2. EFFECTIVE DATE
   This Municipal Code shall first take effect on July 1, 2014, upon public
hearing, passage and publication as provided by Wis. Stat. s. 66.0103 and the
adoption ordinance, and may be amended by subsequent ordinances as provided by
law.
50-3. CODE SUPERSEDES PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   The Village of Rochester and the Town of Rochester were consolidated on
December 16, 2008. This Code supersedes both the Municipal Code of the Village
of Rochester and the Town of Rochester Code of Ordinances in effect on the date
of the consolidation, and all other general and permanent ordinances enacted
prior to the enactment of this Code, except those ordinances that are expressly
saved from repeal or continued in force as set forth in this Chapter.
50-4. REPEALER; LEGISLATION SAVED FROM REPEAL.
   A.   Repealer. All ordinances or parts of ordinances of a general and
permanent nature adopted and in force on the date of adoption of this Code and
not contained in the Code are hereby repealed as of the effective date of the
adoption of this Code, except as set forth in this Chapter.
   B.   Ordinances and Legislative Acts Saved from Repeal. The adoption of this
Code and the repeal of ordinances provided for in section A. shall not affect
the following ordinances, legislative acts, rights and obligations, which are
hereby expressly saved from repeal when not in conflict with the provisions of
the Code:
      1.   Village of Rochester Ordinance No. 3-2008, and Town of Rochester
Ordinance No. 2- 2008, both entitled “An Ordinance Providing for the
Consolidation of The Village of Rochester and the Town of Rochester Pursuant to
Sec. 66.0229, Wis. Stats., provided, however, that the provisions of such
ordinances in conflict with this Code are superseded as set forth in s.
50-3.
      2.   Any ordinance adopted by the Village subsequent to December 16, 2008
and made effective for the consolidated Village by its terms provided, however,
that the provisions of such ordinance in conflict with this Code are superseded
as set forth in s.
50-3.
      3.   Any right or liability established, accrued or incurred under any
legislative provision by the Village of Rochester or the Town of Rochester
prior to the effective date of this Code or any action or proceeding brought
for the enforcement of such right or liability, including but not limited to:
         a.   The issuance of corporate bonds and notes of the Village of
Rochester or the Town of Rochester of whatever name or description, including
sewerage mortgage revenue bonds.
         b.   Rights, licenses, franchises, easements or privileges or the
creation of any contract with the Village or Town of Rochester.
         c.   Appropriating money or transferring funds, promising or
guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance and delivery of
any instrument or evidence of indebtedness
         d.   Authorizing the sale, lease or transfer of property or any lawful
contract or obligation.
         e.   Release of persons or other entities from liability.
      4.   Any ordinance or resolution providing for the planning, locating,
dedicating, opening, closing, altering, widening, relocating, straightening,
establishing grade, curb lines and/or width, paving, naming, renaming,
improvement, acceptance or vacation of any right-of-way, easement, street,
road, alley, highway, park or other public place or any portion thereof.
      5.   Currently effective legislative acts providing for the fixing of
salaries and other compensation of public officials and employees.
      6.   The lighting of streets and alleys.
      7.   The annexation or dedication of property or approval of preliminary
or final subdivision plats.
      8.   Legislative acts providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
or special assessments therefor.
      9.   The levying of taxes, assessments, charges or other levies by
legislative act.
      10.   Any legislation establishing a specific fee amount for any license,
permit or service obtained from the Village.
      11.   The establishment of wards, ward boundaries and election precincts.
      12.   Construction of any public works or the letting of contracts.
      13.   Sewer rates, rules and regulations and sewer main construction.
      14.   Budget ordinances, resolutions and actions.
      15.   Any offense or act committed or done before the effective date of
this Code in violation of any legislative provision or any penalty, punishment
or forfeiture which may result therefrom.
      16.   Any prosecution, indictment, action, suit or other proceeding
pending or any judgment rendered brought pursuant to any legislative provision.
      17.   The administrative resolutions of the Village not in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of the Code;
      18.   Any resolution regulating the erection, alteration, repair,
demolition, moving or removal of buildings or other structures, except as may
have been amended as part of this recodification;
      19.   Ordinances zoning or rezoning specific parcels, including
regulations, liabilities and responsibilities set forth therein, especially
ordinances creating Planned Unit Developments, except as specific zoning
designations may have been amended as part of this recodification;
      20.   Charter ordinances;
      21.   Sewer and Storm Water Utility rates, rules and regulations and
sewer and storm water utility construction, except as may be modified as part
of the adoption of the Fee Schedule along with the recodification.
   C.   Successor in Interest. The Village of Rochester is the successor in
interest to all valid rights, privileges and liabilities of the Town of
Rochester, which ceased to exist as a separate entity of December 16, 2008.
50-5. EFFECT OF REPEALS.
   The repeal or amendment of any section or provision of this Code or of any
other ordinance or resolution of the Board shall not:
   A.   By implication be deemed to revive any ordinance not in force or
existing at the time at which such repeal or amendment takes effect.
   B.   Affect any vested right, privilege, obligation, or liability acquired,
accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed or amended, unless the
privilege of repealing such obligation or privilege has been reserved by the
Village.
   C.   Affect any offense committed or penalty or forfeiture incurred previous
to the time when any ordinance is repealed or amended; except when any
forfeiture or penalty is mitigated by the provisions of any ordinance, such
provisions shall apply to and control any judgment to be pronounced after such
ordinance takes effect for any offense committed before that time.
   D.   Affect any prosecution for any offense or the levy of any penalty or
forfeiture pending at the time when any ordinance aforesaid is repealed or
amended; but the right of action shall continue and the offender shall be
subject to the penalty as provided in such ordinance, and such prosecution
shall proceed, in all respects, as if such ordinance or ordinances had not been
repealed, except all such proceedings had after the time this Code takes effect
shall be conducted according to the provisions of this Code.
50-6. CHANGES IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   In compiling and preparing the Municipal Code of the Village of Rochester,
the ordinances previously adopted by the Village of Rochester and the Town of
Rochester were reviewed and, where appropriate, merged, replaced, or included
in this Code; provided, however, the previous ordinances may have been
substantively changed and entirely new ordinances included. While reference to
the previous ordinances may be appropriate in some cases, any changes reflect
the intent of the Village Board to proceed under the terms of the Code adopted
herein.
50-10. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the following rules shall be
observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the ordinance:
   A.   Wisconsin Statutes. All references to "Wisconsin Statutes" or "Wis.
Stat." wherever used in this Code, shall mean the Wisconsin Statutes as of the
adoption of this Code, and references to the “Wisconsin Administrative Code” or
“Wis. Admin. Code” wherever used in this Code, shall mean the Wisconsin
Administrative Code as of the adoption of this Code, as the statutes and
administrative code may be amended or renumbered from time to time. When State
or federal statutes and Codes conflict or are more restrictive than this
Municipal Code, the stricter provisions shall prevail.
   B.   Gender, Singular and Plural. Every word in this Code and in any
ordinance imparting the masculine gender may extend and be applied to females
as well as males, and vice versa, and every word imparting the singular number
only may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one
person or thing; provided these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any provision which contains any express language excluding such construction
or when the subject matter or context of such provisions may be repugnant
thereto.
   C.   Person. The word “person” extends and applies to natural persons,
firms, corporations, limited liability companies, associations, partnerships,
bodies politic, and all entities of any kind capable of being sued unless
plainly inapplicable.
   D.   Acts of Agents. When a provision requires an act to be done which may
by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirements shall
be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
50-11. CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   A.   Conflict of Provisions. If the provisions of the different chapters of
this Code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each
chapter shall prevail as to all matters and questions arising out of the
subject matter of such chapter. In the event that any ordinance or part of an
ordinance or regulation or part of regulation is in conflict with the provision
of a specific chapter, the stricter and more specific provision shall prevail.
   B.   Severability of Code and Ordinance Provisions. If any section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of the Code or any Ordinance is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by reason of any decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase or portion thereof
which can be given effect without such invalid part or parts The Board hereby
declares that it would have passed this Code, and subsequent Ordinances
amending this Code, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof may be declared invalid
or unconstitutional.
50-12. CLERK TO FILE DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   Whenever in this Code any standard, code, rule, regulation or other written
or printed matter is adopted by reference, it shall be deemed incorporated in
this Code as if fully set forth herein and the Clerk or his or her designee
shall file, deposit and keep in the Clerk’s office a copy of the code,
standard, rule, regulation or other written or printed matter as adopted;
provided however that statutory, administrative code, and similar materials
available from an outside source are not required to be filed. Materials so
filed, deposited and kept shall be public records open for examination with
proper care by any person during the Clerk’s office hours, subject to such
orders or regulations which the Clerk may prescribe for their preservation.
50-13. KEEPING CODE CURRENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk or his or her designee to keep the
certified copy of the Code book up to date. After ordinances affecting the
Municipal Code become effective, the Village Clerk shall incorporate them into
the Municipal Code on a regular basis. The Clerk shall make no substantive
changes to such ordinances but may renumber, rearrange and edit them without
first submitting them to the Village Board; and such rearranging, renumbering
and editing shall not affect the validity of such ordinances and resolutions or
the provisions of this Municipal Code affected thereby.
50-20. GENERAL PENALTY
   Unless another penalty is specifically provided therein, any person who
violates any provision of this Code shall, upon conviction of such violation,
be subject to a penalty, which shall be as follows:
   A.   First offense: penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this
Code shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $20 nor more than
$200, together with all applicable fees, surcharges, costs and restitution. In
default of payment thereof, the person shall be subject to Subsection C.
   B.   Second offense: penalty. Any person found guilty of violating any
provision or part of a provision of this Code who was previously convicted of a
violation of the same ordinance within one year shall, upon conviction thereof,
forfeit not less than $40 nor more than $400 for each such offense, together
with all applicable fees, surcharges, costs and restitution. In default of
payment thereof, the person shall be subject to Subsection C.
   C.   Default of payment. In default of payment of any forfeiture, fee,
surcharge, cost or restitution, the Court may order any remedy allowed pursuant
to Wis. Stat. ss. 66.0114 and 800.095, including but not limited to
imprisonment in the County Jail until such forfeiture, fees, surcharge and
costs are paid, but not exceeding 90 days for any one judgment. The person
shall receive a credit for each day of imprisonment as set forth in Wis. Stat.
s. 800.095(1)(b). This section shall not apply to restitution orders or to
cases where service of the summons and complaint or citation is made by mail.
50-21. JUVENILE PENALTIES.
   A.   Court authority to impose alternative juvenile dispositions and
sanctions. For a juvenile adjudged to have violated an ordinance, the court is
authorized to impose any of the dispositions listed in Wis. Stat. ss. 938.342,
938.343 and 938.344, in accordance with the provisions of those statutes.
   B.   For a juvenile adjudged to have violated an ordinance who violates a
condition of a dispositional order of the court under Wis. Stat. ss. 938.342,
938.343 or 938.344, the court is authorized to impose any of the sanctions
listed in Wis. Stats. s. 938.355(6)(d), in accordance with the provisions of
those statutes.
50-22. CONTINUED VIOLATIONS
   Each violation and each day a violation continues or occurs is a separate
offense. Nothing in this Code shall preclude the Village from maintaining any
appropriate action to prevent or remove a violation of any provision of this
Code.
50-23. RESTITUTION.
The Court may order the defendant to pay restitution pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss.
66.0114 and 800.093.
50-24. ENFORCEMENT.
   A.   Statutory Authority. Pursuant to the authority granted by Wis. Stat.
ss. 66.0113 and 66.0114, the use of a citation to be issued for violations of
ordinances, including those for which a statutory counterpart exists, is hereby
authorized.
   B.   Officials Authorized to Issue Citations. Citations authorized in
Subsection A above may be issued by law enforcement officers. Where Village
officials, with respect to sections of the Code which are directly related to
the official's area of responsibility, have cause for the issuance of a
citation, those officials shall contact the Police Department, and the Police
Department shall record a complaint and, if appropriate, issue a citation upon
said complaint; provided, however, that the Health Officer may issue citations
pursuant to Chapter 25.
   C.   Prosecution. The Village Attorney shall prosecute ordinance violations
in the Racine County Circuit Court.
   D.   Citation Form. Uniform Traffic Citation Forms and Municipal Citation
forms conforming to the provisions of Wis. Stat. ss. 66.0113 and 66.0114 shall
be used for violations of traffic ordinances and for violations of other
ordinances, and shall serve as the initial pleading, provided, however, that a
summons and complaint shall be used for commencement of an action if required
by statute, ordinance or court order.
   E.   Service. Unless otherwise provided by this Code or by other law,
service of a citation may be by personal delivery, by leaving a copy of the
citation at the person's place of residence, or by mailing a copy by first
class mail to the person's last known address.
   F.   Schedule of cash deposits.
      1.   Traffic Violations. Any forfeiture for violation of the state
statutes adopted by reference in this Code shall conform to the forfeiture
permitted to be imposed for violation of such statutes as set forth in the
“Revised Uniform State Traffic Deposit Schedule and Alcohol Beverages,
Harassment, Safety, Tobacco, UW Rule, and Drug Paraphernalia and Rental Unit
Energy Efficiency Violations Deposit Schedule and Uniform Misdemeanor Bail
Schedule and Trespass to Land Deposit Schedule,” adopted by the Wisconsin
Judicial Conference, also referenced herein as the “Uniform Deposit Schedule,”
as may be amended from time to time, in effect on the date of the violation,
including any variations or increases for subsequent offenses, which schedule
and all revisions thereto is adopted by reference, unless otherwise specified
in this section or in this chapter.
      2.   The schedule of cash deposits for the various non-traffic ordinances
for which a citation may be issued are as established on the deposit schedule
approved and adopted by the Village Board, a copy of which is on file with the
Clerk, and which may be amended from time to time by ordinance. In addition to
the deposit amount listed, the deposit must include court costs and all
surcharges, assessments and costs imposed by Wisconsin Statutes.
      3.   In the event that a deposit amount for a non-traffic ordinance
violation is not found in the Village schedule adopted in Subsection F.2., a
deposit in the amount set forth in the Uniform Deposit Schedule in effect on
the date of the violation for the offense, including any variations or
increases for subsequent offenses, may be used to establish the cash deposit
allowed.
      4.   If the violation is not listed on either of the above schedules, the
cash deposit shall be the maximum allowable forfeiture set forth for the
violation as listed in the specific ordinance or, if no specific amount is set
forth, 50% of the maximum applicable penalty set forth in section 50- 20. of
this Municipal Code, to which shall be added all of the required surcharges,
fees, assessments and costs listed above. See also the penalty sections present
in each chapter of this Code. If the violation is listed in the Village
schedule and it is noted that no deposit is allowed and an appearance is
required, the Court shall determine the cash deposit amount.
   G.   Court Actions.
      1.   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. ss. 66.0113 and 66.0114, except where a court
appearance is specifically required by statute or ordinance, an alleged
violator may either appear in court at the time and on the date specified, and/
or may make a cash deposit in the amount specified. If the alleged violator
makes the cash deposit, he or she may appear in court to enter a plea. If the
alleged violator makes the cash deposit and fails to appear in court, he or she
shall be considered to have tendered a plea of no contest and submitted to the
applicable forfeiture, assessments and costs. The court may accept or reject
the plea, and may summon the alleged violator to determine whether restitution
should be ordered.
      2.   If an alleged violator fails to make a cash deposit and fails to
appear in court at the time specified, the court may issue a summons or warrant
for the person’s arrest, or consider the nonappearance to be a plea of no
contest and enter judgment accordingly if service was made personally or
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 968.04(3)(b)2, or the Village may commence an action
pursuant to Wis. Stat. s. 66.0114.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection H, cash deposits, forfeitures,
fees, costs and assessments shall be made to the Racine County Clerk of Court,
which shall issue receipts therefore. The Racine County Clerk of Court shall
thereafter remit such receipts to the Village of Rochester Treasurer after
making such deductions therefrom and disbursements as required by statute.
      4.   All other procedures shall be as provided in Wis. Stat. Chapter 66
and as otherwise provided by law.
   H.   Parking Citations. A person who wishes to plead no contest to a parking
citation may do so by tendering the plea and the payment of the forfeiture to
the Village Clerk-Treasurer within 7 days of the citation. All citations not
paid within 7 days of issuance shall be forwarded to the circuit court, and the
applicable court costs shall be added to the amount of the cash deposit
required.
   I.   Remedies not exclusive.
      1.   Adoption of this section does not preclude the Village Board from
adopting any other ordinance providing for the enforcement of any other law or
ordinance relating to the same or other matters, nor does it limit the method
of enforcement by any legal means.
      2.   The issuance of a citation hereunder shall not preclude the Village
or any authorized officer from proceeding under any other ordinance or law or
by any other enforcement method to enforce any ordinance, regulation or order.
   J.   Liaison with Village Board. In an effort to keep the Village Board
informed as to the costs and revenues associated with ordinance enforcement, it
is suggested that the Treasurer report quarterly to the Board.
50-50. ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
   No person may improperly change, alter, amend or tamper with any portion of
this Code in a manner that would cause the Municipal Code of the Village of
Rochester to be misrepresented. Any person who violates this section is subject
to, upon conviction, a forfeiture of not more than $400, plus all applicable
costs.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     30-12,
                     30-25,
2018-6   10-8-2018   30-91,
                     30-92,
                     30-101,
                     30-102
                     1-2,
2018-7   12-10-2018  1-7.5,
                     1-12,
                     1-19
                     35-21,
                     35-22,
                     35-41 —
                     35-45,
                     35-51 —
                     35-53,
2019-1   4-8-2019    35-100,
                     35-171,
                     35-173 —
                     35-177,
                     35-179,
                     35-230,
                     35-240
2019-2   4-8-2019    37-1
2019-5   6-10-2019   11-7
2019-7   12-9-2019   5-4
2020-03  7-13-2020   30-123,
                     30-124
                     35-29,
                     35-41,
2020-4   10-12-2020  35-45,
                     35-47,
                     35-300
2020-5   10-12-2020  35-62
2020-7   10-12-2020  25-1,
                     25-3
2021-1   7-13-2021   35-100,
                     35-151
                     8-5,
2021-2   7-13-2021   13-1—
                     13-6
                     35-21,
                     35-30,
                     35-53,
2022-2   6-6-2022    35-62,
                     35-71,
                     35-73,
                     35-74
2022-3   6-6-2022    30-14
2022-4   5-2-2022    6-7
2022-6   11-16-2022  30-15
                     36-22,
2022-7   11-16-2022  36-53,
                     36-56
2023-1   3-13-2023   35-21,
                     35-34
2023-3   4-24-2023   35-40
2023-4   4-10-2023   35-180
2023-5   4-10-2023   35-21
2023-6   4-10-2023   35-21
2023-7   5-8-2023    35-300
2023-8   6-12-2023   35-62,
                     35-100
2023-9   6-12-2023   5-6
2023-11  8-28-2023   10-31
2023-12  10-23-2023  1-2,
                     1-12
                     37-1—
2023-13  12-11-2023  37-8,
                     37-20,
                     37-50
2024-1   1-22-2024   30-112
2024-2   1-22-2024   1-19
2024-3   4-22-2024   35-21
2024-4   4-22-2024   35-21
2024-5   3-11-2024   9-4
2024-6   5-13-2024   35-100
2024-7   6-10-2024   1-25
                    
 
