TOWN OF SINCLAIR, WYOMING
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1: TOWN CODE
Section
   
1-1-1   Title
   
1-1-2   Codification authority
   
1-1-3   Acceptance
   
1-1-4   Amendments
   
1-1-5   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
1-1-6   Code alterations
§ 1-1-1 TITLE.
   Upon adoption by the Town Council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official Town Code of Sinclair. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the Sinclair Town Code, and is hereby
published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the town as provided in §
1-1-4. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 1-1-2 CODIFICATION AUTHORITY.
   This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the town codified pursuant to the provision of
Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-1-103, 15-1-114, 15-1-115, and 15-1-116, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 1-1-3 ACCEPTANCE.
   This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in §
1-2-1.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 1-1-4 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Ordinance amendments. Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth
the title, chapter, and section number of the section or sections to be
amended, and this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory
requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of
this code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared
for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of this code.
   (B)   Reference applies to amendments. Whenever a reference is made to this
code as the “Sinclair Town Code,” or to any portion thereof, or to any
ordinance of the town, codified herein, the reference shall apply to all
amendments, corrections, and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 1-1-5 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor of the town is vested with jurisdiction for the enforcement of
municipal ordinances over all places within five miles of the corporate limits
of the town for the enforcement of health or quarantines and the regulation
thereof, and in all matters excepting taxation, within one-half mile of the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 1-1-6 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace, or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer when directed so to do by order of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-6) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Repeal of general ordinances; exceptions
   
1-2-2   Public ways and public utility ordinances
   
1-2-3   Reference to specific ordinances
   
1-2-4   Court proceedings: effect of repeal
   
1-2-5   Severability clause
§ 1-2-1 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of
this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      (1)   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town, or any evidence of
the town’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for town officers;
      (3)   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
      (4)   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations;
      (5)   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust;
      (6)   Ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places;
      (7)   Improvement ordinances;
      (8)   Ordinances relating to elections;
      (9)   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the town; and
      (10)   All special ordinances.
   (B)   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the
same extent as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 1-2-2 PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service, or rates of public
utilities, shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of §
1-2-1, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which
case, this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 1-2-3 REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code shall not, in any manner, affect matters of
record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances which are
therein specifically designated by number, or otherwise, and which are included
within this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the
corresponding provisions contained within this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 1-2-4 COURT PROCEEDINGS: EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   Prior acts.
      (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
      (2)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of
an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby.
   (B)   Extend to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current pending actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation,
or as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 1-2-5 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code, or any
codes or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or any code adopted
herein, or of any ordinance in this code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal, or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of
this code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section
   
1-3-1   Construction of words; interpretations
   
1-3-2   General definitions
   
1-3-3   Title, chapter, and section headings
§ 1-3-1 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Liberal construction. All general provisions, terms, phrases, and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Town Council may be fully carried
out.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (C)   Computation of time. Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a legal
holiday, in which case that day shall also be excluded.
   (D)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty, unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   (E)   Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied
to other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words giving “joint authority” to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   (G)   May, must, and shall. The word “may” is permissive, and the words
“must” and “shall” are mandatory.
   (H)   Or; and. “Or” may be read “and,” and “and” may be read “or,” if the
sense requires it.
   (I)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   (J)   Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   (K)   Title of office. Use of the title of any officer, employee,
department, board, or commission means that officer, employee, department,
board, or commission of the town.
   (L)   Preceding, following. Next before and next after, respectively.
   (M)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as
well as the past and present.
   (N)   Acts by agents. When an act is required by an ordinance, the same
being such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent.
   (O)   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting. Whenever in the
ordinances of the town, any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the
fact of such act or omission.
   (P)   Ordinance provisions; construction.
      (1)   The provisions of the ordinances of the town, and all proceedings
under them are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to
promote justice.
      (2)   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the town has
been changed in the content of this code to “title,” “chapter,” “section,” and/
or “division” or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to town ordinances is not meant to amend passage and
effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 1-3-2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CODE.   The Town Code of Sinclair, Wyoming.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of Sinclair, Wyoming. ALL ITS MEMBERS or ALL
COUNCIL MEMBERS means the total number of Council members holding office.
   COUNTY. The County of Carbon, Wyoming.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year shall run from July 1 of each and every year
through June 30 of the succeeding year.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the town, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Sinclair, Wyoming.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation of declaration in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation may be substituted for an OATH, and, in such cases, the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of
any of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Wyoming.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to statutes of the state as they now are or
as they may be amended to be.
   STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs, or other public ways in this town which have been or
may hereafter be designated and open to public use, or such other public
property so designated in any law of this state.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TOWN. The Town of Sinclair, Wyoming, or the area within the territorial
limits of the town of Sinclair, Wyoming, and such territory outside Sinclair,
over which the Town of Sinclair has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provision.
   VICE MAYOR. A Council member appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
governing body who is authorized to perform all of the legal duties of the
office of the Mayor when the Mayor is unavailable or unable to perform said
duties for any reason.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person’s proper mark.
   YEAR.   A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2) (Ord. 395, passed 5-20-2021; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 1-3-3 TITLE, CHAPTER, AND SECTION HEADINGS.
   Title, chapter, and section headings contained in this code shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or
intent of the provisions of any title, chapter, or section of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
1-4-1   General penalty
   
1-4-2   Application of provisions
   
1-4-3   Liability of officers
   
1-4-4   Right of entry
§ 1-4-1 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty imposed. Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the town
an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or the ordinances of the town the doing
of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
the violation of any such provision shall be punishable by a fine of not
exceeding $750; provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or less
than the penalty provided for the same or a similar offense under the laws of
the state.
   (B)   Continuing violation. Each day any violation of any provision of this
code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Nuisance abatement. In the event that any such violation is designated
as a nuisance under any provision of this code or any ordinance of the town,
such nuisance may be summarily abated by the Police Department of the town.
   (D)   Additional charge. In addition to any fine imposed under this section,
such violator shall be taxed not exceeding $10 in costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1) (Ord. 394, passed 12-3-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. §§ 6-10-103 and 15-l-103(a)(xli)
§ 1-4-2 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in §
1-4-1 shall be applicable to every section of this code the same as though it
were a part of each and every separate section.
   (B)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 1-4-3 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Town Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 1-4-4 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever any officer or employee of the town is authorized
to enter any building or premises for the purpose of making an inspection to
enforce any ordinance, he or she may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same; provided, that he or she shall effect
entry in the manner provided in division (B) below, except in emergency
situations, or when consent of the person having charge or control of such
building or premises has been otherwise obtained.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   If the building or premises to be inspected is occupied, the
authorized officer or employee shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry; and if such building or premises is unoccupied, he or she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry.
      (2)   If consent to such entry is not given, the authorized officer or
employee shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   (C)   Refusal or failure to consent. This section shall be controlling over
any other ordinance or part of an ordinance on the same subject, whether
heretofore or hereafter adopted, unless such ordinance or part of an ordinance
provides differently by an express reference to this section. Notwithstanding
any other ordinance of the town, whether heretofore or hereafter adopted, it
shall not be a violation of this section to refuse or fail to consent to an
entry for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
CHAPTER 5: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-5-1   Election, appointment, and removal
   
1-5-2   Determination of vacancy
   
1-5-3   Salaries of Council and Mayor
   
1-5-4   Mayor, duties and powers
   
1-5-5   Council meetings
   
1-5-6   Rules of order
§ 1-5-1 ELECTION, APPOINTMENT, AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Election and term of officers. The officers of the town are a Mayor
and four Council members, all of whom shall be elected, and all of whom shall
serve four-year terms.
   (B)   Appointment; term; removal. The Clerk-Treasurer, Police Chief,
Attorney, Municipal Judge, Community Events Director, Maintenance Supervisor,
Water Department Supervisor, and Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the consent of the governing body, for a term of four years or until their
successors are duly appointed and qualified, and may be removed by the Mayor
and governing body for incompetency or neglect of duty at any time during the
four-year term. All other appointments, except the appointment of members of a
board or commission, and removals shall be made by the Mayor with consent of
the governing body, or as consent is required by statute or ordinance. The
governing body shall determine the method of appointing members of a board or
commission unless the method of appointing such members is specified by
separate statute or ordinance.
   (C)   Appointment procedure. Unless necessitated by a vacancy to occur
sooner, the Mayor shall make the appointments of the officials in division (B)
above with the Council’s approval at the first regular meeting in January, one
year from the date of the Mayor’s term in office.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 315, passed 6-27-1996; Ord. 364, passed 3-1-2012;
Ord. 397, passed 2-17-2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 1-5-2 DETERMINATION OF VACANCY.
   A vacancy in an elected office within the town shall be determined to exist
at such time as the Council, by motion, finds that the incumbent:
   (A)   Dies;
   (B)   Resigns;
   (C)   Is determined by a court having jurisdiction to be mentally
incompetent;
   (D)   Is disqualified from holding office for any reason specified by law;
   (E)   Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or constituting a
breach of his or her oath of office;
   (F)   Refuses to take the oath of office;
   (G)   Refuses to give or renew an official bond if required by law;
   (H)   Had his or her election voided by a court decision; or
   (I)   No longer resides within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 1-5-3 SALARIES OF COUNCIL AND MAYOR.
   (A)   Council. Members of the Town Council shall receive salaries as
follows: $50 for actual attendance at each regular or special meeting of the
Council and any other meeting or function which the Town Council has authorized
the Council member to attend as a representative of the Town Council.
   (B)   Mayor. The Mayor of the town shall receive a salary as follows: $400
per month, to be paid in 12 monthly installments.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 1-5-4 MAYOR, DUTIES AND POWERS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the Mayor shall:
   (A)   Preside at all meetings of the Town Council;
   (B)   Have superintending control of all officers and affairs of the town;
   (C)   Take care that there is compliance with ordinances and laws;
   (D)   Administer oaths;
   (E)   Sign commissions and appointments;
   (F)   Sign all bonds, contracts, and other obligations required to be signed
in the name of the town; and
   (G)   Have one vote on all propositions coming before the Town Council and
be considered a Council member for purposes of this code, unless such
classification is clearly contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 1-5-5 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held
on the first and third Thursdays of each month at an hour designated by the
Council; provided, that in all instances that such day is observed as a legal
holiday for municipal offices, the regular meeting of the Town Council shall be
held on the following day; provided, however, the Council may change the date
of a regular meeting by resolution and giving notice of the date and time of
the change to a newspaper of general circulation in the town not less than one
week before such meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called whenever they
are deemed to be necessary by a majority of the members of the Town Council.
      (2)   Notice of such special meetings shall be given to all Council
members and to a newspaper of general circulation in the town, radio, or
television station requesting such notice. Notice shall be posted in two
locations around town. The notice shall specify the time and place of the
special meeting and the business to be transacted.
      (3)   The action of the Town Council at each special session shall be
limited to the subject matter in the notice, and the minutes of the meeting
shall be entered in the minutes book of the Town Council by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   Adjourned meetings.
      (1)   Any meeting may be adjourned to a later date, except that no
meeting may be adjourned to a date beyond the next regular meeting.
      (2)   Only such matters as could legally be considered at the original
meeting may be considered at the adjourned meeting.
   (D)   Executive sessions. When the nature of the business so requires, the
Town Council, by a vote of two-thirds of the members present, may go into
executive session and exclude the public therefrom.
   (E)   Open meetings. Meetings of the Council shall be open to the public
pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 16-4-403.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 1-5-6 RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Rule 1: Call to order; quorum.
      (1)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the governing body shall be
called to order by the presiding officer.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, or some competent member acting for the
Clerk-Treasurer shall call the roll. If a quorum is present, the governing body
shall proceed to the business which may come before it.
      (3)   A majority of the governing body shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting.
   (B)   Rule 2: Order of business. The order of business at each regular
Council meeting shall be as follows, and shall not in any case be altered,
except by consent of a majority of the members present voting thereon:
      (1)   Call to order. The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the Mayor pro
tem, shall call the meeting to order precisely at the appointed hour.
      (2)   Roll call. Before proceeding with the order of business, the Clerk-
Treasurer or his or her deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the
names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
      (3)   Reading of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a Council
meeting is requested by a member of the Council, the minutes of the preceding
meeting, which have been furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer to each Council
member, shall be considered approved if correct, and errors rectified, if any
exist.
      (4)   Petitions. Petitions, remonstrances, communications, and comments
or suggestions from citizens present shall be heard by the Council. All such
remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a whole, and not to any member
thereof. Such remarks shall be limited to a reasonable time and such
determination will be in the discretion of the presiding officer. No member
other than the individual speaking shall enter into the discussion without the
permission of the presiding officer.
      (5)   Reports by officers. Town officials and/or committees shall present
such reports as may be required by the Town Council.
      (6)   Old business. The Council shall consider any business that has been
previously considered and which is still unfinished.
      (7)   New business. The Council shall consider any business not
heretofore considered, including the introduction or reading of ordinances and
resolutions.
      (8)   Other business. Prior to adjournment, the Council shall, as it
deems necessary, consider such business as is not specifically provided for
herein.
      (9)   Adjournment. The Council may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate.
   (C)   Rule 3: Preservation of order. The Mayor or presiding officer shall
preserve order, prevent personal reflections, confine members in debate to the
question, and shall decide who shall be first heard when two members arise at
the same time. Any member of the Council, when called to order by the presiding
officer, shall at once suspend his or her remarks.
   (D)   Rule 4: Recognition by presiding officer. Each Council member, before
speaking on any question, shall address himself or herself to the presiding
officer by his or her proper title, and shall not proceed with his or her
remarks until recognized and named by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Rule 5: Motions, generally. No question on a motion shall be debated
or put to a vote unless the same be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it
shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate or action thereon. Any
motion shall be reduced to writing by the Council member making such motion, if
the presiding officer or Council member shall ask it.
   (F)   Rule 6: Division of question. If the question before the Council
contains more than one distinct proposition, any Council member may have the
same divided.
   (G)   Rule 7: Reason for voting. Any member of the Council may state his or
her reason for voting upon any question either immediately before or
immediately after the vote is taken, but he or she shall confine his or her
remarks to the subject under consideration.
   (H)   Rule 8: Voting Council member. Each member of the Council who shall be
present when a question is to be voted upon shall vote thereon, unless excused
therefrom by the Council. He or she may, before the vote is called for, give
his or her reasons for not voting. If he or she is directly interested in the
question, he or she shall not vote.
   (I)   Rule 9: Record of ayes and nays. On the question of the passage of an
ordinance or resolution, the vote of the Council shall be taken by ayes and
nays and a record of the same shall be made upon the journal, which shall show
how each member voted.
   (J)   Rule 10: Call for ayes and nays; record; change of vote. The ayes and
nays shall be taken at the request of a Council member, and a record of the
same, together with the name of the Council member calling for the division,
shall be entered upon the journal, which shall show how each member voted. Any
member may change his or her vote previous to the announcement of the vote of
the Council.
   (K)   Rule 11: Precedence of subsidiary motions.
      (1)   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received,
except as herein specified, which motion shall have precedence in the order
stated as follows:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   The previous question;
         (c)   To lay on the table;
         (d)   To close debate at specified time;
         (e)   To especially assign to a time certain;
         (f)   To refer to a committee; and
         (g)   To amend.
      (2)   These several motions shall not be applied to each other, except
that the motion to assign, refer, amend, or to close debate at a specified time
may be amended; and the previous question may be demanded upon the amendment,
which motion shall be decided without debate. When one of these motions has
been made, none of the others inferior to it in precedence shall be made, and
in proceeding to vote, motions pending shall be put in the order of their rank
as above arranged. No motion or proposition of a subject different from that
under consideration shall be admitted under color or amendment.
   (L)   Rule 12: Motion to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the Council shall always be in order, except:
         (a)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While a vote is being taken;
         (c)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
         (d)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn cannot be amended, but a motion to
adjourn to a time named may be amended and is open to debate.
   (M)   Rule 13: Previous question.
      (1)   The previous question shall be in this form: “Shall the main
question now be put?” It shall only be admitted when demanded by a majority of
the members present, and its effect shall be to put an end to all debate and
bring the Council to a direct vote, first upon pending amendments, and then
upon the main question.
      (2)   When the previous question is decided in the negative, it shall
leave the main question under debate for the remainder of the meeting unless
sooner disposed of by taking the question, or in some other manner.
   (N)   Rule 14: Motion to lay on the table.
      (1)   A motion to simply lay a question on the table is not debatable. A
motion to take the subject matter from the table may be proposed and carried
into effect; provided, that two-thirds of the Council members present vote in
favor thereof.
      (2)   A motion to lay any particular proposition on the table shall apply
to that proposition only.
   (O)   Rule 15: Special order of business.
      (1)   Any matter before the Council may be set down as a special order of
business at a certain time if two-thirds of the Council members present vote in
the affirmative, but not otherwise.
      (2)   When such time arrives, if the Council is in session, the presiding
officer or any Council member may call up such special order, which shall then
be considered.
   (P)   Rule 16: Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
   (Q)   Rule 17: Motion to strike out and insert. On an amendment to “strike
out and insert,” the paragraph or sentence to be amended shall be first read as
it stands, then the words proposed to be struck out, and then those proposed to
be inserted, and finally, the paragraph or sentence as it would stand if so
amended.
   (R)   Rule 18: Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be considered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter.
      (2)   A motion for reconsideration being once made and decided in the
negative shall not be renewed, nor shall a vote to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (3)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by a member who
voted in the majority.
   (S)   Rule 19: Petitions and communications.
      (1)   Petitions, memorials, and all communications and papers addressed
to the Council, Mayor, or presiding officer, or presented by a Council member
in his or her place, may be read by the Town Clerk-Treasurer at the request of
a Council member or the presiding officer.
      (2)   All petitions, memorials, communications, and papers, which may be
filed with, or delivered to, the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to the meeting of
the Council, shall be laid upon the desk of the Mayor or presiding officer.
   (T)   Rule 20: Record of names of movers of motions. In all cases where a
motion is entered upon the journal of the Council, the name of the member
moving the same shall also be entered.
   (U)   Rule 21: Minutes of proceedings.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a minute book of the
proceedings of the Council, and shall cause Council members and officers of the
town to be informed of such duties as they may be charged with by the Council
from time to time, and he or she shall perform such other duties as appertain
to him or her as Town Clerk-Treasurer. He or she shall not allow the minute
book, records, accounts, or papers to be taken from his or her table or out of
his or her custody, except by the regular mode of business of the Council, or
by an officer authorized so to do; and if any paper in his or her charge shall
be missing, he or she shall report the fact to the presiding officer at once,
in order that the loss may be investigated.
      (2)   The minutes book of the proceedings shall be open to the public for
inspection at all reasonable times.
   (V)   Rule 22: Allowance of bills or claims. No bills or claims against the
town shall be allowed except as authorized by written requisition, except
salaries of town officials, and until approved by a majority of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
CHAPTER 6: RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
1-6-1   Authority
   
1-6-2   Purpose
   
1-6-3   Establishment of records program
   
1-6-4   Benefit of records retention program
   
1-6-5   Municipal retention schedules
   
1-6-6   Transfer of records to records retention center
§ 1-6-1 AUTHORITY.
   Wyo. Stat. § 9-2-410 states: “All public records are the property of the
state. They shall be delivered by outgoing officials and employees to their
successors and shall be preserved, stored, transferred, destroyed, or disposed
of, and otherwise managed, only in accordance with Wyo. Stat. §§ 9-2-405
through 9-2-413.” These statutes and this code provide the Town Clerk-Treasurer
the authority to develop and maintain a records management system that will
effectively and efficiently ensure the safety, maintenance, preservation, and
disposition of records developed by certain town agencies.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 1-6-2 PURPOSE.
   The citizens of the town have a right to expect efficient and cost effective
government, and the management of town records is necessary for the economic
operation of the town. Preservation of records of permanent value is mandatory
to provide citizens with information concerning historical and operational
data. The establishment of uniform standards and procedures for the
maintenance, preservation, microfilming, or other disposition of town records
is necessary for continuity of records procedures and access to records.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 1-6-3 ESTABLISHMENT OF RECORDS PROGRAM.
   The governing body of the town declares its support of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s efforts to establish and adopt a records management program for the
orderly and efficient retention, retrieval, and disposition of records of the
town. The creation of a records program will be administered pursuant to legal,
fiscal, administrative, and archival requirements and in accordance with state
law. The state records management manual shall be adopted by the town as its
records management manual.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 1-6-4 BENEFIT OF RECORDS RETENTION PROGRAM.
   The records retention program will:
   (A)   Release space and reduce the need for storage and filing equipment;
   (B)   Establish an efficient retrieval operation for both active and
inactive municipal records;
   (C)   Provide for routine disposition of paperwork;
   (D)   Maintain security over municipal records;
   (E)   Secure a central records storage facility which can be operated and
maintained by records management staff; and
   (F)   Ensure that the town stays in compliance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 1-6-5 MUNICIPAL RETENTION SCHEDULES.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office will devise a records retention schedule
for each participating department or division. All retention schedules shall
meet the minimum requirements of the January 2019, “Guidelines for Wyoming
State Agency Records Officers,” as amended, adopted by the State Archives,
Museums, and Historical Department, archives records management division.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 1-6-6 TRANSFER OF RECORDS TO RECORDS RETENTION CENTER.
   All departments affected by this chapter are required to work directly with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office on records retention. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall be advised of all requests for indexing, locating, microfilming, and
disposing of records through utilization of records retention center forms
provided by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. All records requested to be turned
over to the state archives office will be submitted through the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office. Disposition of records submitted to the records retention
center will be achieved through the Clerk-Treasurer’s office only after review
and written approval of respective department heads.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
CHAPTER 7: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
1-7-1   Municipal Court created
   
1-7-2   Municipal Judge and alternate
   
1-7-3   Clerk of Court
§ 1-7-1 MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED.
   Pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 5-6-101, as amended, there is created and
established in the town a Municipal Court for the trial of all offenses arising
under this code and the ordinances of the town, including administrative
hearings.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 1-7-2 MUNICIPAL JUDGE AND ALTERNATE.
   (A)   Judges of Court. The judges of the Municipal Court shall be styled
Municipal Judges.
   (B)   Number of judges. The town shall have one Municipal Judge and one
Alternate Municipal Judge.
   (C)   Appointment. The Municipal Judge and alternate shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the consent of the Council.
   (D)   Qualifications and salary.
      (1)   The Municipal Judge and Alternate Municipal Judge shall be
qualified electors of the state and high school graduates or the equivalent
thereof.
      (2)   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary as determined annually
by the Council. The Alternate Municipal Judge shall be paid as determined by
the Council.
   (E)   Term of office. The term of the office of the Municipal Judge and
Alternate Municipal Judge shall be the same as that of other appointed officers
of the town, unless previously removed for cause as provided by law.
   (F)   Bond of office. As required by Wyo. Stat. § 38-2-101, the Municipal
Judge and Alternate Municipal Judge shall give a bond to the town in a
sufficient amount conditioned for the performance of all his or her duties in
accordance with law and the ordinances of the town, and that he or she will
turn over to the parties entitled thereto, or as may be prescribed by the
ordinances of the town, all monies collected by virtue of his or her office of
Municipal Judge.
   (G)   Preparation of bond schedule.
      (1)   The Municipal Judge shall have authority to prepare a bond schedule
for any and all violations of this code. The Municipal Judge shall also have
authority to amend the bond schedule from time to time. The bond schedule
prepared by the Municipal Judge, as well as any amendments to the bond
schedule, shall be subject to the review and approval of the governing body of
the town.
      (2)   Copies of the current bond schedule shall be maintained at all
times in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 1-7-3 CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   Creation; appointment. There is created and established in the town
the position of Clerk of Municipal Court, a part time position, and the duties
of the Clerk of Municipal Court shall be performed by the Municipal Court
Clerk, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent of the Council.
Said appointment shall be for a term of two years and shall be made in
accordance with §
1-5-1(B) and (C).
   (B)   Duties. The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall exercise the powers
conferred and perform the duties enjoined upon him or her by statute and the
common law. In the performance of his or her duties, he or she shall be under
the direction of the Municipal Court.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Clerk of the Court shall be a qualified elector of
the state and a high school graduate or equivalent thereof.
   (D)   Bond of office. As required by Wyo. Stat. § 38-2-101, the Clerk of
Municipal Court shall give a bond to the town in a sufficient amount
conditioned for the performance of all his or her duties in accordance with law
and the ordinances of the town, and he or she will turn over to the parties
entitled thereto, or as may be prescribed by the ordinances of the town, all
monies collected by virtue of his or her office of Clerk of Municipal Court.
   (E)   Duty to preserve papers. The Clerk shall file together and carefully
preserve in his or her office all papers delivered to him or her for that
purpose in every action or proceeding. He or she shall not permit papers to be
taken from his or her office, except to be used at a session of court or upon
legal process, and he or she shall be liable upon his or her official bond to
the party suffering injury on account of any violation.
   (F)   Endorsement of papers. The Clerk shall endorse upon every paper filed
with him or her the date of the filing thereof and upon every undertaking given
under the same, the date of its return to his or her office.
   (G)   Recordkeeping. The Clerk of Municipal Court shall keep the journals,
records, books, and papers pertaining to the court and record its proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3) (Ord. 340, passed 9-18-2003; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1: TREE ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
2-1-1   Membership; compensation
   
2-1-2   Appointment and terms of members
   
2-1-3   Officers of Board
   
2-1-4   Meetings
   
2-1-5   Removal of members; filling vacancies
   
2-1-6   Duties
§ 2-1-1 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   There is created a Tree Advisory Board, which shall consist of a minimum of
three persons and a maximum number of nine persons, or such other number of
members as the Town Council shall determine by resolution, who shall serve
without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 2-1-2 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Tree Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Town
Council for a term of three years. Members may serve successive terms upon
reappointment by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 2-1-3 OFFICERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. Within 30 days after the initial and
each appointment, the Tree Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice
Chairperson.
   (B)   Secretary.
      (1)   The Parks Director, or any other person designated by the Tree
Advisory Board, shall serve as Secretary of the Board, and shall serve the
Board in an advisory capacity.
      (2)   The Secretary shall record minutes of meetings and shall circulate
the minutes to the Tree Advisory Board and Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 2-1-4 MEETINGS.
   The Tree Advisory Board shall meet at least six times each year upon the
call of the Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson, and shall meet at a time and
place to be designated by the person calling the meeting. The Board may
establish a regular meeting time and place.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 2-1-5 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Removal by Council. The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any
member of the Tree Advisory Board whenever it appears that removal would be in
the best interests of the town, as determined by the Town Council, and shall
fill the vacancy created by the resignation, death, or removal of any member
for the unexpired portion of the member’s term.
   (B)   Recommendations of Board. The Board may make recommendations to the
Town Council for removal of members.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 2-1-6 DUTIES.
   The Tree Advisory Board shall have the following duties.
   (A)   Education. The Board shall promote public education on tree planting
and proper management of trees within the community.
   (B)   Tree care standards; acceptable trees. The Board shall study,
investigate, counsel, and develop written standards, rules, and regulations for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition
of trees in parks, along street rights-of-way, and in other public areas. These
standards shall include a list of acceptable trees to be planted in the town.
The Board shall develop and maintain a list of acceptable trees for planting as
street trees with suggested spacing and planting distances from curbs,
sidewalks, and foundations. Any trees not included on the list of acceptable
trees shall be unacceptable for planting within the town. The list of
acceptable trees shall be updated periodically as the Board sees fit. Such
standards will be presented to the Town Council and, upon their acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official tree plan for the town.
   (C)   Special parks trees, other open spaces. When requested by the Town
Council, the Board shall consider, investigate, make findings, report, and
recommend upon any special parks trees, street trees, and other public open
space matter or question regarding trees coming within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
CHAPTER 2: RECREATIONAL CENTER ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
2-2-1   Membership; compensation
   
2-2-2   Appointment and terms of members
   
2-2-3   Officers of Board
   
2-2-4   Meetings
   
2-2-5   Removal of members; filling vacancies
   
2-2-6   Duties
§ 2-2-1 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   There is created a Recreation Center Advisory Board, which shall consist of
a minimum of three persons and a maximum number of five persons, or such other
number of members as the Town Council shall determine by resolution, who shall
serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 391, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 2-2-2 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Recreation Center Advisory Board shall be appointed by
the Town Council for a term of three years. Members may serve successive terms
upon reappointment by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 391, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 2-2-3 OFFICERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. Within 30 days after the initial and
each appointment, the Recreation Center Advisory Board shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
   (B)   Secretary.
      (1)   The Community Events Director, or any other person designated by
the Recreation Center Advisory Board, shall serve as Secretary of the Board,
and shall serve the Board in an advisory capacity.
      (2)   The Secretary shall record minutes of meetings and shall circulate
the minutes to the Recreation Center Advisory Board and Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 391, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 2-2-4 MEETINGS.
   The Recreation Center Advisory Board shall meet at least six times each year
upon the call of the Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson, and shall meet at a
time and place to be designated by the person calling the meeting. The Board
may establish a regular meeting time and place.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 391, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 2-2-5 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Removal by Council. The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any
member of the Recreation Center Advisory Board whenever it appears that removal
would be in the best interests of the town, as determined by the Town Council,
and shall fill the vacancy created by the resignation, death, or removal of any
member for the unexpired portion of the member’s term.
   (B)   Recommendations of Board. The Board may make recommendations to the
Town Council for removal of members.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 391, passed 8-15-2019)
§ 2-2-6 DUTIES.
   The Recreation Center Advisory Board shall have the following duties.
   (A)   Activities. The Recreation Center Advisory Board shall provide advice
to the Community Events Director as to activities which will best suit the
interests of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Reports and recommendations. When requested by the Town Council, the
Board shall consider, investigate, make findings, report, and recommend upon
any recreation center question or matter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 391, passed 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
CHAPTER 3: MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
2-3-1   Membership; compensation
   
2-3-2   Appointment and terms of members
   
2-3-3   Officers of Board
   
2-3-4   Meetings
   
2-3-5   Removal of members; filling vacancies
   
2-3-6   Duties
§ 2-3-1 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   There is created a Museum Advisory Board, which shall consist of a minimum
of three persons and a maximum number of five persons, or such other number of
members as the Town Council shall determine by resolution, who shall serve
without compensation.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-7-2022)
§ 2-3-2 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Museum Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Town
Council for a term of three years. Members may serve successive terms upon
reappointment by the Town Council.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-7-2022)
§ 2-3-3 OFFICERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. Within 30 days after the initial and
each appointment, the Museum Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson.
   (B)   Secretary.
      (1)   The Museum Advisory Board shall designate any member of the Board
to serve as Secretary of the Board, and the Community Events Director shall
serve the Board in an advisory capacity.
      (2)   The Secretary shall record minutes of meetings and shall circulate
the minutes to the Museum Advisory Board, Community Events Director, and Town
Council.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-7-2022)
§ 2-3-4 MEETINGS.
   The Museum Advisory Board shall meet at least six times each year upon the
call of the Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson and shall meet at a time and
place to be designated by the person calling the meeting. The Board may
establish a regular meeting time and place.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-7-2022)
§ 2-3-5 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Removal by Council. The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any
member of the Museum Advisory Board whenever it appears that removal would be
in the best interests of the town, as determined by the Town Council, and shall
fill the vacancy created by the resignation, death, or removal of any member
for the unexpired portion of the member’s term.
   (B)   Recommendations of Board. The Board may make recommendations to the
Town Council for removal of members.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-7-2022)
§ 2-3-6 DUTIES.
   The Museum Advisory Board shall have the following duties.
   (A)   Activities. The Museum Advisory Board shall provide advice to the
Community Events Director as to activities which will best suit the interests
of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Reports and recommendations. When requested by the Town Council, the
Board shall consider, investigate, make findings, report, and recommend upon
any museum question or matter.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-7-2022)
TITLE 3: RESERVED
TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
4-1-1   Definitions
   
4-2-2   Compliance required
License Application
   
4-1A-1   Application for annual license
   
4-1A-2   Grounds for denial of annual license
   
4-1A-3   Renewal of annual license
   
4-1A-4   Transfer of annual license
   
4-1A-5   Term of annual license
   
4-1A-6   Application for temporary license
   
4-1A-7   Denial of temporary license
Annual Licenses
   
4-1B-1   Retail liquor license
   
4-1B-2   Limited retail liquor (special club) license
   
4-1B-3   Restaurant liquor license
   
4-1B-4   Microbrewery liquor license
   
4-1B-5   Motel/hotel minibar license
   
4-1B-6   Fees for annual licenses
Temporary Licenses
   
4-1C-1   Malt beverage permit
   
4-1C-2   Catering permit
   
4-1C-3   RESERVED
   
4-1C-4   Extended club hours permit
   
4-1C-5   Street closure permit
   
4-1C-6   Temporary permit fees
Requirements and Restrictions
   
4-1D-1   Hours and dates of sales
   
4-1D-2   RESERVED
   
4-1D-3   Drive-in facilities
   
4-1D-4   Inspection of licensed premises
   
4-1D-5   Display of license
   
4-1D-6   Prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirituous or fermented fluid, substance, or compound,
other than malt beverages, intended for beverage purposes which contains at
least 0.5% of alcohol by volume. As used in this definition, BEVERAGE does not
include liquid-filled candies containing less than 6.25% of alcohol by volume.
   ANNUAL LICENSES. Those liquor licenses issued by the town which are valid
for a period of one year and are renewable annually and shall include retail
liquor licenses, limited retail (club) licenses, and restaurant liquor
licenses.
   BREWERY. A commercial enterprise at a single location producing malt
beverage in quantities more than 50,000 barrels per year.
   BUILDING. A roofed and walled structure built or set in place for permanent
use and any immediately adjacent fenced or enclosed area as approved by the
licensing authority.
   CLUB. Any of the following organizations:
      (1)   A post, charter, camp, or other local unit composed only of
veterans and its duly organized auxiliary, chartered by the Congress of the
United States for patriotic, fraternal, or benevolent purposes and, as the
owner, lessee, or occupant, operates an establishment for these purposes within
the state;
      (2)   A chapter, lodge, or other local unit of an American national
fraternal organization, and, as the owner, lessee, or occupant, operates an
establishment for fraternal purposes within the state. As used in this division
(2), an AMERICAN FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION means an organization actively
operating in not less than 36 states or having been in active continuous
existence for not less than 20 years, but does not mean a college fraternity;
      (3)   A hall or building association of a local unit specified in
divisions (1) and (2) above, of which all of the capital stock is owned by the
local unit, or its members, operating clubroom facilities for the local unit;
      (4)   A social CLUB with more than 100 bona fide members who are
residents of the county in which it is located, owning, maintaining, or
operating CLUB quarters, incorporated and operating solely as a nonprofit
corporation under the laws of this state and qualified as a tax exempt
organization under the Internal Revenue Service Code and having been
continuously operating for a period of not less than one year. The CLUB shall
have had, during this one-year period, a bona fide membership paying dues of at
least $25 per year as recorded by the secretary of the CLUB, quarterly
meetings, and an actively engaged membership carrying out the objects of the
CLUB. A social CLUB shall, upon applying for a license, file with the licensing
authority and the State Liquor Division, a true copy of its bylaws, and shall
further, upon applying for a renewal of its license, file with the licensing
authority and the State Liquor Division a detailed statement of its activities
during the preceding year which were undertaken and further in pursuit of the
objects of the CLUB, together with an itemized statement of amounts expended
for such activities. CLUB members, at the time of application for a limited
retail liquor license pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 2-4-301 and the applicable
section of this code, shall be in good standing by having paid at least one
full year in dues; and
      (5)   CLUB does not mean college fraternities or labor unions.
   INDUSTRY REPRESENTATIVE. All wholesalers, manufacturers, rectifiers,
distillers, and breweries dealing in alcoholic liquor or malt beverage, and
proscriptions upon their conduct shall include conduct by any subsidiary,
affiliate, officer, director, employee, agent, broker, or any firm member of
such entity.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR, ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE, AND SPIRITUOUS
LIQUOR. These terms are construed as synonymous in meaning and definition.
   LICENSEE. A person holding a:
      (1)   Retail liquor license;
      (2)   Limited retail liquor license;
      (3)   Resort liquor license;
      (4)   County retail malt beverage permit;
      (5)   Malt beverage permit;
      (6)   Restaurant liquor license;
      (7)   Catering permit; or
      (8)   Bar and grill liquor license.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Any fluid, substance, or compound intended for beverage
purposes manufactured from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute
therefor, containing at least 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   MICROBREWERY. A commercial enterprise at a single location producing malt
beverage in quantities not to exceed 50,000 barrels per year and no less than
100 barrels per year.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any receptacle or container used or labeled by the
manufacturer of the substance containing any alcoholic liquors or malt
beverages.
   PERMIT. A temporary liquor license issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
   PERMITTEE. A person holding one or more of the following temporary licenses
or permits:
      (1)   Malt beverage permit;
      (2)   Extended hours permit; or
      (3)   Catering permit.
   PERSON. Includes an individual person, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, or any other association or entity, public or private.
   RESIDENT. A domiciled resident and citizen of the state for a period of not
less than one year who has not claimed residency elsewhere for any purpose
within a one-year period immediately preceding the date of application for any
license authorized in this chapter.
   RESTAURANT. Space in a building maintained, advertised, and held out to the
public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for on premises consumption and where the primary source of revenue
from the operation is from the sale of food and not from the sale of alcoholic
or malt beverages. The building shall have a dining room or rooms, a kitchen
and the number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing, cooking, and
serving of meals in order to satisfy the licensing authority that the space is
intended for use as a full service restaurant. FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT means a
restaurant at which waiters or waitresses deliver food and drink offered from a
printed food menu to patrons at tables or booths. The service of only fry
orders or such food and victuals as sandwiches, hamburgers, or salads shall not
be deemed a RESTAURANT for purposes of this chapter.
   ROOM. An enclosed and partitioned space within a building large enough for a
person to enter but not a cabinet. Partitions may contain windows and doorways,
but any partition shall extend from floor to ceiling.
   SELL or SALE. Includes offering for sale, trafficking in, bartering,
delivering, or dispensing and pouring for value, exchanging for goods,
services, or patronage or an exchange in any way other than purely
gratuitously. Every delivery of an alcoholic liquor or malt beverage made
otherwise than by gift constitutes a SALE.
   STATE LIQUOR DIVISION. The Wyoming Liquor Division within the Department of
Revenue.
   TEMPORARY LICENSES. Those liquor permits or licenses which are issued by the
town for specific times, not to exceed a 24-hour period for each time and shall
include malt beverage permits, extended club hours, and catering permits.
   WHOLESALER. Any person, except the State Liquor Division, who sells any
alcoholic or malt beverage to a retailer for resale.
   WINERY. A commercial enterprise manufacturing wine at a single location in
the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017)
§ 4-1-2 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   For the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the residents and
citizens of the town, it is hereby declared to be in the best interest of the
town and the residents and citizens thereof, that the sale, distribution,
possession, and traffic of alcoholic liquor and malt beverage shall be
regulated to the extent that all such activity be, and the same hereby is,
prohibited, except as provided in this chapter, and that no sale at retail or
possession of such substances shall occur within the jurisdictional limits of
the town except as authorized in this chapter, adopted under the authority of
Wyo. Stat. §§ 16-3-101 et seq., Wyo. Stat. §§ 12-4-101(a), 12-4-201(e), 12-4-
201(h), 12-4-301(a), 12-4-405, 12-4-407(a), 12-4-410, 12-4-411, 12-4-412(b)
(viii), 12-4-413(d), 12-4-502(e), 12-4-504(a), 12-4-601(a) and (b), 12-5-101
(d), 12-5-201(a) and (e), and 12-5-201(k).
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017)
LICENSE APPLICATION
§ 4-1A-1 APPLICATION FOR ANNUAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Filing of application. Any person desiring an annual license as
authorized by this chapter shall make application to the town by delivering to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, on the form prepared by the State Attorney General
and provided to the applicant at no charge by the Clerk-Treasurer, a completed,
verified and signed form, in duplicate. Renewal of an annual license,
application for transfer of ownership, and transfer of location shall be made
upon the same form and in the same manner.
   (B)   Notice of application; form. Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for an annual license, or renewal thereof, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall promptly prepare a notice of application, place a copy of the notice at a
conspicuous place at the location shown in the application and publish the
notice in a newspaper of local circulation once a week for four consecutive
weeks. The notice shall state that a named applicant has applied for a license,
renewal, or transfer thereof, and that protests against the issuance, renewal,
or transfer of the license will be heard at a designated meeting of the town.
Notices will meet the requirements of this section if they are in substantially
the following form:
 
NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR A ______________
 
Notice is hereby given that on the___day of 20__, (Name of applicant) filed an
application for a ___________ license in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Town of Sinclair for the following described place (and room): (Insert
description) Protests, if any there be, against the (issuance, transfer, or
renewal) of the license will be heard at the hour of ______ .m., on the ______
day of __________, 20____ in the (designated meeting place).
 
Dated __________ Signed ______________
Town Clerk-Treasurer
 
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-1)
§ 4-1A-2 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF ANNUAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Any annual license authorized under this chapter shall not be issued,
renewed, or transferred until on or after the date is set in the notice for
hearing protests.
   (B)   If a renewal or transfer hearing, the hearing shall be held not later
than 30 days preceding the expiration date of the annual license.
   (C)   An annual license shall not be issued, renewed, or transferred if the
town finds from evidence presented at the hearing:
      (1)   The welfare of the people residing in the vicinity of the proposed
annual licensed premises shall be adversely and seriously affected;
      (2)   The purpose of this chapter will not be carried out by the
issuance, renewal, or transfer of the annual license;
      (3)   The number, type, and location of existing annual licenses meet the
needs of the vicinity under consideration;
      (4)   The desires of the residents of the town will not be met and
satisfied by the issuance, renewal, or transfer of the annual license; or
      (5)   Any other reasonable restrictions or standards which may be imposed
by the town shall not be carried out by the issuance, renewal, or transfer of
the annual license.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-2)
§ 4-1A-3 RENEWAL OF ANNUAL LICENSE.
   The owner or holder of an expired annual license, or one due for expiration,
has a preference right to a new license for the same location. After the
required notice and public hearing, each application claiming renewal
preference shall be promptly considered and acted upon by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-3)
§ 4-1A-4 TRANSFER OF ANNUAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Hearing and Council approval. After public hearing and with the
approval of the Council, an annual license may be transferred to or renewed on
different premises on the same basis as the original application, except that
no additional annual license fee is required during the term of the annual
license. A transferred annual license shall expire on the same date as the
original annual license.
   (B)   Transfer of license by licensee. 
      (1)   The owner of an annual license, or the executor or administrator of
the estate of a deceased annual licensee, may, if proceedings are not pending
to suspend, revoke, or otherwise penalize the original annual license holder,
assign and transfer the annual license by a sale or transfer made in good
faith.
      (2)   A transfer of the annual license shall not require the payment of
an additional license fee and upon assignment, following proper application by
the proposed licensee and approval of the transfer by the Council, the assignee
may exercise the privilege of continuing the business authorized by the annual
license.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-4)
§ 4-1A-5 TERM OF ANNUAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Expiration date. Annual licenses shall be valid for a period of not
more than one year, and shall be a personal privilege of the licensee. Annual
licenses shall be renewed prior to the expiration date in accordance with the
schedule established by the Clerk-Treasurer and sent to the licensees.
   (B)   Deceased licensees. The executor or administrator of the estate of
deceased licensee, when the estate consists in whole or in part of a business
of selling alcoholic or malt beverages under annual license may exercise the
privilege of the deceased licensee under the license until the date of
expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-5)
§ 4-1A-6 APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   (A)   Filing of application; issuance.
      (1)   Application for any temporary license issued under this chapter
shall be made on the form for such provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, which shall
contain directions to the prospective licensee to complete the application and
return such to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall then notify the Police Department of the
issuance of the license. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the requested license
in those cases authorized by this chapter, or where reason for denial is
determined by the Clerk-Treasurer, deny the issuance of the license.
      (3)   In those instances where consent of the Council is required, or
where the Clerk-Treasurer has refused to issue the requested license and the
applicant has requested an appearance before the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall request that the application be placed upon the agenda for Council
determination.
   (B)   Additional duties of Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receipt of a completed
application containing approval of such from the various town departments which
have been designated as potentially affected by the issuance of the requested
license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall perform one of the following acts.
      (1)   In the event that the applicant has not requested a street closure,
and has requested one or more temporary licenses, none of which require Council
action pursuant to this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the requested
license, together with a set of instructions and restrictions on the use of the
license.
      (2)   In the event that the applicant has requested a street closure, or
if the applicant has requested some other temporary license which requires
Council approval before such is issued, or if the Clerk-Treasurer has refused
to issue a requested temporary license and the applicant has requested in
writing that the application be reviewed by the Council, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall take the application and request that such be placed upon the Council
agenda for future action.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-6)
§ 4-1A-7 DENIAL OF TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   A temporary license shall be denied by the Clerk-Treasurer and referred to
the Council for action if one or more of the following facts or circumstances
are found to exist.
   (A)   The application is for a location within the town that is not located
in a park or other location that has been designated for the use of malt
beverages.
   (B)   The application is for use of an outside location in or near a
residential area and is requesting a use later than 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   The circumstances given to the Clerk-Treasurer are such as to indicate
a significant problem for the residents in the area, or an adjacent area, which
problems may include traffic, noise, light, odor, or other significant
annoyances.
   (D)   The town has received complaints about previous licenses for
substantially the same circumstances as are present in the current application.
(Prior Code, § 4-1A-7)
ANNUAL LICENSES
§ 4-1B-1 RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Authority. A retail liquor license is the authority under which a
licensee is permitted to sell alcoholic and malt beverages for use or
consumption, but not for resale.
   (B)   Restrictions on minors. 
      (1)   Except as provided otherwise by law, no licensee or agent,
employee, or server thereof shall permit any person under the age of 21 years
of age to enter or remain in the licensed building where alcoholic or malt
beverages are being dispensed in an establishment that is primarily intended
for on premises consumption of alcoholic and/or malt beverages unless:
         (a)   The establishment operates a restaurant with a commercial
kitchen where the primary source of revenue from the operation is from the sale
of food and not from the sale of alcoholic or malt beverages;
         (b)   The establishment, other than a restaurant, operates a
commercial kitchen in which case persons under the age of 21 years of age may
enter and remain in a dining room or waiting area when accompanied by a parent,
spouse, or legal guardian over the age of 21 years of age in the licensed
building but not later than 10:00 p.m. or one hour after the kitchen closes,
whichever is earlier; or
         (c)   The establishment is specifically approved by the Town Council
to allow minors.
      (2)   Establishments specifically approved by these rules include bowling
alleys, hotels, theaters, civic/event centers, family entertainment centers;
however, such establishments shall have a separate designated service area.
      (3)   Establishments that operate primarily for off premises sales;
including but not limited to retail liquor stores, grocery stores, and
convenience stores; shall maintain a separate area for the sale of alcoholic or
malt beverages and the licensee shall not allow individuals under 21 years of
age to enter or remain in the area without being accompanied by a parent,
spouse, or legal guardian 21 years of age or older.
      (4)   Limited retail licenses for bona fide clubs and malt beverage and
catering permittees are exempt from the age restrictions in this section.
   (C)   License transfer. After public hearing and with the approval of the
Town Council, a license or permit may be transferred to or renewed on different
premises on the same basis as the original application. An additional license
fee of not more than $100 is required for the remaining term of the license or
permit. A transferred license or permit shall expire on the same date as the
original license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-1B-1) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017)
§ 4-1B-2 LIMITED RETAIL LIQUOR (SPECIAL CLUB) LICENSE.
   (A)   Authority. A limited retail liquor license, also referred to as a
special club license, is the authority under which bona fide clubs are
permitted to sell alcoholic and malt beverages for consumption.
   (B)   Petition. The initial application for a limited retail license by a
social club shall include a petition signed by not less than 51% of the current
membership indicating a desire to secure a limited retail liquor license. The
form of the petition shall be prescribed by the State Liquor Division under the
Department of Revenue, and shall include the residence address of each member
signing the petition.
   (C)   Restrictions. A club holding a limited retail liquor license shall not
sell alcoholic or malt beverages for consumption anywhere except within the
licensed premises and for consumption by its members and their accompanied
guests only. It shall be the duty and obligation of the club to check and
regulate sale to members and their accompanied guests to ensure that all
alcoholic or malt beverages sold are consumed within the building, space, or
premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-1B-2)
§ 4-1B-3 RESTAURANT LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Authority. A restaurant liquor license is the authority under which
the sale for consumption of alcoholic and malt beverages is permitted for a
RESTAURANT, as defined in §
4-1-1.
   (B)   Initial application. An initial applicant for a restaurant liquor
license shall provide a statement, to the best of the applicant’s knowledge,
that the primary source of revenue from the operation of the restaurant will be
derived from the sale of food and not from the sale of alcoholic and malt
beverages.
   (C)   License renewal. An applicant for the renewal of a restaurant liquor
license shall provide as part of the application a statement that not less than
60% of the gross sales in the preceding 12 months’ operation of the licensed
restaurant was derived from the sale of food services. Accompanying the
application for renewal shall be a report of the annual gross sales from the
preceding 12 months’ operation of the restaurant, separately reporting the
gross sales figures of food service sales and alcoholic and malt beverage
sales.
   (D)   License transfer. No restaurant liquor license shall be transferred to
a different location. License ownership may be transferred to a purchaser or
lessee of the licensed premises with the approval of the Council.
   (E)   Restrictions. Restaurant liquor licenses do not permit the sale of
alcoholic or malt beverages off the licensed premises. Alcoholic and malt
beverages shall be served for on premises consumption only and served only in
dining areas which are adequately staffed and equipped for all food services
offered by the restaurant. A restaurant liquor licensee may permit a patron to
remove one unsealed bottle of wine for off-premises consumption; provided, that
the patron has purchased a full course meal and consumed a portion of the
bottle of wine with the meal on the restaurant premises. For purposes of this
division (E), the term FULL COURSE MEAL shall mean a diversified selection of
food which is ordinarily consumed with the use of tableware and cannot
conveniently be consumed while standing or walking. A partially consumed bottle
of wine that is to be removed from the premises pursuant to this division (E)
shall be securely sealed by the licensee or an agent of the licensee and placed
in a tamper-proof transparent bag which shall also be securely sealed prior to
removal from the premises, so that it is visibly apparent that the resealed
bottle of wine has not been tampered with. The licensee or agent of the
licensee shall provide a dated receipt for the bottle of wine to the patron.
Wine which is resealed in accordance with the provisions of this division (E)
shall not be deemed an open container for purposes of Wyo. Stat. § 31-5-235.
   (F)   Service area minors restricted. Alcoholic and malt beverages shall be
dispensed and prepared for consumption in one room upon the licensed premises
separated from the dining area in which alcoholic and malt beverages may be
served. No consumption of alcoholic or malt beverages shall be permitted within
the dispensing room, nor shall any person other than employees over the age of
18 years be permitted to enter the dispensing room.
   (G)   Food sales required. All sales of alcoholic and malt beverages
authorized by a restaurant liquor license shall cease at the time food sales
and services cease or at the time specified in this chapter if food sales and
service extends beyond that time.
   (H)   Limited activities. No restaurant licensee shall promote the
restaurant as a bar and lounge, nor shall the licensee compete with a retail
liquor license in activities other than dinner functions, including but not
limited to dances, receptions, and other social gatherings.
(Prior Code, § 4-1B-3) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
§ 4-1B-4 MICROBREWERY LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Authority. A microbrewery license is the authority under which a
licensee is permitted to brew a malt beverage.
   (B)   Activities allowed. In addition to the authority granted under
division (A) above, a microbrewery may do one or more of the following:
      (1)   Sell its own products for on-premises consumption;
      (2)   Sell the malt beverages of other breweries or microbreweries when
such are obtained through licensed wholesale malt distributors;
      (3)   Hold, in addition to the microbrewery license, a retail liquor
license, restaurant liquor license, or a resort liquor license, subject to the
terms and conditions for each contained in this chapter; and/or
      (4)   Sell on site only its own product for off-premises personal
consumption, but not for resale, in packaging of bottles, cans, or pack not to
exceed 2,000 ounces per sale.
   (C)   Transfer of license. A microbrewery license shall not be transferred
from its licensed premises. A transfer of ownership to a purchaser or a lessee
of the licensed premises shall be allowed upon approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-1B-4)
§ 4-1B-5 MOTEL/HOTEL MINIBAR LICENSE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a licensee who holds a
retail liquor license or a microbrewery license, and who is engaged in business
operation with motel or hotel room accommodations at the same premises may,
after obtaining a license from the town for such, sell alcoholic liquor and
malt beverages in sealed containers from a minibar located in any sleeping room
of the licensee’s motel or hotel operation occupied by a registered guest 21
years or older. Sales under this section shall be only to registered guests
aged 21 years or more, are not subject to the restriction of hours imposed
elsewhere in this chapter, and shall be only for consumption within the motel
or hotel room premises occupied by the guest. The price imposed for the
alcoholic liquor, malt beverage, and all other items for sale shall be clearly
posted.
(Prior Code, § 4-1B-5)
§ 4-1B-6 FEES FOR ANNUAL LICENSES.
   (A)   Fees enumerated. The following fees shall be paid in advance for the
respective annual licenses and each renewal thereof:
      (1)   Retail liquor license: $1,000;
      (2)   Limited retail liquor (special club) license: $500;
      (3)   Restaurant liquor license: $1,000;
      (4)   Microbrewery/winery license: $500; and
      (5)   Bar and grill liquor license: $1,500;
   (B)   Fees nonrefundable. No refund of all or any part of any license fee
shall be made at any time following the issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-1B-6) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017)
TEMPORARY LICENSES
§ 4-1C-1 MALT BEVERAGE PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority. A malt beverage permit is the authority under which a
licensee is permitted to sell malt beverages only for a period not to exceed 24
hours per permit.
   (B)   Events and sales restricted.
      (1)   A malt beverage permit may be issued to any responsible person or
organization for sales of malt beverages at a picnic, bazaar, fair, rodeo,
special holiday, or similar public gathering.
      (2)   No alcoholic liquors, other than malt beverages, shall be sold on
the premises described in the permit, nor shall any malt beverages be sold
which are to be consumed off the premises.
   (C)   Number of permits allowed. No person or organization shall receive
more than six malt beverage permits in one year, without approval from the Town
Council.
   (D)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation contained elsewhere in this
chapter shall apply to a malt beverage permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-1C-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 4-1C-2 CATERING PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority. A catering permit is the authority by which a retail liquor
licensee is permitted to sell alcoholic liquors and malt beverages off the
licensed premises for sales at meetings, conventions, private parties, and
dinners or at other similar gatherings not capable of being held within the
permittee’s licensed premises.
   (B)   On premises sales. The permittee shall not sell or permit the
consumption of any alcoholic or malt beverages off the premises described in
the permit.
   (C)   Number of permits allowed. No retail liquor licensee shall receive
more than six catering permits in one year.
   (D)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation contained elsewhere in this
chapter shall apply to a catering permit.
(Prior Code, § 4-1C-2)
§ 4-1C-3 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, § 4-1C-3)
Editor’s note:
   This section is repealed by Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2016.
§ 4-1C-4 EXTENDED CLUB HOURS PERMIT.
   Limited retail liquor (special club) licensees may apply to the Council for
an extension of the regular operating hours for the morning hours of Saturday
and Sunday, such extension allowing operation until not later than 4:00 a.m. on
each day for which the extension is granted. Such application for an extension
shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing and signed by an officer of the
club authorized to make such application.
(Prior Code, § 4-1C-4)
§ 4-1C-5 STREET CLOSURE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for permit; issuance.
      (1)   Any responsible person or organization, in conjunction with a
public or private gathering, with or without applying for one or more of the
permits authorized in this chapter, may apply to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing
on the form provided for such for a permit for the temporary closure of an area
to vehicular traffic within the town.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue the permit, except in the instances listed in this section or in §
4-1C-1.
   (B)   Reasons for denial. The Clerk-Treasurer may issue a temporary street
closure permit, except in those cases where one or more of the following facts
are existing.
      (1)   The closure will affect a business area during hours when one or
more of the businesses will be open.
      (2)   The closure will affect residential areas during the hours after
10:00 p.m. with accompanying increased noise from the gathering.
      (3)   The closure will affect a collector street within the town, or the
only convenient access for emergency vehicles to an area.
      (4)   The closure will be in effect for more than six hours.
(Prior Code, § 4-1C-5)
§ 4-1C-6 TEMPORARY PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fees enumerated. Fees shall be set by the Town Council by resolution
and shall be paid in advance by the applicant to the Clerk-Treasurer for the
issuing of the following respective temporary licenses and permits:
      (1)   Malt beverage permit;
      (2)   Catering permit;
      (3)   Street closure permit; and
      (4)   Extended club hours permit.
   (B)   Fees nonrefundable. No refund of all or any part of any license or
permit fee shall be made at any time following issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-1C-6) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Wyo. Stat. § 12-4-502
REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 4-1D-1 HOURS AND DATES OF SALES.
   (A)   Exceptions. All licensees and permittees holding a license or
temporary license or permit under this chapter shall be controlled by the
schedule for hours of operations set forth in division (B) below, with the
exception of the following temporary licenses and permits where such indicate
other hours:
      (1)   Street closure permit issued pursuant to §
4-1C-5; and
      (2)   Extended club hours permit issued pursuant to §
4-1C-4.
   (B)   Hours of operation stipulated. The hours of operations for all
licensees and permittees, subject to the exception in division (A) above, shall
be as follows: a licensee may open the licensed building at 6:00 a.m. and shall
close the licensed building and cease the sale of alcoholic and malt beverages
promptly at 2:00 a.m. the following day and shall clear the licensed building
and any other area in which dispensing alcoholic and malt beverages is
authorized of all persons other than bona fide employees by 2:30 a.m.
   (C)   Modification of hours. The hours of operation designated in division
(B) above may be modified on no more than four days each calendar year by a
resolution or agreement made each year by the town designating those dates
during town or county fairs, rodeos, pageants, special holidays, or similar
public gatherings when all licensees may operate their licensed building and
any other area in which dispensing alcoholic and malt beverages is authorized
for a period of 24 hours, beginning at 6:00 a.m. A request of the licensees for
such dates to be designated shall be brought to the Council not later than the
second Council meeting in January of each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-1D-1) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017)
§ 4-1D-2 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, § 4-1D-2)
Editor’s note:
   Repealed by Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017.
§ 4-1D-3 DRIVE-IN FACILITIES.
   Upon approval of the town in the original application or the renewal
thereof, a drive-in area adjacent or contiguous to the licensed building may be
used by the holder of a retail liquor license for taking orders, making
delivery of, and receiving payment for alcoholic liquor or malt beverages under
the following conditions.
   (A)   The holder of the retail liquor license shall own the area or hold a
written lease for the period of time for which the license was issued.
   (B)   No part of the area used for orders, delivery, and making payment
shall be more than 40 feet distant from the licensed building.
   (C)   The area shall be well lighted and subject to inspection by the town
at any and all times.
   (D)   No walls or screens shall interfere with observing and checking the
part of the area used for orders, delivery, and payment.
   (E)   No order of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages shall be received from,
nor delivery made to, a person under the age of 21 years of age or to an
intoxicated person in the area.
   (F)   No part of a publicly owned sidewalk, highway, street, or alley shall
be used for taking orders or conducting sales.
   (G)   Alcoholic liquor and malt beverages shall be sold and delivered in the
drive-in area only in the original, unopened package, and consumption of
alcoholic liquor or malt beverage in the drive-in area shall not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 4-1D-3) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017)
§ 4-1D-4 INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   The town may inspect any licensed premises including dispensing rooms and
any locations where alcoholic liquors or malt beverages are served, sold,
dispensed, or brewed at any time the town in its sole discretion deems
appropriate to ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the
health and safety requirements imposed upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-1D-4)
§ 4-1D-5 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee or permittee shall display the license or permit issued in a
conspicuous place viewable by the public near the location where the alcoholic
liquors or malt beverage are dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 4-1D-5)
§ 4-1D-6 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Falsification of application. It is unlawful for any person or
organization to knowingly submit any false information or false fact as true,
or to submit a fact or piece of information without knowing such to be true or
false, on an application for any license or permit authorized by this chapter,
and each application being submitted shall be sworn to be true to the best of
the knowledge by the person submitting such application.
   (B)   Possession by underage persons. It is unlawful for any person under
the age of 21 years to buy, sell, drink, consume, possess, or solicit the sale
or purchase of alcoholic liquor or malt beverage in the town. As used in this
section, POSSESSION shall also include alcohol which has been consumed and is
present within the body at the time of determination. The prohibitions against
possession of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages by a person under the age of
21 years specified in this section shall not apply as follows:
      (1)   When the person is making a delivery of alcoholic liquor or malt
beverages pursuant to his or her employment;
      (2)   When the person is serving alcoholic liquor or malt beverages
pursuant to his or her employment in a restaurant which holds a license to
serve alcoholic liquor or malt beverages, if the person is at least 18 years of
age. The term SERVING in this division (B) does not include the mixing or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages; or
      (3)   To a person who is a licensee under this title.
   (C)   Sale to underage persons. It is unlawful for any person to sell, give,
or deliver any alcoholic liquor or malt beverage to any person under the age of
21 years; provided, however, that such prohibition shall not apply as follows:
      (1)   A person under the age of 21 years who is in the physical presence
of his or her parent, spouse, or legal guardian who is 21 years of age or
older;
      (2)   As part of a church’s or religious organization’s religious
services;
      (3)   For medical purposes pursuant to a lawful prescription; or
      (4)   To sales by the division or a wholesaler to a licensee.
   (D)   Use of false proof of age or identity. It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 21 years to make, use, or possess any identification which
falsely indicates the person’s age as greater than 21 years, whether in the
person’s correct name or not or to attempt to obtain any alcoholic liquor or
malt beverage using any false identification.
   (E)   Dispensing room restrictions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to enter or
remain in the dispensing room or brewing area of any premises licensed or
permitted under this chapter to dispense or brew alcoholic liquor or malt
beverages.
      (2)   No licensee, permittee, or agent, employee, or servant of a
licensee or permittee shall permit any person under the age of 21 years to
enter or remain in a dispensing room or brewing area of a licensed premises
owned or operated by them.
      (3)   There shall be an exception to this division (E) for a licensee’s
employee under the age of 21 years to enter a dispensing room or brewing area
in the course of their employment when such room or area is not open for the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages or brewing of malt beverages.
(Prior Code, § 4-1D-6) (Ord. 381, passed 11-16-2017) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
CHAPTER 2: EXHIBITIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
   
4-2-1   Licensed required; insurance
   
4-2-2   Issuance of license; fee
   
4-2-3   Penalty
§ 4-2-1 LICENSED REQUIRED; INSURANCE.
   (A)   License required; exception. No person, company, or corporation shall
be permitted to open any circus or menagerie, or give any exhibition or
entertainment in the open air, or any exhibition or entertainment under tents,
or to exhibit any natural or artificial curiosities, or any panorama or other
show or device of any kind or nature whatsoever where an admission fee is
charged or collected, without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in
this chapter; provided, that no license shall be required for any entertainment
of a literary or musical character, or for any fair, festival, or other
entertainment given for the benefit of any church or for charitable or
educational purposes, or for any concert or theatrical performance given in any
licensed opera house in the town.
   (B)   Insurance required. Any person making application for such license
shall provide proof of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $500,000.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
4-2-3
§ 4-2-2 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   Issuance By Clerk-Treasurer. All licenses granted under the provisions
of this chapter shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall specify
the object, time, and place for which the same shall have been granted.
   (B)   Fee. License shall be issued for any of the purposes and objects
contemplated by this chapter upon payment of license fees for exhibition of any
circus, or any other exhibition or entertainments, included in this chapter, a
license shall be issued upon the payment of such sum as the Mayor may, in his
or her discretion, consider just and proper; provided, that such sum shall not
in any case be less than $5 per day nor more than $50 per day.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
4-2-3
§ 4-2-3 PENALTY.
   Any person, company, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
CHAPTER 3: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
4-3-1   License required; exceptions
   
4-3-2   Application for license; fee
   
4-3-3   Sales restrictions
   
4-3-4   Signs prohibiting; compliance; exception
   
4-3-5   Inspection for compliance
   
4-3-6   Penalty
§ 4-3-1 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, transient merchant, hawker, solicitor, or peddler to vend, sell,
dispose, or offer to vend, sell, dispose, or display any goods, wares,
merchandise, produce, or vegetables on any public walk, street, alley, or at
any residence, or anywhere within the town without first obtaining a license
from the Town Clerk-Treasurer for that purpose and having paid a license fee
therefor, as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to religious, political,
civic, charitable, or nonprofit organizations or individuals, or to businesses
operating from leased or owned premises such as a restaurant, bar, retail
clothing business, parts store, gas station, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 314, passed 2-1-1996) Penalty, see §
4-3-6
§ 4-3-2 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a license to vend, sell, dispose, or display
merchandise, goods, wares, produce, or vegetables shall be made in writing to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The application shall contain the name and address of the
applicant, if an individual; the names of partners and business address, if a
partnership; or the names of the principal officers and principal office
address, if a corporation or limited liability company; and shall include the
location of the place or places where such merchandise, goods, wares, produce,
or vegetables are to be so displayed and/or sold, as well as the time period
the applicant intends to be in town, the time sales will be conducted each day,
and the number of persons selling the product in question.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to deny issuance of a license upon good
cause.
   (B)   License fee; term. The license fee to be charged for such application
shall be in the amount as set by resolution of the Town Council and the current
fee schedule is available at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. No license
shall be valid for more than one calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 314, passed 2-1-1996; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 4-3-3 SALES RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Obstructing streets and sidewalks. No street or alley shall be blocked
by any merchandise offered for sale under this chapter. Reasonable and adequate
passageway for pedestrians shall always be left open, and merchandise shall be
securely and adequately placed so that it will not endanger passersby or fall
or extend into any street or alley.
   (B)   Nuisance or fire hazard prohibited. Such sales shall not be operated
in any manner which would cause a nuisance or create a fire hazard.
   (C)   Hours. Such house to house sales shall further be conducted between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., and the licensee shall specify on his or
her license the time when such sales shall be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 314, passed 2-1-1996)
§ 4-3-4 SIGNS PROHIBITING; COMPLIANCE; EXCEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, transient merchant,
hawker, solicitor, or peddler to ring the doorbell or knock on the door of any
residence, dwelling, flat, or apartment whereon a sign bearing the words “No
Peddlers” or other words of similar import is painted, affixed, or exposed to
public view, or to attempt to gain admittance thereto; provided, that this
section shall not apply to any person, firm, corporation, transient merchant,
hawker, solicitor, or peddler who knocks at any door or rings any bell at the
invitation or with the prior consent of some member of the household at which
he or she so applied for admission.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 314, passed 2-1-1996)
§ 4-3-5 INSPECTION FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Police Chief of the town, any duly authorized police officer, the
Chief of the Fire Department, any Assistant Fire Chief, or their designated
representatives may make or cause to be made sufficient inspections to ensure
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other applicable provisions of
the town ordinances by the personnel conducting such sales.
   (B)   Failure to abide by this chapter or any other local, state, or federal
law shall be a basis for denial and/or immediate revocation of such license by
the Mayor or the Police Chief of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) (Ord. 314, passed 2-1-1996)
§ 4-3-6 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punishable pursuant to the general
penalty provisions, §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 314, passed 2-1-1996)
CHAPTER 4: BUILDING CONTRACTORS
Section
   
4-4-1   Definitions
   
4-4-2   License required; fee; term
   
4-4-3   Application for license; issuance
   
4-4-4   Plumber qualification
   
4-4-5   Compliance with construction regulations
   
4-4-6   Nonliability of town
   
4-4-7   Revocation of license
   
4-4-8   Penalty
§ 4-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Anyone engaged in the business of cement or concrete
contracting, either flat, form or wall work, or as a masonry contractor; or as
a carpenter contractor; or as a general building contractor; and any person
engaged in the construction, alteration, or repair of buildings or other
structures or sidewalks or street pavements; or plumbing or painting. This
definition does not apply to a person doing work within one’s own home or upon
one’s own property.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All homes designed for occupancy by people, whether
presently occupied or not, and all accessory structures and real property
associated with such homes.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 4-4-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TERM.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any contractor to do any
work or agree to do any work described in §
4-4-1 on or in any residential property without first obtaining from the town a
valid contractor’s license, hereinafter referred to as “license” to do such
work, and to pay the required license fees required by this chapter. A license
will be issued to any qualified contractor who makes proper application and
pays the required fee.
   (B)   Payment of fee.
      (1)   The town may require such license fee to be paid by cash, and in
the event such fee is paid by check and said check is not paid by the bank on
which it is drawn, or said check is returned to the town for the reason that
the payor does not have an account with the bank, the license shall be
considered void and the contractor shall be subject to the penalty provided in
this chapter the same as if he or she had never made application for a license
and the license was never issued.
      (2)   Each contractor shall pay a fee in the amount as set by resolution
of the Town Council and the current fee schedule is available at the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Licensing exception; subcontractors. Except as provided in §§
4-4-3 and
4-4-4, any person having a general building contractor’s license shall not be
required to secure an additional license for the performance of work described
in §
4-4-1. Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be construed as
engaged in the business of building contractor for which a license is required
by this chapter.
   (D)   Term of license. Every license shall expire and be null and void one
year from the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2) (Ord. 320, passed 6-17-1999; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
4-4-8
§ 4-4-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Contents of application. Application for license shall be made in
writing to the town office and shall state:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Business address;
      (3)   Residence address;
      (4)   Social Security number or IRS identification number;
      (5)   Type of work to be performed under the license;
      (6)   How long engaged in such work and whether full-time or part-time;
      (7)   Business and residence telephone numbers;
      (8)   Describe other licenses issued to the contractor by any other
political subdivision or state within the past two years; and
      (9)   Detailed description of all liens, lawsuits, and causes of action
which have been filed against the contractor or any property upon which the
contractor performed any work within the past two years.
   (B)   Issuance; restrictions. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may issue the
license, provided all of the information in division (A) above is provided, the
contractor has been in business two years, and provided no liens or lawsuits
have been filed against the contractor or any property on which the contractor
performed any work within the past two years.
   (C)   Referring to Council for approval; security or bond.
      (1)   If any lien or lawsuit has been filed as stated in this section, or
the contractor has not been in business two years, then the application shall
be referred to the governing body of the town for approval before such license
is issued and before approval.
      (2)   The governing body may require such security or bond as it deems
necessary before issuing such license.
   (D)   Verify authority of applicant. The application for a contractor’s
license shall be made by the applicant or officer or agent of the applicant,
who shall verify by written document that he or she has authority to make the
application.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
§ 4-4-4 PLUMBER QUALIFICATION.
   No person shall be issued a license to do plumbing work in the town unless
he or she shall have first been fully accredited to receive a plumber’s license
from the City of Rawlins, so long as the City of Rawlins has such licenses.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
§ 4-4-5 COMPLIANCE WITH CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of all building constructors to comply with all
ordinances relating to the construction and repair of buildings or other
structures, to the construction of streets or sidewalk pavements, and all laws
or ordinances pertaining to or regulating the activities in which engaged.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5) Penalty, see §
4-4-8
§ 4-4-6 NONLIABILITY OF TOWN.
   The town shall not be held liable for any work which shall be performed by a
contractor or vendor performing work.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-6)
§ 4-4-7 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any building contractor license may be revoked by the town for repeated
violations of any ordinance relating to the construction, alteration, or repair
of buildings, or any aspect of construction work as outlined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-7)
§ 4-4-8 PENALTY.
   Any person, contractor, firm, or corporation which violates any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
1-4-1. Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-8)
CHAPTER 5: GARBAGE COLLECTORS
Section
   
4-5-1   Definitions
   
4-5-2   Permit required
   
4-5-3   Application for permit; fee; conditions for issuance
   
4-5-4   Council approval for permit issuance
   
4-5-5   Rates and charges subject to Council approval
   
4-5-6   Operation with expired or terminated permit
   
4-5-7   Rules and regulations adopted by Council
   
4-5-8   Service adequate for town requirements
   
4-5-9   Termination of permit
   
4-5-10   Covered tank or truck for hauling
   
4-5-11   Penalty
§ 4-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any and all kitchen refuse, rejected or waste foods, meats, fish,
fowl, offal, carrion, swill, slop, or other refuse, accumulation of fruit,
vegetable, or animal matter that attends the preparation, cooking of, or
dealing in or storing of meats, fish, fowl, fruits, or vegetables, or anything
whatsoever which will or may decompose and become foul, offensive, unsanitary,
or dangerous to health.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Any and all rubbish, debris, ashes, cinders, tin cans,
broken glass and earthenware, sweepings, papers, and other waste material other
than GARBAGE as defined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
§ 4-5-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall collect garbage or
waste material within the town for money or other compensation without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) Penalty, see §
4-5-11
§ 4-5-3 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE; CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Filing application. Any person desiring a license required by this
chapter shall make application therefor to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Payment of fee. Upon approval of the application by the Town Council,
and after payment of the required fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit
as requested. The fee shall be in the amount as set by resolution of the Town
Council and the current fee schedule is available at the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. The collection of the hauler’s fee from residents of the town
is the hauler’s responsibility and the Town Council shall not be held
accountable therefor.
   (C)   Term of permit. The permit, once granted, shall be good until
terminated by the town or the hauler, or until nonpayment of the annual fee by
the hauler.
   (D)   Right to deny permit. The town reserves the right to deny a permit to
any applicant.
   (E)   Number of permits. The town may issue an unlimited number of permits
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 4-5-4 COUNCIL APPROVAL FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Assignment of this permit shall be only upon approval of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
§ 4-5-5 RATES AND CHARGES SUBJECT TO COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   All rates and charges for the services rendered under this chapter
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   The current rates for each permittee/hauler shall be attached to their
application and shall be approved with issuance of the permit until a future
change in said rates by the hauler, which shall also be approved by the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-5)
§ 4-5-6 OPERATION WITH EXPIRED OR TERMINATED PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any hauler whose permit has been terminated or expired
due to nonpayment to collect garbage, rubbish, or waste material within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-6) Penalty, see §
4-5-11
§ 4-5-7 RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may from time to time adopt reasonable rules and
regulations not inconsistent with this chapter nor federal or state rules and
regulations, to govern the operation of private haulers and to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-7)
§ 4-5-8 SERVICE ADEQUATE FOR TOWN REQUIREMENTS.
   The service to be furnished by any of the haulers granted permits hereunder
shall be adequate for the requirements of the town and its inhabitants, subject
to accident, interference, or interruption beyond the reasonable control of the
haulers, and shall be furnished under such reasonable rules and regulations as
the hauler may make from time to time for the proper conduct of their
respective businesses.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-8)
§ 4-5-9 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit granted pursuant to this chapter may be terminated by either the
town or the operator/hauler upon 60 days’ written notice to the other party.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-9)
§ 4-5-10 COVERED TANK OR TRUCK FOR HAULING.
   (A)   Tank or truck requirements. Each licensed hauler shall provide a
covered tank or truck, so constructed that the contents do not leak or spill
therefrom, in which all garbage/waste material collected by such hauler shall
be conveyed to the appropriate sanitary landfill.
   (B)   Sanitation of conveyance. The truck or conveyance used shall be kept
clean and as free from offensive odor as possible, and shall not be allowed to
stand in any street, alley, or public place longer than is reasonably necessary
to collect garbage.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-10)
§ 4-5-11 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
the general penalty provisions, §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-11)
TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION, AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1: NUISANCES
Section
   
5-1-1   Definitions
   
5-1-2   Public nuisance declared; enumeration not exclusive
   
5-1-3   Notice to abate nuisance
   
5-1-4   Hearing procedure
   
5-1-5   Removal; voluntary consent; affidavit
   
5-1-6   Disposal; assessment of costs
   
5-1-7   Search warrant
   
5-1-8   Owner and occupant responsibility
   
5-1-9   Court action authorized
   
5-1-10   Nuisance citations
   
5-1-11   Penalty
§ 5-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWOOD. Wood which is used for fuel (i.e., in a wood stove) which is
neatly stacked and/or organized.
   GARBAGE. Any putrescible solid or semi-solid animal and/or vegetable waste
material resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving, and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage, and sale of produce;
and any other matter whatsoever that may decompose, become foul, offensive,
unsanitary, or dangerous to health.
   JUNK or LITTER. Including, but not limited to, any iron, glass, paper, rags,
cordage, wood (excluding firewood), machinery parts, cloth, or other waste or
discarded material of any nature or substance whatsoever, or any scrap or
salvage materials.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town, or any town property within or
without the corporate limits, which is not a street or highway.
   REFUSE. Combustible and noncombustible discarded materials including but not
limited to paper, wood (excluding fire wood), glass, clothing products, leaves,
clippings, small branches, and limbs, resulting from residential and/or
manufacturing processes.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and to
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon,
or any part or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 377, passed 4-20-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-1-2 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED; ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas within the municipal limits of
the town, excluding those areas zoned as CI Commercial and Industrial, as set
forth in Title 11, Chs. 3 and 4.
   (B)   The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited in this code.
   (C)   The following shall constitute public nuisances:
      (1)   Interference with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals, or things that
interfere with the peace or which disturb the comfort or quiet of any person in
the town;
      (2)   Obnoxious, offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive
odors or the tainting of the air rendering it offensive and/or unwholesome so
as to affect the health or comfort of persons residing in the neighborhood
thereof, with the exception of wood smoke emitted from a fireplace or stove
properly installed as per manufacture’s specifications and in good working
order;
      (3)   Discharging of offensive matter. The placing, throwing, or
discharging from or out of any house or premises of any filthy, foul, or
offensive matter, liquid or effluent of any kind, into any street, alley, or
public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground;
      (4)   Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or
source of water supply in the town;
      (5)   Stagnant water. Any stagnant pool of water in the town;
      (6)   Emission of dense smoke. The emission of dense smoke from any fire,
chimney, engine, or burner, or other agency in the town so as to cause
annoyance or discomfort to the public, except wood smoke discharged from a
fireplace, boiler, stove or similar device properly installed as per
manufacture’s specifications and in good working order;
      (7)   Burning of garbage and refuse. It is unlawful to burn any garbage
or refuse within the town;
      (8)   Weeds. Weeds determined to be noxious by the State Weed and Pest
Council including but not limited to jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, white
top, halogeton, cocklebur, or a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of
land in the town;
      (9)   Maximum height of plants. Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than
trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, growing to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the town, except native, naturally occurring
plant life in undeveloped areas of the town; and
      (10)   Junk and litter. The accumulation or storage of junk or litter on
private or public property which is found: to promote blight and deterioration;
to invite plundering; to create fire hazards; to constitute an attractive
nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors; to create a
harborage for insects, rodents, skunks, and other vermin; and to be injurious
to the health, safety, and general welfare of the public. The presence of junk
and litter on public or private property shall constitute a public nuisance and
may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 378, passed 4-20-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
5-1-11
§ 5-1-3 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Compliance required.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any person receiving the notice of a public
nuisance as provided in this chapter to comply with the provisions of the
notice and to abate such nuisance within ten days following the receipt of such
notice; and if such person shall fail or refuse to abate such nuisance within
ten days following receipt of such notice, such failure is declared to be
unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such nuisance persists
thereafter shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   It is unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor for any person,
after having received notice as provided in this chapter, to remove any junk
from private property to any other private property upon which such storage is
not permitted or onto any public property.
   (B)   Contents of notice; procedure.
      (1)   Whenever the Mayor, Town Council, or the appointed representative
thereof is of the opinion that any condition is a public nuisance as defined
herein, the Mayor, Town Council, or the appointed representative thereof shall
attempt to give written notice to the owner of the condition if his or her
address is known, and to the owner of the land where the condition is located,
and to any other person or entity known by the Mayor, Town Council, or the
appointed representative thereof to have a security interest in the junk. The
notice shall be attempted by registered mail or by personal service if the
address of the individual or entity is known. In the case of junk, and when
affixing the notice to the junk is impractical, the notice shall be posted at
the site, or on or near the perimeter of the premises, where the nuisance
exists.
      (2)   Such notice shall include substantially the following information:
         (a)   A statement that a certain condition constitutes a NUISANCE as
defined within the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which the nuisance exists;
         (c)   A statement that such nuisance must be abated within ten days
following receipt of said notice;
         (d)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, the town may abate the nuisance, and the cost of abatement may be
charged to the owner of the nuisance or assessed against the land upon which
the nuisance exists, or both;
         (e)   A statement that a hearing upon the allegation of a public
nuisance and the assessment of costs may be requested by giving written notice
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days following the receipt of said
notice, and that the request must specify the property concerning which the
request is made, the requesting party’s name and address, and the nature of the
interest held by the requesting party in the alleged nuisance; that upon
request, a hearing will be scheduled to determine whether a public nuisance
exists and, if so, the amount of administrative costs and costs of abatement to
be assessed; and that if a hearing is not timely requested, the right to a
hearing shall be waived; and
         (f)   A statement that failure to abate the nuisance may result in a
town abatement, the assessment of costs associated therewith, and/or criminal
charges.
      (3)   In the event that notice, as provided in division (B)(1) above,
cannot practicably be given to each individual known by the Mayor, Town
Council, or the appointed representative thereof to have an interest in the
junk, service shall be made by publication. Such notice by publication shall be
made by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
The notice of publication shall contain the same information required in the
notice described in division (B)(1) above. Notice by publication may contain
multiple listings of public nuisances. Costs of publication shall be borne by
the owner of the property on which condition constituting a public nuisance was
situated.
      (4)   Proof of notice shall be made by the certification of any officer
or employee of the town, or by affidavit of any person over 18 years of age,
naming the person to whom notice was given and specifying the time, place, and
manner of notice. Proof of notice shall be made in each case and maintained for
a period of two years from the date of abatement of the nuisance for which
notice has been given.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
5-1-11
§ 5-1-4 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for hearing. A request for a hearing upon the allegation of a
public nuisance and the assessment of costs shall be made in writing and
delivered to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days following receipt of the
said notice to abate. Such request shall include a specific description of the
property concerning which the request is made, the name and address of the
requesting party, and the nature of the interest held by the requesting party.
   (B)   Failure to abate; authority of town. In the event a PUBLIC NUISANCE,
as defined in this chapter, remains unabated for more than ten days following
receipt of the said notice to abate, the Mayor, Town Council, or the appointed
representative thereof is granted the authority to abate, remove, or cause the
condition to be corrected; provided, however, that if a proper request for
hearing is timely filed, abatement shall only proceed upon resolution or order
of the Town Council or its designated hearing examiner.
   (C)   Holding of hearing; time and place. In the event a proper request for
hearing is timely filed as provided herein, a hearing shall be held before the
Town Council or such other individual or entity designated by the Town Council
to act as hearing examiner. The purpose of the hearing shall be to confirm or
deny the existence of a public nuisance as alleged and to take such further
action as is authorized under this chapter. Notice of the time, place, and hour
of the hearing shall be sent at least ten days in advance of the hearing to all
known parties.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence. At such hearing, all parties shall be
afforded an opportunity to present evidence, to cross examine, and to present
argument; provided, however, that all persons testifying shall be sworn; that
irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded; and
that the decision of the Town Council or hearing examiner shall be supported by
substantial evidence.
   (E)   Abatement; costs. At or after such hearing, and in the event of
confirmation that a public nuisance exists, the Town Council or the hearing
examiner, as the case may be, may resolve or order that the Mayor, Town
Council, and/or the designated employees or agents thereof, remove or otherwise
abate the nuisance; provided, however, that the time for abatement may be
extended if, in the opinion of the entity or person presiding as the hearing
examiner, the circumstances so justify. In the event a nuisance is confirmed,
administrative and removal costs may also be assessed at the hearing. If it is
found that a public nuisance does not exist, abatement authority shall be
denied and costs shall not be assessed.
   (F)   Right to appeal. Appeals from adverse decisions rendered pursuant to
division (D) above may be made to the District Court in the same manner as an
appeal from an adverse decision rendered by an agency in a contested case under
the provisions of Wyo. Stat. § 16-3-114. The hearing examiner, or the entity
presiding as hearing examiner, as provided in division (C) above, is an agency
within the meaning of the State Administrative Procedures Act, et seq., and
adverse decisions may be appealed in the manner provided therein.
   (G)   Right to hearing waived. In the event a request for hearing as
provided herein is not timely filed, the right to a hearing shall be considered
to have been waived.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-1-5 REMOVAL; VOLUNTARY CONSENT; AFFIDAVIT.
   The owner of any property upon which a nuisance exists may voluntarily
consent to the removal of such property by the town. In order to give such
consent, all owners of the property shall execute an affidavit in a form
acceptable to the Town Attorney, stating that there are no other owners of the
property or lienholders having a security interest in the property; that the
owners will reimburse the town for the actual costs of removal or such other
costs as are established by the Town Council for such removal; and that such
reimbursement will be made to the town within 30 days of removal. Such
affidavit shall constitute a statement by the owners signing such affidavit
that they will indemnify the town for any loss or expense alleged by any other
party as a result of removal or disposal. The execution of such affidavit shall
also release the town from any obligation to account for or pay over to the
owners any amount the town receives for the property.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 5-1-6 DISPOSAL; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   The Town Council shall, from time to time, determine and fix an amount to be
assessed as administrative costs in relation to enforcement of this chapter.
This cost of administration may be set as a fixed sum per removal or as a
percentage of the actual cost of removal under this chapter. In addition, the
costs of administration, as well as the actual costs of removal and storage,
may be charged against the owner of the property which had the condition
constituting a public nuisance and/or against the land or owner of the land
where the same was situated.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 5-1-7 SEARCH WARRANT.
   (A)   Application for authority. The Mayor, Town Council, or the
representative thereof may make application to the Municipal Court for
authority to enter upon land to examine the property for the purposes of making
a determination as to whether a public nuisance exists, and/or securing
information as to the ownership of the junk/condition thought to constitute a
public nuisance, and/or securing information as to the identity of the person
in control of the land where the nuisance is located.
   (B)   Authority of Court. The Municipal Court has authority to issue search
warrants and other processes necessary to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   Warrant issuance upon affidavit. A warrant shall issue only upon
affidavit, sworn to before a municipal judge, which establishes the grounds for
issuing the warrant. If the judge is satisfied that grounds for the application
exist or that there is probable cause to believe that they exist, he or she
shall issue a warrant identifying the purpose of the search, and naming or
describing the place to be searched. The warrant shall be directed to the
Mayor, Town Council, or the appointed representative thereof, or to any officer
authorized to enforce or assist in enforcing the laws of the state or of the
town. The warrant shall state the grounds or probable cause for its issuance
and the names of the persons whose affidavits have been taken in support
thereof. The warrant shall command that the search take place forthwith. The
warrant shall direct that it be served in the daytime, but for good cause
shown, the warrant may direct that it be served at any time.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 5-1-8 OWNER AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of nuisances. This requirement applies not only to
removal of loose litter and junk, but to materials on, or that become trapped
on, such locations as abut town sidewalks, strips, and parkways, and private or
publicly owned fences and wall bases, grassy and planted areas, borders,
embankments, and other such lodging points.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-1-9 COURT ACTION AUTHORIZED.
   The Town Attorney is authorized to institute such proceedings in the name of
the town in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property, entity or individual for which the charge for abating a nuisance
under this chapter has remained unpaid for a period of 30 days after a bill
therefor has been rendered to the owner of the property involved.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009)
§ 5-1-10 NUISANCE CITATIONS.
   Code enforcement officers or such person designated by the Mayor are hereby
granted authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter through the use of
forfeitable citations through the Town Municipal Court, using the bond schedule
developed by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-10) (Ord. 356, passed 2-19-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-1-11 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalty provisions contained in §
1-4-1. The same shall apply for each separate day of a violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-11) (Ord. 392, passed 9-5-2019; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
CHAPTER 2: USE CONTROL AREA
Section
   
5-2-1   Establishment of use control area
   
5-2-2   Prohibited uses
   
5-2-3   Recordation
   
5-2-4   Enforcement
   
5-2-5   Penalty
§ 5-2-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF USE CONTROL AREA.
   A use control area shall be and is hereby established within the town limits
within the real property boundaries as described in Exhibit A and as more
specifically delineated on the map, designated as Exhibit B, both of which
exhibits are attached to the ordinance codified herein, on file in the office
of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, which are incorporated herein by this reference.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 350, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 5-2-2 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses shall be prohibited in the specifically described use
control area (hereinafter UCA):
   (A)   Animal shelter, animal treatment or care facility, kennel;
   (B)   Construction of new buildings for permitted uses within the UCA
without consideration of the potential of subsurface vapor intrusion;
   (C)   Daycare;
   (D)   Food processing facility;
   (E)   Greenhouse, plant nursery (except in situations where greenhouse or
nursery cultivated plants are grown in clean soil imported to the site for
which there is no reasonable possibility of root penetration into contaminated
soils on the site);
   (F)   Hospital or hospice;
   (G)   Hotel or motel;
   (H)   Hunting or trapping;
   (I)   Jail or detention center;
   (J)   Nursing home;
   (K)   Residential;
   (L)   School; and
   (M)   Water well drilling terminating in the uppermost aquifer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 350, passed 3-1-2007) Penalty, see §
5-2-5
§ 5-2-3 RECORDATION.
   A certified copy of this chapter shall be placed of record in the office of
the County Clerk and ex officio register of deeds of the county, placing the
specified usage limits upon the real estate located within the town limits and
as indicated on the map attached as Exhibit B to the ordinance codified herein
and specifically described in the legal description attached as Exhibit A to
the ordinance codified herein, but only these portions of Exhibits A and B
located within the town limits. These prohibited uses are to run with the land
and shall be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them within
the town limits in perpetuity, unless removed by ordinance passed by the Town
Council in and for the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 350, passed 3-1-2007)
§ 5-2-4 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement authority; correction of violations.
      (1)   Each and every resident of the town, the town itself by and through
the Town Council, or the Sinclair Wyoming Refining Company or its successors or
assigns shall have the right and authority to enforce compliance with the UCA
requirements contained herein by applying for injunctive relief in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Upon the initiation of any prohibited use, a written notice of such
violation shall be directed by the town to the violator who shall then have ten
days after receipt of said notice to correct the violation, by ceasing the
prohibited use. If said violation is not so corrected, then each and every
resident of the town, the town itself by and through the Town Council or the
Sinclair Wyoming Refining Company or its successors or assigns may apply for
injunctive relief, in addition to municipal misdemeanor charges which may be
initiated by the town. The violator shall further be liable for all costs and
attorney fees incurred in enforcing compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   In the event suit is required to enjoin the violation of any of the
requirements contained herein, violator(s), in addition to any of the other
penalties provided herein or which may be assessed by a court, shall be jointly
and severally liable for all attorney fees and costs incurred in bringing such
action and enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Civil enforcement. Civil enforcement shall be by proceeding for
injunctive relief against any person violating or attempting to violate any
prohibited use, to restrain violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 350, passed 3-1-2007) Penalty, see §
5-2-5
§ 5-2-5 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalties imposed by the general penalty provisions contained in
§
1-4-1. The same shall apply for each separate day of a violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 350, passed 3-1-2007)
CHAPTER 3: TOWN LANDFILL
Section
   
5-3-1   Authority
   
5-3-2   Purpose
   
5-3-3   Definition
   
5-3-4   Landfill fees
   
5-3-5   Rules and regulations
   
5-3-6   Penalty
§ 5-3-1 AUTHORITY.
   The town, pursuant to Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-103(a)(xxi), as amended, is
authorized to promulgate rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 5-3-2 PURPOSE.
   The rules and regulations in this chapter are declared to be strictly a
sanitary measure and enacted for the promotion and protection of the public
health and safety, and prevention of fire hazards and nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 5-3-3 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, company, partnership, firm, corporation, or
organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 5-3-4 LANDFILL FEES.
   (A)   Fee continued. There is continued a municipal landfill fee for all
homes and business premises situated in the town.
   (B)   Residences. If a water tap is connected to the premises, the fee for
each residence, whether occupied or not, shall be an amount per month as set by
the City of Rawlins.
   (C)   Commercial haulers. If a water tap is connected to the premises, the
fee for all licensed commercial haulers, including but not limited to: hotels,
motels, restaurants, convalescent homes, hospitals, schools, industrial plants,
professional establishments, office buildings, and public institutions, whether
occupied or not, shall be an amount per month as set by the City of Rawlins.
   (D)   Lien against property; change of ownership. 
      (1)   The fees due pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a lien upon
the real property for which the landfill service is provided.
      (2)   All fees for landfill service must be paid before landfill service
will be provided to the premises after a change in ownership.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4) (Ord. 347, passed 12-15-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-3-5 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Days and hours of operation. The days and hours of operation shall be
as set from time to time by motion of the Town Council.
   (B)   Dumping in designated areas. Tree limbs and branches shall be dumped
in the areas designated by signs at the town landfill. No person shall dump
ashes, refuse, garbage, waste, or other matter, except in the areas specified
by signs at the town landfill.
   (C)   Destruction of property. No person shall deface, vandalize, or
maliciously destroy property, whether it be private or public, at the town
sanitary landfill.
   (D)   Burning prohibited. Burning of any matter at the town sanitary
landfill, except by designated landfill employees, is prohibited.
   (E)   Vehicles and automobiles excluded. Persons shall not dump or leave any
vehicles or automobiles at any time in the town sanitary landfill.
   (F)   Obstruction of access. No person shall obstruct the access to the pit
or other areas designated for dumping.
   (G)   Removal of property. Persons shall not, without permission of the Town
Council, remove any article or object which has been deposited or dumped at the
town sanitary landfill.
   (H)   Use restricted to residents. No person other than residents of the
town or those persons having express permission of the town shall use the town
dump site.
   (I)   Waste material transported in covered containers. All waste material
transported to the town dump site, save and except leaves and other natural,
organic matter, shall be transported in covered containers or otherwise
confined to prevent the waste material from being blown or otherwise
involuntarily removed from the transporting vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
5-3-6
§ 5-3-6 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the terms of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
CHAPTER 4: ABANDONED OR JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
5-4-1   Statute authority
   
5-4-2   Definitions
   
5-4-3   Declaration of health or safety hazard
   
5-4-4   Storage prohibited on private or public property
   
5-4-5   Removal of abandoned or junk vehicles
   
5-4-6   Hearing procedure
   
5-4-7   Notice of removal
   
5-4-8   Title to impounded vehicles
   
5-4-9   Notice of intent to impound
   
5-4-10   Suspension of impound procedure
   
5-4-11   Redemption
   
5-4-12   Disposition of impounded vehicles
   
5-4-13   Certificate of sale
   
5-4-14   Nonliability of town
   
5-4-15   Penalty
§ 5-4-1 STATUTE AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-1-
103 and 31-13-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005)
§ 5-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle shall be deemed to be ABANDONED under any of
the following circumstances; provided, however, that a vehicle left unattended
due to adverse road or weather conditions, acts of God, or mechanical
difficulties shall not be deemed to be ABANDONED for the period required to see
the passage of the conditions or a reasonable time to remove the vehicle for
repairs:
      (1)   If the vehicle is left unattended on a highway, public street, or
alley within the jurisdictional limits of the town for more than 24 hours after
a notice of intent to impound has been placed on the vehicle by a police
officer pursuant to this title;
      (2)   Any vehicle left unattended on public or private property without
the oral or written consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or
control of the property for more than five days after a notice of intent to
impound has been placed on the vehicle by a police officer pursuant to this
title; and/or
      (3)   Any vehicle left unattended or unclaimed on private property for
more than 30 days without the oral or written consent of the owner or the
person in lawful possession or control of the property or for more than 30 days
without the oral or written consent of the owner or the person in lawful
possession or control of the property after the expiration of the oral or
written consent.
      (4)   For the purposes of this chapter, a junk vehicle shall be presumed
to be abandoned if the owner has been afforded the notice and procedure
requirements of this chapter and the vehicle remains in noncompliance.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle, or parts thereof, shall be deemed to be JUNK under
any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Any vehicle wrecked, damaged, or disabled to the extent that it is
unable to perform its original intended function;
      (2)   Any vehicle partially or wholly dismantled;
      (3)   Any vehicle wrecked or damaged to the extent that prevents legal
operation; and/or
      (4)   Any vehicle junked or intended to be recycled or scrapped.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-3 DECLARATION OF HEALTH OR SAFETY HAZARD.
   The Town Council finds that, for the purpose of this chapter, any abandoned
or junk vehicle remaining on public or private property, and not enclosed in a
secure building or covered with a custom cover, not as a result of weather
conditions or mechanical failure where repairs within a reasonable time are
intended, is declared to be against public welfare and/or a public health and/
or public safety hazard within the community and is subject to removal and
disposition as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-4 STORAGE PROHIBITED ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Private property. No person owning or in charge or control of any
private property within the jurisdictional limits of the town shall allow or
permit any junk vehicle to remain unsheltered on such property for more than 30
days and shall be responsible for the removal of any such vehicle, including
the associated costs thereof.
   (B)   Public property. It is the responsibility of the owner of any vehicle
which is left or abandoned on any public property to remove such, including
payment of all associated costs thereof.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle that is enclosed in a secure building;
      (2)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when necessary for the operation of the business
enterprise;
      (3)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage or depository facility
maintained in a lawful place and manner by a governmental agency;
      (4)   An ANTIQUE MOTOR VEHICLE as defined in Wyo. Stat. § 31-2-223, which
is licensed as provided by law;
      (5)   A vehicle which is covered by a fitted custom car cover made for
the specific type and size of vehicle which it covers.
         (a)   In no instance may a person have more than two such covered
vehicles on his or her property.
         (b)   No custom covered vehicle may be stored on public property or
right-of-way.
      (6)   A junk vehicle on private property for which the Town Council has
granted a permit for the same to remain in its current location for a specified
period of time, if said permit has not run past the allotted time period. The
granting of such permit and the period of time authorized by the Town Council
shall be at its sole discretion and shall be determined on a case by case
basis, but in no event shall the time period, including any extensions thereof,
be longer than 60 days from the original granting of said permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
5-4-15
§ 5-4-5 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   Public streets or highways. Any abandoned vehicle may be removed from
a public street or highway by the town upon expiration of the 24-hour
requirement of the notice of intent to impound specified in §
5-4-9 of this chapter.
   (B)   Public property. An abandoned vehicle may be removed from public
property upon expiration of the five-day requirement of the notice of intent to
impound specified in §
5-4-9.
   (C)   Private property. An abandoned vehicle may be removed from private
property upon expiration of the five-day requirement of the notice of intent to
impound specified in §
5-4-9 after the written request of the owner of the property, or the person in
lawful control thereof, together with a signed statement that such vehicle has
been placed thereon without his or her consent. Any vehicle left unattended on
private property for 30 days without the consent of the owner or the person in
lawful possession or control of the property or after the expiration of the
consent, oral or written, of the owner or the person in lawful possession or
control of the property is presumed abandoned five days after a notice of
intent to impound has been placed on it pursuant to §
5-4-9.
   (D)   Conditions for removal. A junk vehicle kept on private property in
violation of the provisions of this chapter may be removed by the town after
the following conditions have been satisfied:
      (1)   Notice of the violation has been served upon or sent to the owner
or legal possessor of the real property by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, at the last known address as determined from the utility
records of the town or the tax records of the county and, where practical, a
notice shall also be affixed to the windshield or some other part of the
vehicle where it can be easily seen. The written notice mailed to the real
property owner or legal possessor shall include substantially the following
information:
         (a)   A statement that a certain vehicle is a JUNK VEHICLE, as defined
in §
5-4-2, the notice should include the make, year, and vehicle identification
number if reasonably possible;
         (b)   A description of the real property, by street address or
otherwise, on which the nuisance exists;
         (c)   A statement that such nuisance must be abated within 30 days
from the date on the notice;
         (d)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, the town may abate the nuisance, and the cost of the abatement may be
charged to the owner of the nuisance or assessed against the land upon which
the nuisance exists, or both;
         (e)   A statement that a hearing upon the allegation of a junk vehicle
and the assessment of costs may be requested by giving written notice to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days from the date on the notice of junk
vehicle, and that a request must specify the property concerning which the
request is made, the requesting party’s name and address, and the nature of the
interest held by the requesting party; that, upon request, a hearing will be
scheduled to determine if a junk vehicle exists and as to the assessment of
administrative costs and the costs of abatement; that if a hearing is not so
requested, the right to a hearing shall be waived; and
         (f)   A statement that failure to abate the junk vehicle may result in
a town abatement and/or criminal charges.
      (2)   Not less than 30 days have passed without the vehicle being removed
or enclosed in a secure building by the property owner or possessor. Removal of
the vehicle to another location within the town on private property in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, without regard to the time which
has elapsed after the notice was sent, is not sufficient to avoid removal or to
require the process to begin anew.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-6 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for hearing. A request for a hearing upon the allegation of a
junk vehicle and the assessment of costs shall be made in writing and delivered
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days from the date of the notice to
abate or remove. Such request shall specify the property concerning which the
request is made, the requesting party’s name, address, phone number, and the
nature of the interest held by the requesting party in the vehicle.
   (B)   Town authority to abate. In the event of a JUNK VEHICLE, as defined in
§
5-4-2, of which notice has been given, and which remains unabated for more than
30 days, the Mayor or his or her representative is granted the authority to
abate, remove, or cause the removal of the vehicle; provided, however, that if
a proper request for hearing is filed, abatement shall only proceed upon an
order of the Municipal Court or withdrawal of the request for hearing.
   (C)   Holding of hearing; notice. In the event a request for hearing is
filed and provided, a hearing shall be held before the Municipal Court or such
other individual or group as designated by the Town Council to act as hearing
examiner. The purpose of the hearing shall be to confirm or deny the existence
of a public nuisance and for taking such further action as is authorized under
this chapter. Notice of the time, place, and hour of the hearing shall be sent
at least 30 days in advance of the hearing to all known parties.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence, arguments. At such hearing, all parties
shall be afforded an opportunity to present evidence, to cross-examine, and to
present arguments; provided, that all persons testifying shall be sworn;
irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded; and
the decision of the Municipal Court Judge or hearing examiner shall be based
upon the type of evidence commonly relied upon by the Municipal Court.
   (E)   Decision and orders. At or after such hearing, and in the event of
confirmation that the vehicle is junk, the Municipal Judge or the hearing
examiner, as the case may be, may order that the Mayor and/or his or her
employees or agents remove or otherwise abate the nuisance; provided, however,
that if the circumstances justify, in the opinion of the Judge or person
presiding at the hearing, the time for abatement may be delayed. In the event a
nuisance is confirmed, administrative and removal costs may also be assessed at
the hearing. If it is found that a public nuisance does not exist, abatement
authority shall be denied and costs shall not be assessed.
   (F)   Right to appeal. Appeals from the Municipal Court or hearing examiner
may be made to the County District Court, second judicial district, under the
rules of appellate procedure as found in the state court rules in effect at
that time.
   (G)   Waiver of right to hearing. In the event a request for hearing, as
provided, is not timely filed, the right to a hearing shall be considered to
have been waived.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-7 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Request for removal. A request for the removal of an abandoned vehicle
from private property by a police officer shall be upon the written request,
upon a form prescribed by the State Department of Transportation (Department),
of the owner or person in lawful possession or control of the property.
   (B)   Written report of removal. The Police Department shall immediately
send a written report of the removal by a police officer to the County Sheriff
(Sheriff), which report shall include a description of the vehicle, the date,
time, and place of removal, the grounds for removal, and place of impoundment
of the vehicle. The Sheriff shall submit the report provided by the Police
Department to the Department with a determination of the fair market value of
the vehicle as required
   (C)   Written notification. Upon receipt of a report as provided, the
Department shall provide written notification to the vehicle owner of record
and to any lienholders of record.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-8 TITLE TO IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, title to any vehicle impounded by a
police officer not reclaimed by the registered owner or any lienholder of
record within 30 days of the written notice shall vest with the county
government where the vehicle is impounded.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-9 NOTICE OF INTENT TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   Placement of notice on vehicle. A notice of intent to impound an
abandoned vehicle by a police officer shall be placed in a prominent position
on a vehicle when a police officer reasonably believes it is abandoned. The
notice of intent shall remain on the vehicle at least 24 hours prior to removal
if abandoned on a highway and five days if abandoned on public or private
property and impounded by a police officer.
   (B)   Removal from private property; conditions for posting notice. In the
event a JUNK VEHICLE, as defined in §
5-4-9, a notice of intent to impound shall be posted when the following
conditions have been satisfied:
      (1)   The 30-day notice as required by §
5-4-6(C) to the owner of the property has expired; and
      (2)   No action has been taken by the owner of the property, or any other
person, to bring the vehicle into compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Time for posting notice on vehicle. The posted notice of intent to
impound a JUNK VEHICLE shall be placed upon the vehicle not less than 24 hours
prior to the time the vehicle is removed.
   (D)   Information in notice. The notice of intent to impound shall contain
not less than the following information:
      (1)   The date and time the notice was posted on the vehicle;
      (2)   The fact that, after the expiration of 24 hours after the time of
posting the notice, the town intends to remove the vehicle; and
      (3)   The address and telephone number of the town agency which can be
contacted to prevent the removal of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-10 SUSPENSION OF IMPOUND PROCEDURE.
   In the event that the registered owner, any lienholder, or authorized agent
of the owner contacts the town department specified on the notice of intent to
impound and indicates that the vehicle will be brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and other applicable law, the town shall suspend
the removal of the vehicle for not less than 48 hours in order to obtain
written assurance from the owner or agent that the vehicle will be brought into
compliance within a specified period of time. If the vehicle is brought into
compliance within the specified time period with the requirements of this
chapter, then the impound procedure is terminated. If the owner, however, fails
to bring the vehicle into compliance within the specified time period, then the
town may complete the removal of the vehicle without beginning the process
anew.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-11 REDEMPTION.
   The owner or lienholder may redeem a vehicle in impound pursuant to the
provisions of Wyo. Stat. §§ 31-13-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-12 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Disposition of impounded vehicles shall be governed by the provisions of
Wyo. Stat. §§ 31-13-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-12) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-13 CERTIFICATE OF SALE.
   Certificate of sale of impounded vehicles shall be governed by the
provisions of Wyo. Stat. §§ 31-13-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-13) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-14 NONLIABILITY OF TOWN.
   If any vehicle is moved from any highway, street, alley, or public or
private property as provided for in this chapter, the owner of the vehicle may
not institute in any state court a suit in law or equity against any police
officer or his or her agent, or the town or its employees or agents for the
recovery of the value of any item in or on the vehicle that may be lost,
stolen, or damaged resulting therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-14) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 5-4-15 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalties imposed by the general penalty provisions, §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-15) (Ord. 345, passed 4-21-2005; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
TITLE 6: POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-1-1   Department established
   
6-1-2   Duties
§ 6-1-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Police Department for the town, which shall
consist of the Chief of Police and such police officers as may from time to
time be hired by the Chief of Police, with the approval of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 6-1-2 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and all members
of the Police Department to preserve peace, law, and order, and protect the
rights of all persons and property by the enforcement of all laws and
ordinances and orders of the Mayor and the Town Council.
   (B)   Chief. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that all
provisions of the ordinances of the town are duly enforced and to perform such
other duties as the Town Council may require of him or her or that are required
by state law and by the provisions of the ordinances of the town. The Chief of
Police shall also have the authority to hire and fire all other members of the
Police Department, with the approval and consent of the Mayor.
   (C)   Police officers. The police officers of the town shall possess all the
privileges and be subject to all the duties imposed upon such officers by state
law and the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-2-1   Volunteer Fire Department created
   
6-2-2   Funding and expenditures
   
6-2-3   Fire Chief
   
6-2-4   Assistant Fire Chiefs and officers
   
6-2-5   Members
   
6-2-6   Officers and members, duties
   
6-2-7   Insignia
   
6-2-8   Police authority and right of entry
   
6-2-9   Records, reports, and inspections
   
6-2-10   Compliance with orders of inspector
   
6-2-11   Evacuation; demolition; entry authorized
   
6-2-12   Records and reports of activities
   
6-2-13   Interference with Fire Department
   
6-2-14   Cooperation of Water Department
   
6-2-15   Lending firefighting apparatus
   
6-2-16   False fire alarms
   
6-2-17   Compliance with order of Fire Chief
   
6-2-18   Fire hazard; abatement of town
   
6-2-19   Fire protection by other groups
   
6-2-20   Penalty
§ 6-2-1 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is created and established a Volunteer Fire Department which shall
prevent and extinguish fires, educate the public in all matters pertaining to
fires and fire prevention, care for all firefighting apparatus and other
municipal property in its charge, and perform such additional duties as may be
assigned to it by resolution or ordinance of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 6-2-2 FUNDING AND EXPENDITURES.
   Monies shall be appropriated from the General Fund of the town for the
operating expenses of the Fire Department. In addition, the Fire Department is
authorized to raise funds and solicit donations through social activities, for
the purpose of defraying expenses of the Department, which funds shall be
turned over to and earmarked by the Town Clerk-Treasurer for disbursement along
with appropriated funds in accordance with applicable ordinances and state
statutes for Fire Department purposes. No member of the Department or any other
person shall contract any indebtedness on behalf of the Department unless
authorized to do so with approval by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 6-2-3 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Appointment, oath, and bond.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed for a four-year term by the Mayor
with the consent of the governing body, and may be removed by the Mayor and
governing body for incompetency or neglect of duty at any time during the four-
year term. The Fire Chief shall take and subscribe an official oath and shall
file the oath with the Clerk-Treasurer, the oath to be the same as the oath
taken by other officers of the town, except for additions and/or alterations as
may be obviously necessary or desirable to render the oath suitable and
adaptable to the intent of such officer and which may be authorized by the
governing body.
      (2)   In addition to the oath of office, the Chief shall execute a bond
to the people of the town if such bond is deemed necessary by the governing
body, in the amount as directed by the governing body, conditioned upon
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office in accordance with law
and within the boundaries of this authority, and shall file the bond with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The expense of the bond is to be paid out of the General
Fund of the town treasury, in the same manner as that in which the expense of
the bonds for other officers of the town is paid.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Chief of the Fire Department shall be
responsible for the discipline, good order, and proper conduct of the entire
Department, and for the enforcement of all ordinances and regulations
pertaining to it. He or she shall be responsible for the proper care of the
house, fire apparatus, and all other property of the Department or in its
charge. He or she shall have command and control over all officers and members
of the Department and all houses, fire apparatus, and other property of the
Department or in its charge, and he or she likewise shall have control of all
persons present at fires.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-2-4 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEFS AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Assistant Chiefs. The Fire Chief shall have the power to appoint two
Assistant Chiefs such that the town would have 24-hour, seven day a week fire
protection.
   (B)   Officers. The Fire Chief may appoint and prescribe the duties of such
other Fire Department officers as may be deemed necessary, subject to the
approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 6-2-5 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Volunteer and auxiliary. In addition to the Fire Chief and officers of
the Fire Department, there shall be volunteer firefighters and auxiliary
firefighters who may be referred to as members of the town Volunteer Fire
Department. The volunteer firefighters and auxiliary firefighters shall be
referred to jointly as the Town Volunteer Fire Department. There shall be such
number of positions for both volunteer firefighters and auxiliary firefighters
as are from time to time approved by the governing body. Auxiliary firefighters
shall not be actual volunteer firefighters and shall act only in accordance
with the adopted town policy pertaining to auxiliary firefighters.
   (B)   Appointment; training course.
      (1)   No person shall be accepted to the position of volunteer
firefighter until he or she has taken a training course prescribed by the Fire
Chief, and passed an examination indicating adequate knowledge of the matters
taught in the course. Such test shall be prescribed by the Fire Chief, and
matters covered shall include but not be limited to methods of firefighting,
types of buildings, operation of equipment, first aid, treatment of smoke
inhalation, administering cardiopulmonary resuscitation or CPR, and such other
relevant items as shall be directed by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   In the case of any individual who has prior experience as a
firefighter on a volunteer fire department or on a full time fire department,
the Chief may waive any part of the course, but the applicant shall take the
test.
      (3)   All auxiliary firefighters shall be exempt from taking the
prescribed training courses and examination as delineated in division (B)(1)
above. The Fire Chief shall be responsible for prescribing the training
requirements, if any, for all auxiliary volunteer firefighters.
   (C)   In service training. Each volunteer firefighter shall take regular
training at least once each month, on the subjects prescribed and in the manner
prescribed by the Fire Chief. The Chief shall require a minimum number of hours
of training each month for each volunteer firefighter. The minimum number of
hours shall be the amount required, in the opinion of the Chief, to learn new
techniques and to continue to maintain skills under old techniques. Auxiliary
firefighters shall not be required to take any in service training, except as
determined by the Fire Chief, but may voluntarily participate in training at
the discretion of the Fire Chief.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Volunteer Fire Department shall not
receive payment for time spent answering fire calls. Members should not be paid
for time attending any required training or any other training in connection
with service as a volunteer firefighter. Volunteer firefighters who are members
of the Town Volunteer Fire Department shall have the option of the town
contributing to the state’s Volunteer Firefighters’, EMT, Search and Rescue
Pension Account in an amount to be determined annually by the Council.
Auxiliary firefighters who are members of the Town Volunteer Fire Department
shall not receive pay and shall not have the option of the town contributing to
the state’s Volunteer Firefighters’, EMT, Search and Rescue Pension Account for
their benefit.
   (E)   List of members. The Chief of the Fire Department shall maintain, in
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, an accurate list of the members of the
Fire Department and shall report promptly any additions or withdrawals from the
membership.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-2-6 OFFICERS AND MEMBERS, DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of every officer and member of the Department to obey
without question the orders of his or her superior officers at all times while
in the fire station or at, or going to, or returning from fires.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-2-7 INSIGNIA.
   (A)   Wearing of insignia required. The insignia of the Fire Department
shall be determined by a vote of its members, and no member of the Department
shall attend any drill practice or respond to any fire alarm without wearing
such insignia, whenever compliance with this section is reasonably possible,
and if attendance at any fire drill or fire without the insignia is
unavoidable, it shall be the duty of any member lacking such identification, to
wear a helmet, or other distinctive garb as designated by the officer in charge
of the drill or firefighting procedure, by which the member may be readily
identified as a member of the Department.
   (B)   Penalty for noncompliance not necessary. No member failing through
inadvertence and no fault of his or her own to comply with this section shall
be penalized under the terms of this chapter for failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 6-2-8 POLICE AUTHORITY AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Police power. The Chief of the Fire Department and members acting
under his or her orders shall have full and complete police powers and
authority within the fire station, at fires and proceeding to and returning
from them, in all matters pertaining to the Fire Department.
   (B)   Authority at fires. The Chief or other officer in charge shall have
authority to prescribe limits within which no person shall be admitted except
by order of the officer. While actually attendant at a fire, the Police Chief
and his or her deputy and all other law enforcement officers of the town shall
be under the orders of the Chief or other officer of the Department in charge
of the fire, and such law enforcement officers shall cooperate with the officer
in charge in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Right of entry during emergency. In the case of an emergency, the
members of the Fire Department acting under the orders of the Chief shall have
authority to enter any building in the proper performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
§ 6-2-9 RECORDS, REPORTS, AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Annual inventory of Department property. The Chief of the Fire
Department, immediately after assuming office and annually thereafter, shall
make an inventory of all property owned by the Department or in its charge,
noting the condition of each article. The inventory shall be submitted to the
Mayor and governing body at the regular meeting of the governing body last
occurring before the meeting in which the governing body annually considers and
enacts the appropriation of funds to defray expenses of the town for the fiscal
year.
   (B)   Recommendations for purchases or repairs. The Chief shall accompany
the inventory of equipment with a list of his or her recommendations for the
purchase of additional equipment, and repairs to existing equipment he or she
may deem necessary, and any other recommendations he or she may desire to
submit affecting the Fire Department.
   (C)   Inspection of fire hydrants. The Chief shall inspect or cause to be
inspected by members of the Department, at least twice annually, and more often
if necessary, all fire hydrants and shall list those needing attention in his
or her next succeeding report to the governing body.
   (D)   Report damage or accidents involving members. Loss of, or damage to,
equipment and accidents involving members of the Fire Department in the
performance of their duties shall be reported immediately by the Chief, to the
Mayor and governing body.
   (E)   Annual inspection of buildings. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief
to inspect or cause to be inspected by officers or members of the Department,
as often as may be necessary, but not less than once each year, all buildings,
premises, and public thoroughfares, except the interiors of private dwellings,
for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions
liable to cause fire, or any violation of the provisions or intent of any
ordinance of the town affecting safety and/or fire prevention; however, no
officer of the Fire Department shall enter onto private property without the
consent of the occupant or owner, proper court order, or probable cause that a
violation of an ordinance, an emergency situation, or an immediate safety
hazard exists.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 6-2-10 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Authority to order remedial action. Whenever any officer or member of
the Department shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other place,
combustible or explosive matter or any dangerous accumulation of rubbish or
unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or any other highly
flammable materials especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to
endanger property, or shall find any obstruction to or on any fire escape,
stair, passageway, door, or window, liable to interfere with the operations of
the Department, or egress of occupants, in case of fire, or shall find any
condition dangerous to life or property by reason of the fire hazard thereby
created, the member of the Department shall be fully authorized and it is
hereby made his or her duty to order any hazardous condition as described to be
removed or remedied, and whether or not the member is engaged in any routine
fire inspection shall not affect the validity of the order.
   (B)   Compliance with order required. The order shall be complied with by
the owner or occupant of the premises or building, subject to appeal within 24
hours to the Mayor, who shall, within ten days, review the order and file his
or her decision thereon, and unless the order is revoked or modified, it shall
remain in full force and be obeyed by the owner or occupant, and any owner or
occupant failing to comply with any such order within ten days after the appeal
shall have been determined, or if no appeal is taken, then, within ten days
after the service of the order, shall be liable to penalty under the terms of
this chapter.
   (C)   Responsibility for abatement. In those instances in which the owner
and occupant of a building, or of any premises, is not one and the same person,
the occupant of such building or premises shall first be held responsible for
the abatement of any dangerous conditions as described in this chapter, but in
the event of the occupant being unavailable or otherwise immune to process, the
owner of the building or premises shall be responsible.
   (D)   Order discontinuance of use of dangerous device. The Fire Chief shall
have full authority to order the immediate discontinuance of the use of any
stove, stovepipe, flue, furnace, electric wiring, or other hazardous devices,
pending results of an appeal to the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10) Penalty, see §
6-2-20
§ 6-2-11 EVACUATION; DEMOLITION; ENTRY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Authority to order evacuation. For the purpose of protecting persons
or property, the Fire Chief or other officer of the Fire Department in charge
of extinguishment of any fire shall have authority to order the evacuation and/
or abandonment of any building in immediate danger from an imminent spreading
of such fire. The members of the Fire Department are to remove the contents of
any threatened building whenever the authorized order for action cannot be
otherwise carried out, and the officer in charge of extinguishment of any fire
shall have complete police authority in the matter of removing persons from any
threatened building.
   (B)   Authority to break into building. For the purpose of investigating the
extent of any fire, or the extent of damage or danger and/or the need for
evacuation, abandonment, or the action to be taken for the protection of
persons or property, the Chief or other officer in charge, and members of the
Fire Department working under the orders of the officer, shall have authority
to enter any building, private residence, or otherwise, breaking into the
building if necessary. No break in or other entry without consent of the owner,
proprietor, or occupant of the building shall be ordered or made except in
those cases which the owner, proprietor, or occupant is present but refuses to
grant consent; and when entry is immediately necessary for the protection of
any person or for the protection of any valuable property.
   (C)   Authority to order demolition. The officer in charge shall have
authority to order demolition of any building, fences, or other objects
obstructing access to fire hydrants and/or whose existence is liable to further
the spread of any dangerous fire, and the town shall not be liable for the loss
to the owner of the buildings incurred by reason of such demolition.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11)
§ 6-2-12 RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ACTIVITIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of the activities of the Fire Department and shall make a thorough
investigation of each fire and report to the Mayor and governing body monthly,
giving in detail the following information in regard to each fire, if
available: cause, location, time, owner, tenant, occupancy, type of building,
insurance carried, insurance paid, building loss, contents loss, how
extinguished, apparatus used, firefighters present, adequacy of water supply
and pressure, and any other information of value in such a report, or desired
by any member of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12)
§ 6-2-13 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Entering station or using equipment. No person shall enter or be
allowed to enter the fire station unless accompanied by a member of the
Department, unless authorized so to enter by a member of the Department or the
administrative official. No person not a member of the Department shall use any
of the fire apparatus at fires or otherwise unless acting under orders of the
officer of the Fire Department in charge of the fire, nor shall any person
interfere in any way with the Department or any member of the Department, in
the performance of his, her, or its duty.
   (B)   Responding to fire alarm; parking near fire hydrant.
      (1)   Upon hearing a fire alarm, all drivers of vehicles shall take due
warning and, upon the approach of fire apparatus, shall move promptly to the
right curb and stop in order to leave the middle of the street clear for
passage of the fire apparatus.
      (2)   Vehicles shall not follow fire apparatus nearer than one full block
and shall not proceed to any point within one full block of the fire.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not apply to those vehicles driven by
members of the Department proceeding to the fire for the purpose of assistance
in its extinguishment.
      (4)   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or
before the entrance to any theater, hall, or other building in which large
assemblages are held, and no vehicles shall be driven over any fire hose or
other firefighting apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) Penalty, see §
6-2-20
§ 6-2-14 COOPERATION OF WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The Water Department or its equivalent shall cooperate in every way possible
with the Fire Department, to provide an adequate supply at pressures suitable
for firefighting, and shall supply the fire department one or more accurate
maps of the water distributing system, showing the size and location of all
mains, valves, and fire hydrants, which shall be posted and maintained in a
conspicuous place in the fire station, and shall report promptly regarding the
mains, and any other information relative to the water supply to any and all
parts of the town, which information shall also be posted for the information
of firefighters and other interested residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14)
§ 6-2-15 LENDING FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS.
   Firefighting apparatus and other town property in the charge of the
Department shall not be loaned or rented except by permission of the Chief of
the Department and the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15)
§ 6-2-16 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall knowingly give a false alarm of fire except those for test
purposes of the alarm system, given or authorized by the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-16) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
6-2-20
§ 6-2-17 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Compliance required; filing of complaint for noncompliance.
      (1)   Upon the receipt of an order from the Fire Chief to abate any
dangerous condition or fire hazard as described in this chapter, the owner or
proprietor of the premises upon which the fire hazard or dangerous condition
exists shall comply at once with the order.
      (2)   If the owner or proprietor has not complied with the order within
three days following its issuance, the Fire Chief shall sign and file a
complaint with the Municipal Judge of the town, accusing the owner or
proprietor of a misdemeanor and setting forth the nature of the offense
committed.
   (B)   Failure to comply. If convicted, the defendant named in the complaint
shall be fined as provided in this chapter and shall be ordered by the
Municipal Court Judge to comply with the order of the Fire Chief, and
thereafter, every day that the offensive condition is continued in existence
shall constitute a separate and punishable offense, in addition to which a
separate fine for contempt of court may be imposed. The Municipal Judge may
permit the defendant a longer time in which to abate the condition if he or she
deems leniency necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-17) Penalty, see §
6-2-20
§ 6-2-18 FIRE HAZARD; ABATEMENT OF TOWN.
   (A)   Notify Council of fire hazard. In those instances in which a fire
hazard or dangerous condition is found to exist as provided in this chapter and
the owner or proprietor of the premises is not to be found within the town, nor
otherwise available upon the exertion of reasonable effort upon the part of the
Fire Chief, or refuses or fails to remedy the hazard or condition, the Fire
Chief shall notify the Council at the next regular meeting of the existence of
the fire hazard or dangerous condition and the location thereof and the fact
that the proprietor is not available or that the proprietor refuses or has
failed to remedy the hazard or condition.
   (B)   Order abatement by town; assessment of costs. Upon receipt of such
notice, the Council is authorized to order the abatement of the condition
reported as provided in this chapter. The abatement shall be carried out by the
proper officer or officers of the town, members of the Fire Department or
otherwise, and the expense of the abatement shall be paid out of the General
Funds of the town treasury and shall be included, together with a surcharge
equal to 200% of such costs to cover indirect administrative costs, in a bill
charged against the owner of the property within or upon which the fire hazard
or dangerous condition was found to exist.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-18)
§ 6-2-19 FIRE PROTECTION BY OTHER GROUPS.
   No group of persons may provide fire protection and/or fire suppression on
an organized basis unless and until such group has been organized as directed
by this chapter, and its operations and procedures specifically approved by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-19) Penalty, see §
6-2-20
§ 6-2-20 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a fine
as provided in §
1-4-1. Each day of an offense is constituted a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-20)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
6-3-1   Definitions
   
6-3-2   Jurisdiction
   
6-3-3   Permit requirements; fee
   
6-3-4   Cruelty to animals
   
6-3-5   Maiming or poisoning animals
   
6-3-6   Carcasses removed from town
   
6-3-7   RESERVED
   
6-3-8   Animals at large
   
6-3-9   Creating nuisances
   
6-3-10   Vicious animals
   
6-3-11   Public health and animal waste
   
6-3-12   Destructive animal; conviction of violation
   
6-3-13   Hunting prohibited
   
6-3-14   Killing or mistreating animals
   
6-3-15   Using impounded or abandoned animals for research
   
6-3-16   Injured animals
   
6-3-17   New residents, compliance
   
6-3-18   Violation a misdemeanor
Dogs
   
6-3A-1   Licensing requirements; fee
   
6-3A-2   Leash required in public
   
6-3A-3   Rabies vaccination required
   
6-3A-4   Payment of fees; vaccination certificate; tag
   
6-3A-5   Records required
   
6-3A-6   Limit on number kept
   
6-3A-7   Impoundment and redemption provisions
   
6-3A-8   Barking or howling
   
6-3A-9   Biting by dogs; rabies test
   
6-3A-10   Teasing or abusing
   
6-3A-11   Violation a misdemeanor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMPHIBIAN. Any member of the class amphibian, typically aquatic in larval
stage and terrestrial as an adult, breathes with lungs as an adult, has moist
skin, lacking scales and claws.
   ANIMAL. Any living dumb creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the Town Council for the purpose
of impounding and caring for animals held under authority of this chapter.
   AQUATIC. Growing or living in or frequenting water.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   A dog is deemed to be AT LARGE if it is off the premises of the
owner and the dog is not under restraint.
      (2)   All other animals are deemed to be AT LARGE if they are off the
premises of the owner and not under proper restraint.
   CAGE BIRDS. Any feathered vertebrate living inside a cage not fowl.
   CITATION. A notice provided to persons whose animals have violated any
provision of this chapter. This notice shall be on a standard CITATION form and
shall include the name of the owner; a description of the animal; a recital of
the section violated and the facts that support the violation; the amount of
bond fine and signature of the issuing law enforcement officer.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. Activities that have a primary purpose of making a
profit.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals kept or raised for use and/or profit, including, but not
limited to, fowl and rabbits.
   NUISANCE. Any animal which trespasses on public or private property; is at
large; damages, soils, or defecates on private or public property; causes
garbage which has previously been placed in a garbage or refuse container to be
strewn or deposited on private or public property; habitually, constantly, or
frequently disturbs the sleep, rest, tranquility, or peace of any neighborhood
or person; chases pedestrians, bicyclists, or motor vehicles; attacks other
domestic animals; any dog in heat which is not confined; any animal which is
tethered in such a way that either it or its tether obstructs any part of a
public road, alley, or pedestrian walkway; any animal which creates offensive
odors disturbing to any neighbors and/or persons.
   OWNER. Includes the legal owner or any person having the care, custody, or
control of any animal.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, company, corporation, or other entity.
   SECURED. Confined effectually.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any trained and certified animal commonly understood to be a
helpmate to a handicapped individual or one trained for an occupation,
including, but not limited, to a trained search and rescue dog.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnosis and treatment of
diseases and injuries of animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 6-3-2 JURISDICTION.
   It is declared to be the policy of the town that the Mayor and Town Council
shall have jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating animals within the
corporate limits of the town and preventing, abating, and removing nuisances or
annoyances and offensive matter created by the keeping or maintaining of such
animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 6-3-3 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, pasture,
stable, corral, or house within the town any animal, excluding dogs, cats, and
fish, without first obtaining a permit therefor. Upon the action of the Town
Council for special events and youth programs, the requirements for permits may
be waived. Dogs shall be licensed pursuant to §§
6-3A-1 through
6-3A-11.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, pasture,
stable, corral, or house, or construct any structure to be used for keeping,
maintaining, stabling, corralling, or housing, any animal, excluding dogs,
cats, and fish, within one-half mile beyond the corporate limits of the town
without first obtaining a permit therefor.
      (3)   Structures to be used for keeping, maintaining, stabling,
corralling, or housing such animals, excluding dogs, cats, and fish, shall
include but shall not be limited to fences, corrals, loading pens, and barns.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit required by the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Town Council or the Town
Council’s designee.
   (C)   Permit fee. Permits for keeping, maintaining, stabling, corralling, or
housing such animals, excluding dogs, cats, and fish, shall be issued by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer upon the payment by the permittee of an initial license
fee and, thereafter, an annual license fee.
   (D)   Investigation of applicant. The Town Council shall, upon receipt of an
application for a permit required under this chapter, take such action upon
such application as in its judgment will best serve, promote, and protect the
public health and welfare of the town.
   (E)   Duration of permit. Permits issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be issued for the calendar year.
   (F)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked or canceled by the Town Council at any time during the term thereof;
provided, that the Mayor and Town Council have first received a complaint in
writing from a person or persons, including the Chief of Police, and such
complaint shall thereupon be investigated by a committee composed of at least
three public officials, to be appointed by the Mayor, which committee shall
investigate such complaint and submit a recommendation to the Town Council.
That recommendation, along with a copy of the complaint, shall then be
forwarded to the permittee.
      (2)   A request for a hearing upon the recommendation of revocation or
cancellation of a permit shall be made in writing and delivered to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer within ten days from the date the recommendation is sent to the
permittee. Such request shall specify the permit concerning which the request
is made, the requesting party’s name, address, phone number, and the nature of
the interest held by the requesting party.
      (3)   In the event of a recommendation, which notice has been given, and
no hearing is requested, the Town Council may revoke or cancel the permit. If a
proper request for hearing is filed, revocation or cancellation shall only
proceed upon an order of the Municipal Court or withdrawal of the request for
hearing.
      (4)   In the event a request for hearing is filed and provided, a hearing
shall be held before the Municipal Court or such other individual or group as
designated by the Town Council to act as hearing examiner. The purpose of the
hearing shall be to decide whether revocation or cancellation of the permit is
proper and for taking such further action as is authorized under this chapter.
Notice of the time, place, and hour of the hearing shall be sent at least 30
days in advance of the hearing to all known parties.
      (5)   At such hearing, all parties shall be afforded an opportunity to
present evidence, to cross-examine, and present argument; provided, that all
persons testifying shall be sworn; irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitious evidence shall be excluded; and the decision of the Municipal Court
Judge or hearing examiner shall be based upon the type of evidence commonly
relied upon by the Municipal Court.
      (6)   At or after such hearing, and in the event of confirmation that
revocation or cancellation of the permit is appropriate, the Municipal Judge or
the hearing examiner, as the case may be, may order that the Mayor and/or his
or her employees or agents revoke or cancel the permit. In the event the
recommendation of revocation or cancellation is confirmed, administrative costs
may also be assessed at the hearing. If it is found that the revocation or
cancellation is not appropriate, revocation or cancellation authority shall be
denied and costs shall not be assessed.
      (7)   Appeals from the Municipal Court or hearing examiner may be made to
the County District Court, Second Judicial District, under the rules of
appellate procedure as found in the state court rules in effect at that time.
      (8)   In the event a request for hearing, as provided, is not timely
filed, the right to a hearing shall be considered to have been waived.
   (G)   Keeping without permit a nuisance. The keeping, maintaining, stabling,
corralling, or housing of any animal in violation of this chapter shall
constitute and is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-4 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Maltreatment. No owner shall fail to provide his or her animals with
sufficient, good, and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection
from the weather, and veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and
humane care and treatment. No person shall beat, cruelly treat, torment,
overload, overwork, tease, or otherwise abuse or molest any animal or cause or
permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, horse tripping, or other combat in
which animals are involved.
   (B)   Abandonment. Abandonment of any animal is considered cruelty.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-5 MAIMING OR POISONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall willfully kill, maim, or disfigure any animal except as
affirmatively provided in this chapter, or administer poison or cause to be
ingested, any foreign object to any such animal, or expose any poisonous
substance with the intent that it shall be taken by any such animal except
pests of public health importance. This section does not limit the actions of a
police officer when the officer determines the existence of a public safety
danger. This section also does not limit a person’s right to reasonably protect
himself, herself or another from a possible animal attack.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-6 CARCASSES REMOVED FROM TOWN.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal which shall in any manner
come to its death within the town, to immediately remove the body or carcass of
the animal and dispose of same in a legal manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-7 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
Editor’s Note:
   This section is repealed by Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024.
§ 6-3-8 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   Owner responsibility. It is unlawful for an owner to allow his or her
animal to be at large.
   (B)   Keeping on leash. Dogs must be kept on a leash at all times by their
owners when the dogs are upon any property neither owned nor leased by the
owner. A dog not on a leash will be an animal at large and its owner will be
subject to the provisions of §
6-3-18.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-9 CREATING NUISANCES.
   (A)   Owner to maintain control. No owner or person in charge of any animal
or animals shall fail to exercise proper care and control of such animal or
animals to prevent them from becoming a NUISANCE, as defined herein.
   (B)   Groups of animals. For the purposes of this section or a conviction
hereunder, it shall not be necessary to demonstrate which animal of a group of
animals has created the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-10 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Keeping vicious animal. No person shall keep a vicious animal that
manifests a disposition to bite or attack persons without having the animal
secured and/or muzzled. Proof of the fact that the animal has bitten or
attacked a person or other animal at any place where that person or other
animal is legally entitled to be is evidence that the animal is vicious.
   (B)   Destruction of animal. Upon a conviction of a violation of this
section, if it appears to the court that the animal is still living, the court
may, in addition to punishment of the owner, order law enforcement officers to
forthwith cause such animal or dog to be humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-11 PUBLIC HEALTH AND ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   Maintenance of property.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any animal to keep
his or her property free and clear of animal waste so as not to present a
potential danger to the public health, as determined by the Police Department
or alternate personnel designated by the Town Council.
      (2)   If the determination is made that a situation exists which is
potentially dangerous to the public health, a notice of ordinance violation may
be issued, and, upon conviction, the owner shall be punished as provided in
this chapter.
   (B)   Removal of waste. The owner of every dog, cat, or other animal is
responsible for the removal of excreta deposited on public walks, recreation
areas, or private property other than that of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-11) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see § 
6-3-18
§ 6-3-12 DESTRUCTIVE ANIMAL; CONVICTION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, or having possession of any animal, who
allows the animal to damage, destroy, mutilate, ravage, or deface (not
including a violation of §
6-3-11) any property or animal, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon proper
complaint and conviction, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon the conviction of a violation of this section, the court may,
following a hearing in which evidence must be produced to show that the
individual has repeatedly kept animals which have viciously attacked other
animals or livestock, forthwith revoke the owner’s privilege to own any animal
within the town limits.
   (C)   Any individual who owns an animal after having their privilege to do
so revoked, will be guilty of a misdemeanor. Further, following a conviction of
a violation of this section, if it appears to the court that the animal is
still living, the court may, in addition to punishment of the owner, order the
animal control officer to forthwith cause such animal or dog to be humanely
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-12) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-13 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than a law enforcement officer actively
engaged in the performance of their duty, to hunt, shoot, or kill by any means
any wildlife or other animal within the jurisdictional limits of the town. This
section does not limit a person’s right to reasonable protection of himself,
herself, or another from a possible animal attack.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-13) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-14 KILLING OR MISTREATING ANIMALS.
   Any person, other than a law enforcement officer actively engaged in the
performance of his or her duty, who kills or causes to be killed, any animal
which has been registered and licensed as provided by this title, without the
consent of the owner or possessor thereof, or deprives a registered animal of
its collar, or puts a registered tag on the collar of any animal not
registered, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-14) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-15 USING IMPOUNDED OR ABANDONED ANIMALS FOR RESEARCH.
   No animal abandoned and in the custody of the animal control shelter shall
be released, used, sold, or otherwise donated for research purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-15) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-16 INJURED ANIMALS.
   Any person who injures an animal as a result of an accident with a motor
vehicle shall stop and render assistance to the animal as may be necessary and
shall further immediately report such accident and injury to the animal to the
police. Failure to stop and render assistance and to immediately call the
police is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-16) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3-18
§ 6-3-17 NEW RESIDENTS, COMPLIANCE.
   A new resident to the town will be allowed 30 days after residency to comply
with licensing requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-17) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 6-3-18 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Unless specific penalties are provided in the section, any person found
guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties imposed
by the general penalty provisions contained in §
1-4-1. The same shall apply for each separate day of a violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-18) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
DOGS
§ 6-3A-1 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEE.
   (A)   Failure to license. It is unlawful for any person to own any dog over
six months old for which a current license has not been obtained when required
by this subchapter.
   (B)   Requirement; fee. It shall be the duty of every person owning,
keeping, or having possession of any dog within the corporate limits to pay to
the town a license fee for each dog on or before January 1 of each year, which
license shall be effective for the ensuing calendar year.
   (C)   Exceptions to licensing requirement. The provisions of this subchapter
requiring the licensing of dogs shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Nonresidents. Dogs owned by or in custody or under the control of
persons who are not residents of the town, traveling through the town or
temporarily sojourning for a period not to exceed 30 days;
      (2)   Participation in shows or exhibitions. Dogs brought to the town
exclusively for the purpose of entering the same in any dog show or exhibition
and which are actually entered in or kept at such show or exhibition;
      (3)   Aiding physically handicapped persons. Dogs duly and properly
trained to aid or assist physically handicapped persons when such dogs are
actually being used by physically handicapped persons for the purpose of aiding
or assisting such physically handicapped person in going from place to place;
and
      (4)   Dog kennels. A DOG KENNEL means any enclosed lot, building,
structure, enclosure, or enclosed premises whereon or wherein dogs over the age
of six months are kept or maintained for commercial purposes, except a dog
hospital operated by a graduated veterinarian duly licensed by the State Board
of Veterinary Examiners. DOG KENNELS as defined in this division (C)(4) shall
be prohibited.
   (D)   Unlicensed dog prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to own or
keep or have in his or her possession in the town on the premises owned or
occupied by him or her or in any other place any dog for which a license for
the current year has not been obtained as provided in this subchapter.
   (E)   Revocation of license. A license for a dog may be revoked pursuant to
§
6-3-3(F).
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-1) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3A-11
§ 6-3A-2 LEASH REQUIRED IN PUBLIC.
   Any person owning, keeping, or having possession of any dog who allows such
dog to be on the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds of the
town, except when physically restrained with a leash or in the actual control
of its owner or his or her agent, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon proper
complaint and conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-2) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3A-11
§ 6-3A-3 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, keeping, or having possession
of any dog within the corporate limits to have such dog vaccinated with
antirabies vaccine, immunizing such dog against rabies for a period equal in
time to the term of the license required by this subchapter for dogs.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-3) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3A-11
§ 6-3A-4 PAYMENT OF FEES; VACCINATION CERTIFICATE; TAG.
   (A)   Place for payment of fee. The office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer at
the town hall shall be the place where persons owning, keeping, or having
possession of any dogs covered by this subchapter shall pay the license fee
required by the town and produce a certificate by a licensed veterinarian that
the dog has been vaccinated for rabies to immunize it against rabies for a
period equal in time to the term of the license for which applied.
   (B)   Tag and collar. Upon the payment of the license fee and the showing of
evidence that a dog has been vaccinated for rabies, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall provide the applicant for the license with a license tag upon which shall
be a number and the year during which it is issued and worn by such dog cat at
all times when at large.
   (C)   Tag nontransferable. Such tag shall not be transferable from one dog
to another and no refund shall be made on any dog license fee because of death
of the dog or owners leaving the town before the expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-4) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 6-3A-5 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a permanent record of all licenses
issued under the terms of this subchapter, which record shall show the name and
address of all persons being issued a license tag, the number of the license
tag issued, the date, and the amount paid therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-5) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 6-3A-6 LIMIT ON NUMBER KEPT.
   No person, family, or household shall own or maintain more than four each of
dogs and cats (a total of eight animals) at any one time, with the exception of
dogs or cats under the age of six months. Any person having more dogs and cats
than the limits prescribed in this section at the effective date hereof shall
be entitled to keep those animals. However, this exclusion shall only apply for
the lifetime of the dog or cat which is alive at the effective date hereof.
Once that dog or cat dies, it may not be replaced so as to violate this
section.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-6) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007) Penalty, see §
6-3A-11
§ 6-3A-7 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Impoundment of dogs at large. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police or his or her representatives to take up and take charge of all
unlicensed dogs found at large within the town and to take such dogs to the
town dog pound or other suitable place approved by the Town Council, there to
be impounded. Any officer so charged with such duty shall have the right when
in pursuit to enter upon any premises within the town in order to take
possession of such dog.
   (B)   Notification of owner. As soon as possible after any dog has been
delivered to the town dog pound as provided in division (A) above, it shall be
the duty of the Chief of Police or his or her representative to make reasonable
efforts to notify the owner or person who has been keeping or harboring such
dog, in person, by letter, postal card, or telephone.
   (C)   Redemption. The person entitled to the possession of any dog taken up
and delivered to the designated town pound as provided in this subchapter, upon
proper application, within five days from the date of impounding such dog shall
be entitled to have such dog released to him or her, provided such dog is not
known to be affected with rabies (hydrophobia), mange, or other infectious
disease, upon payment of all accrued charges concerning such dog; and in the
case of unlicensed dogs, upon obtaining a license for the current year for such
dog.
   (D)   Destruction of unredeemed dog.
      (1)   Any dog which is not redeemed, adopted, or purchased as set forth
herein shall be handled pursuant to guidelines and/or the rules and regulations
of the facility in which the dog has been impounded. After five calendar days,
the town shall have no duty to redeem, purchase, house, or destroy the dog.
      (2)   In the case of diseased dogs impounded under the terms of this
subchapter, other than those affected or thought to be affected by rabies, it
shall not be necessary to await the expiration of the redemption period before
destroying such dogs.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-7) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 6-3A-8 BARKING OR HOWLING.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor within the limits of
the town any dog which by continuous barking, howling, or yelping disturbs the
quiet of any neighborhood or person.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-8) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3A-11
§ 6-3A-9 BITING BY DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS; RABIES TEST.
   (A)   Apprehension of animal upon complaint. It shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police, when a complaint is received that a dog or other animal has
bitten a person, to take the dog or other animal into custody, if practicable,
and turn it over to a licensed veterinarian, and to make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner.
   (B)   Release of animal to owner’s custody. If satisfactory evidence is
presented to the veterinarian that the dog or animal is immunized for rabies or
the veterinarian is of the opinion that the dog or animal does not have rabies,
the dog or animal may be released to the owner upon such owner paying all
charges incident to picking up, holding, and examining the dog or animal and
signing an agreement to properly secure and muzzle the dog or animal.
   (C)   Disposal of rabid animal. If at such time the dog or animal is found
to have rabies, such dog or animal shall be disposed of in the manner as
prescribed by the Chief of Police and approved by the Town Council; provided,
that all such cases shall be checked and recorded by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-9) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 6-3A-10 TEASING OR ABUSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to tease, abuse, or otherwise molest any dog
or animal under any enclosure or on private property or on the streets of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-10) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
6-3A-11
§ 6-3A-11 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Unless specific penalties are provided in the section, a violation of any
section in this subchapter shall be a general misdemeanor, and upon proper
complaint and conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
1-4-l.
(Prior Code, § 6-3A-11) (Ord. 352, passed 10-4-2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
6-4-1   Weapons and explosives
   
6-4-2   Abandoned iceboxes or refrigerators
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
6-4A-1   Assault and battery
   
6-4A-2   Disorderly conduct
   
6-4A-3   Interference with town employees
   
6-4A-4   Disobeying orders of police or firefighters
Offenses Relating to Property
   
6-4B-1   Littering; state statute adopted
   
6-4B-2   Petit larceny
   
6-4B-3   Damaging public or private property
   
6-4B-4   Criminal entry and criminal trespass
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-4-1 WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Discharging firearms and fireworks. No person, except a duly
constituted law enforcement officer, shall, within the town, fire or discharge
any cannon, gun, fowling piece, pistol, BB gun, air rifle, pellet gun, or gas
propelled weapon or firearm of any description, or fire, explode or set off
anything containing powder or other combustible or explosive material.
Violation of this division (A) is a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished with the penalty in §
1-4-1.
   (B)   Prohibited in establishments serving alcoholic beverages. It is
unlawful for any person not being a peace officer who shall wear or carry any
firearm into a business establishment serving alcoholic beverages. Violation of
this division (B) is a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in
accordance with the penalties in §
1-4-1.
   (C)   Discharging at town landfill. It is unlawful for any person to
discharge a firearm at the town sanitary landfill. Violation of this division
(C) is a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with
the penalties in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-4-2 ABANDONED ICEBOXES OR REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or store any refrigeration unit or icebox in such a
place as to be easily accessible to children, including the town landfill,
without first having made adequate provisions to prevent entry into all
latches, catches, locking devices, or the door thereof, so that escape from the
interior may be had. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be punished in accordance with the penalties in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 6-4A-1 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall in a rude, insolent, or angry manner
touch another.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-4A-2 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Acts described. 
      (1)   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if he or she
wilfully or intentionally is guilty of any of the following:
         (a)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby the person or property of any person is placed in danger of being
injured, destroyed, or damaged;
         (b)   Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous
conduct which would reasonably result in endangering the life, limb, health, or
property of another;
         (c)   Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to
incite a riot;
         (d)   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the
flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way
when ordered to do so by the police or other lawful authority;
         (e)   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer,
where one or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the
immediate vicinity, and public health and safety is immediately threatened;
         (f)   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by police or any
other authorized official of the town;
         (g)   Harasses or annoys another person by:
            1.   Subjecting the other person to offensive physical contact;
            2.   Publicly insulting the other person by abusive words or
gestures in a manner intended and likely to provoke a violent response; or
            3. Publicly insulting the other person by abusive words or gestures
in a manner intended or likely to provoke a violent response.
         (h)   Subjects another to alarm by conveying a telephonic or written
threat to inflict serious physical injury on that person, or to commit a felony
involving the person or property of that person or any member of that person’s
household, which threat reasonably would be expected to cause alarm;
         (i)   Harasses or annoys another by causing the telephone of the other
person to ring without the caller having a legitimate communicative purpose;
and/or
         (j)   Communicates with another person, anonymously or otherwise, by
telephone, mail, or other form of oral, written, or electronic communication,
in a manner likely to cause annoyance or alarm which serves no legitimate
purpose.
      (2)   A person is criminally liable under this section if the person
knowingly permits a telephone under the person’s control to be used in
violation of divisions (A)(1)(i), through (A)(1)(j) above if sufficient proof
is established that the telephone call was either received or made within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the town.
   (B)   Disorderly conduct prohibited. Any person convicted of a violation of
this section shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-2) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-4A-3 INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall interfere in any way with an employee, volunteer, or
individual retained by the town in the performance of his or her work, nor
displace any stakes or landmarks deposited or installed by any employee, nor in
any way molest any tools, instruments, or equipment of any employee, used in
the duties assigned him or her. A conviction of this section is a misdemeanor
punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-4A-4 DISOBEYING ORDERS OF POLICE OR FIREFIGHTERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly disobey the lawful or reasonable
order of any police officer, firefighter, or EMS worker in the discharge of any
lawful act or duty. A conviction of this section is a misdemeanor punishable by
the provisions of §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-4) (Ord. 322, passed 12-2-1999; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
§ 6-4B-1 LITTERING; STATE STATUTE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Statute and amendments adopted.
      (1)   Wyo. Stat. § 6-3-204(a) is hereby adopted by reference for the
town.
      (2)   This section shall incorporate any and all other amendments as made
from time to time to § 6-3-204(a), by the state, and the future amendments are
by this reference specifically incorporated herein.
   (B)   Terms described. References in the statute to “property of another”
shall also apply to property owned by the town. References in the statute to
“vehicles operated on the roads or highways of this state” shall apply only to
roads, highways, streets, and alleys within the town.
   (C)   Repeal of conflicting provisions. Any parts of ordinances in conflict
with this section are hereby repealed, but the remainder of any such ordinances
shall remain in effect.
   (D)   Penalty. The punishment for violation of this section shall be as set
forth in §
1-4-1 for misdemeanor violations.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-1)
§ 6-4B-2 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   Individual. A person who steals, takes and carries, leads, or drives
away property of another having a value of less than $1,000, with intent to
deprive the owner or lawful possessor of the property, is guilty of petit
larceny.
   (B)   Bailee or public servant. A bailee, a PUBLIC SERVANT as defined by
Wyo. Stat. § 6-5-101(a)(vi), or any person entrusted with the control, care, or
custody of any money or other property having a value of less than $1,000 who,
with intent to steal or to deprive the owner of the property, converts the
property to his or her own or another’s use, is guilty of petit larceny.
   (C)   Violation a misdemeanor. Any violation of this section is a
misdemeanor and upon conviction punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
   (D)   Single offense for formerly separate crimes. Conduct denoted petit
larceny in this section constitutes a single offense embracing the separate
crimes formerly known as larceny, larceny by bailee, or embezzlement.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-2) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-4B-3 DAMAGING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall wantonly or carelessly damage or injure any public property
or any private property without the consent of the owner thereof within the
corporate limits of the town. Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor
and upon conviction punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-4B-4 CRIMINAL ENTRY AND CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   Criminal entry.
      (1)   A person is guilty of the general misdemeanor of criminal entry if,
without authority, he or she knowingly enters a building, occupied structure,
vehicle or cargo portion of a truck or trailer, or separately secured or
occupied portion of those enclosures.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this division (A)
that:
         (a)   The entry was made because of a mistake of fact or to preserve
life or property in an emergency;
         (b)   The enclosure was abandoned;
         (c)   The enclosure was at the time open to the public and the person
complied with all lawful conditions imposed on access to or remaining in the
enclosure; or
         (d)   The person reasonably believed that the owner of the enclosure,
or other person empowered to license access to the enclosure, would have
authorized him or her to enter.
   (B)   Criminal trespass. A person is guilty of the general misdemeanor of
criminal trespass if he or she enters or remains on or in the land or premises
of another person, knowing he or she is not authorized to do so, or after being
notified to depart or to not trespass. For purposes of this division (B),
notice is given by:
      (1)   Personal communication to the person by the owner or occupant, or
his or her agent, or by a peace officer;
      (2)   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders; or
      (3)   Having the personal property fenced or otherwise identified as
private property.
   (C)   Penalty. Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and upon
conviction punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-4) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
CHAPTER 5: MINORS
Section
   
6-5-1   Curfew
   
6-5-2   Tobacco products regulated
§ 6-5-1 CURFEW.
   (A)   Age and hour restrictions. Any minor under the age of 16 years who is
found on or in any highway, street, sidewalk, alley, thoroughfare, barroom,
pool hall, club theater, bowling alley, park, or any other public place, or
upon private property without consent of the owner, within the limits of the
town between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless exempted under
division (B) below.
   (B)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Penalty. Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and upon
conviction punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 6-5-2 TOBACCO PRODUCTS REGULATED.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, TOBACCO PRODUCTS means any
substance containing tobacco, including but not limited to: cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or dipping
tobacco.
   (B)   Prohibited sale or delivery.
      (1)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away, or deliver tobacco
products to any person under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and upon conviction
is punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under division (B)(1)
above that:
         (a)   In the case of a sale, offer for sale, giving away, or delivery,
the person who sold, offered to sell, gave away, or delivered the tobacco
product was presented with, and reasonably relied upon, an identification card
which identified the person buying or receiving the tobacco product as being 21
years of age or older; or
         (b)   The tobacco product was given or delivered to the person under
21 years of age by his or her parent or guardian, and the tobacco product was
given or delivered to the person for use in the privacy of his or her parent’s
or guardian’s home or under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian.
   (C)   Purchase by minors prohibited.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase tobacco
products, or misrepresent his or her identity or age, or use any false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
      (2)   Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and upon conviction
punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
   (D)   Possession or use by minors prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess
or use any tobacco products.
      (2)   Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and upon conviction
punishable by the provisions of §
1-4-1.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under division (D)(1)
above that the defendant possessed or used the tobacco product(s) in the home
of, or under the direct supervision of, his or her parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 318, passed 11-20-1997; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
TITLE 7: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1: STATE TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
7-1-1   Adoption of Uniform Traffic Code
   
7-1-2   Motor vehicle registration
   
7-1-3   Automobile liability insurance required; exemption
   
7-1-4   Driving under the influence; statute adopted
   
7-1-5   Through highways designated
   
7-1-6   Truck routes designated
   
7-1-7   Engine compression brake use prohibited
   
7-1-8   Penalty
§ 7-1-1 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by this reference, for the purpose of regulating
traffic on the streets and highways of the town, Wyo. Statutes §§ 31-5-101
through 31-5-1601, as amended, known as the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on
Highways of the State.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 7-1-2 MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the town, unless that motor
vehicle shall be properly registered in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-1-8
§ 7-1-3 AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Insurance required; exception. 
      (1)   No owner or operator of a motor vehicle required to be licensed
shall operate or permit the operation of the vehicle without having in full
force and effect an automobile liability policy as provided by Wyo. Stat. § 31-
9-405 or bond in amounts provided by Wyo. Stat. § 31-9-102(a)(xi).
      (2)   Any person violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   This section does not apply to self-insurers pursuant to Wyo. Stat.
§ 31-9-414.
   (B)   Statute amendments adopted. This section shall incorporate any and all
other amendments as made from time to time to the above referenced statutes by
the state, and said future amendments are by this reference specifically
incorporated in this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-1-8
§ 7-1-4 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; STATUTE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Wyo. Stat. § 31-5-233, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference for
the town.
   (B)   The punishments for violation of this section shall be as set forth in
Wyo. Stat. § 31-5-233, as amended.
   (C)   This section shall incorporate any and all other amendments as made
from time to time to Wyo. Stat. § 31-5-233, and the future amendments are by
this reference specifically incorporated.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-1-8
§ 7-1-5 THROUGH HIGHWAYS DESIGNATED.
   For the purpose of this title, the following streets and/or highways in the
town are declared as through highway and/or through streets: Lincoln Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 7-1-6 TRUCK ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term COMMERCIAL MOTOR
VEHICLE CARRIER shall be deemed to mean any motor vehicle designed or used for
the actual transportation of goods or substances for hire.
   (B)   Designation. In order to expedite the movement of commercial motor
carrier traffic within and through the town and to eliminate traffic hazards
and obstructions resulting from the unrestricted use of the streets of the town
by such motor carriers, the following streets and areas are hereby designated
and established as truck routes to be used by commercial motor carriers passing
through the town, except when making local collections or deliveries:
      (1)   Lincoln Street;
      (2)   North 3rd Street between Lincoln Avenue and Madison Avenue;
      (3)   South 9th Street to Union Avenue; and
      (4)   12th Street.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-1-8
§ 7-1-7 ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE USE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to use engine compression brakes (jake brakes)
within the jurisdictional limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) (Ord. 380, passed 6-15-2017)
§ 7-1-8 PENALTY.
   Unless specific penalties are provided within this chapter, any person found
guilty of a violation set forth herein shall be subject to the general penalty
set forth in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8) (Ord. 380, passed 6-15-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
CHAPTER 2: DRIVERS’ LICENSES
Section
   
7-2-1   Driver’s license required
   
7-2-2   Permitting violations
   
7-2-3   Driving while license suspended or revoked
   
7-2-4   Unlawful use of driver’s license
   
7-2-5   Immediate possession of license required
   
7-2-6   Penalty
§ 7-2-1 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Driving vehicle. No person, unless exempt under the laws of the state,
shall drive, steer, or exercise any degree of physical control of any motor
vehicle upon any street, alley, or road in the town unless the person has a
valid driver’s license for the type or class of vehicle being driven.
   (B)   Towing vehicle. No person, unless exempt under the laws of the state,
shall steer or exercise any degree of physical control of a vehicle being towed
by a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or road in the town unless the
person has a valid driver’s license for the type or class of vehicle being
towed.
   (C)   Possession of one license. No person shall be in possession of more
than one valid driver’s license at a time.
   (D)   License conditions or restrictions. No person shall operate a motor
vehicle beyond or outside any conditions or restrictions which have been
applied to a valid driver’s license by the licensing authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-2-6
§ 7-2-2 PERMITTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlicensed drivers. No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a
motor vehicle owned by him or her or under his or her control to be driven or
towed upon any street or alley within the town by any person who is not
licensed for the type and class of vehicles to be driven or is in violation of
any of the provisions of the State Driver’s License Act.
   (B)   Minors. No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor under the
age of 18 years to drive a motor vehicle upon any street or alley within the
town when the minor is not properly licensed under the provisions of the State
Driver’s License Act.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-2-6
§ 7-2-3 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle on any street or
alley within the town at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
canceled, suspended, or revoked by any authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-2-6
§ 7-2-4 UNLAWFUL USE OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   It is an unlawful use of a driver’s license and a violation of this title
for any person to:
   (A)   Display, or permit to be displayed, or have possession of any
canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, or fraudulently altered driver’s
license;
   (B)   Lend a driver’s license to any other person, or knowingly permit its
use by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s license not issued to
such person; or
   (D)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s license issued to such person.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-2-6
§ 7-2-5 IMMEDIATE POSSESSION OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Display defined. For the purposes of this section, DISPLAY means the
manual surrender of his or her license certificate into the hands of the
demanding officer for inspection thereof. After such examination, the officer
shall return the license certificate to the licensee.
   (B)   Immediate possession. Every person shall have his or her driver’s
license in his or her immediate possession at all times when operating a motor
vehicle and shall display the license upon demand of any judicial officer,
Municipal Court Judge, or any officer or agent of the state motor vehicle
division, or any police officer of the state, county, or municipality.
   (C)   Avoiding conviction. No person charged with violating this section
shall be convicted if he or she produces in court a driver’s license previously
issued to him or her and valid at the time of the issuance of the citation.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-2-6
§ 7-2-6 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of a violation set forth herein shall be subject to
the general penalty set forth in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
CHAPTER 3: SPEED LIMITS
Section
   
7-3-1   State speed laws applicable
   
7-3-2   Regulation by signals
   
7-3-3   Reasonable and prudent speed
   
7-3-4   Special hazards
   
7-3-5   Penalty
§ 7-3-1 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the town, except as set forth in this chapter. The town
may change the speed limit of a specified street or certain area if it
determines that certain speed regulations should be applicable. It shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so
declared by ordinance or state law when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-3-5
§ 7-3-2 REGULATION BY SIGNALS.
   The Town Council is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic signals so
as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds
slightly at variance from the speed otherwise applicable within the district or
at intersections, and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 7-3-3 REASONABLE AND PRUDENT SPEED.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall be so controlled
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other
conveyance on or entering the street in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-3-5
§ 7-3-4 SPECIAL HAZARDS.
   (A)   Limit specified. Except when a special hazard exists that requires
slower speed for compliance with division (B) below, the limits specified in
this division (A), or established as authorized in this chapter, shall be
maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a street at a
speed in excess of the maximum limits:
      (1)   Fifteen mph when passing a school building, or the grounds thereof,
or a school crossing, during school recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during opening or closing hours; and provided, that the presence
of the school building, ground thereof, or school crossing is indicated plainly
by signs or signals conforming to the provisions thereof;
      (2)   Thirty mph upon any through highway, excepting in school zones, or
unless otherwise posted; and
      (3)   All other streets within the town limits, 15 mph unless otherwise
posted.
   (B)   Reduced speed. The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the
requirements of division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-3-5
§ 7-3-5 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor in the town and subject
to the general penalty in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
CHAPTER 4: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-4-1   Method of parking, parallel or angle
   
7-4-2   Prohibited in specified places
   
7-4-3   Obstructing traffic
   
7-4-4   Alleys
   
7-4-5   Certain purposes
   
7-4-6   Adjacent to schools
   
7-4-7   Narrow streets
   
7-4-8   One-way streets
   
7-4-9   Near hazardous or congested places
   
7-4-10   Outside business or residential districts
   
7-4-11   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
7-4-12   Storage of vehicle in public space
   
7-4-13   Unauthorized parking
   
7-4-14   Handicapped parking
   
7-4-15   Mobile homes and trailer coaches
   
7-4-16   Truck parking
   
7-4-17   Penalty
§ 7-4-1 METHOD OF PARKING, PARALLEL OR ANGLE.
   (A)   Parallel. No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other
than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement, and with the wheels of the vehicle nearest the curb line
within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Angle. The Town Council shall determine upon what streets angle
parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but the angle
parking shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within the
town unless the State Highway Commission has determined that the roadway is of
sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free
movement of traffic. On those streets which have been signed or marked by the
Council for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than
at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-2 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law, or the directions of a police officer, or other official traffic
control device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (2)   On a crosswalk;
      (3)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or marking;
      (4)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic; or
      (5)   On any railroad tracks.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (1)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (2)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, except in a
business district;
      (3)   Within ten feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (4)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
   (C)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
      (2)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (D)   No vehicle, bus, motor home, trailer, camper, boat, other recreational
vehicle, or trailer of any type shall be parked upon any street or roadway
within 15 feet of the intersection of that street or roadway with any other
street or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 386, passed 6-7-2018) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-3 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-4 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for
the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-5 CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of
greasing or repairing
the vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-6 ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when
such parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or create a
hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized in this chapter, no person shall park a vehicle in any
such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-7 NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet, or upon
one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway
does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized in this chapter, no person shall park a vehicle upon any
such street in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-8 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The Town Council is authorized to erect signs upon the left hand side of any
one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When such signs
are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such left hand side
in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-9 NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs, places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing,
or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized in this chapter, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in
any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-10 OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Prohibition. 
      (1)   No person shall stop, park, or leave any vehicle, whether attended
or not, on the paved or main traveled part of the street or highway outside of
a business or residential district, when it is practicable to stop, park, or so
leave the vehicle off such part of the street or highway.
      (2)   In every event, an unobstructed width of the street or highway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of the stopped vehicles shall be available for a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon the street or highway.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle
which is disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a street or
highway in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-10) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-11 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-11) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
§ 7-4-12 STORAGE OF VEHICLE IN PUBLIC SPACE.
   No owner, manager, or employee of any garage, salesroom, shop, or other
place of business shall permit any vehicle, whether it is stock in trade or
left for safekeeping, repair, or storage, to be or remain in or upon any alley,
street, or sidewalk, or in any space between the street and the property line
adjacent to, in front of, or beside any premises in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-12) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-13 UNAUTHORIZED PARKING.
   (A)   On private property. No operator of a motor vehicle shall permit the
vehicle to stand or be parked or be driven upon any private property without
the express consent of the owner or lessee of the private property. The Police
Department is authorized to cause any vehicle parked in violation of this
division (A) to be removed from the private property at the expense of the
registered owner or operator of the vehicle.
   (B)   In front of property of another. It is unlawful for any person to park
any vehicle for a continuous period of more than 24 hours on a street within
the town in front of property belonging to or occupied by another person
without the express consent of the owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-13) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-14 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   It is unlawful for anyone to park a motor vehicle in any area designated or
approved for handicapped parking only, unless such person has clearly displayed
on such vehicle a handicapped window identification sticker as authorized by
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-14) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-15 MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILER COACHES.
   (A)   Parking of mobile homes prohibited.
      (1)   No mobile home shall be parked on any street, alley, or lot within
the town for a period in excess of two hours, except in the zones where
authorized by the zoning title of this code, as amended.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this division (A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to general penalty.
   (B)   Parking of trailer coaches.
      (1)   The term TRAILER COACH, as used in this division (B), shall mean
any vehicle used or so constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance
upon the public streets or highways and constructed in such a manner as will
permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more
persons.
      (2)   Other than in areas specifically designated by the town, no person
shall occupy or allow occupancy of any trailer coach parked on any public
street, alley, park, or way of the town.
      (3)   No person shall allow occupancy of any trailer coach on private
property for more than 14 consecutive days or more than a total of 30 days in
any one calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-15) (Ord. 2018-387, passed 6-7-2018) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-16 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   General restrictions.
      (1)   Every truck with a body past the cab longer than nine feet or wider
than eight feet, or with a chassis of more than 137 inch wheel base shall not
park on any residential street, or in the central business district on any
street. For purposes of this division (A), the term BODY shall mean that
portion of a truck which extends to the rear of the cab of the truck.
      (2)   Any person violating the terms of this division (A) shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished in accordance with the general penalty
provisions found in §
1-4-1.
   (B)   Trucks carrying explosive commodities. No truck or transport, either
empty or loaded, used for transporting crude oil or any of its derivatives, or
any other explosive substance shall be parked in an area within the limits of
the town, except on North 3rd Street from Madison Avenue to Lincoln Avenue and
on the Plaza, which is that street immediately north of the Union Pacific Depot
and running from Lincoln Avenue to Union Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-16) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-4-17
§ 7-4-17 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor subject to the penalty
provisions in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-17) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
CHAPTER 5: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
7-5-1   Snowmobile defined
   
7-5-2   Registration required
   
7-5-3   Valid driver’s or chauffeur’s license required
   
7-5-4   Operation and equipment
   
7-5-5   Towing regulations
   
7-5-6   Visibility requirements
   
7-5-7   Inspection of snowmobiles
   
7-5-8   Penalties
§ 7-5-1 SNOWMOBILE DEFINED.
   A SNOWMOBILE is defined as a mechanically driven vehicle, the motive force
of which is applied through a revolving track, guided by skis, or differential
track operation. No SNOWMOBILE shall be operated within the incorporated limits
of the town except upon compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-2 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No snowmobile shall be operated without a proper and valid registration from
the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-3 VALID DRIVER’S OR CHAUFFEUR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No snowmobile shall be operated unless the driver thereof has in his or her
possession a valid driver’s or chauffeur’s license issued under the motor
vehicle laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-4 OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Laws governing operation, generally.
      (1)   Every operator of snowmobiles shall observe all ordinances of the
town and laws of the state pertaining to operation of vehicles; and, in
addition, shall yield the right-of-way to motor vehicles.
      (2)   No snowmobile shall be operated within the town prior to 30 minutes
before sunrise or after 30 minutes after sunset.
   (B)   Operation over town roadways.
      (1)   Generally. Snowmobiles may operate over town roadways (except as
noted in division (B)(2) below) when the same shall be snow covered or snow
packed only. Snowmobiles shall not be permitted to operate on the sidewalks or
in town parks.
      (2)   Additional restrictions. Snowmobiles may be operated upon streets
which are state highways within the town limits only under the following
additional restrictions.
         (a)   Snowmobiles may be operated within the right-of-way, but not on
the main traveled roadway except as provided hereafter.
         (b)   Crossings of state highways shall be made at right angles to the
roadway or as nearly so as practicable; but in any case, yielding the right-of-
way to all traffic in the main traveled roadway.
         (c)   Snowmobiles may be operated on the main traveled highway when
the highway is closed to wheeled vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Equipment and weight.
      (1)   Damaging roadway, weight limit. No snowmobile shall be operated
within the incorporated limits of the town which are propeller driven, having
racks capable of damaging road surfaces, or the gross weight thereof exceeds
1,750 pounds.
      (2)   Muffler. Every snowmobile shall be at all times equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise and annoying smoke.
      (3)   Brakes. Every snowmobile shall be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle.
   (D)   Driving in unsafe condition. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
drive or move, or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or
moved, on any roadway any snowmobile or combination of vehicles which is in
such unsafe condition as to endanger any persons or property, or which does not
contain those parts or is not at all times equipped with such equipment in
proper condition and adjustment as required by this chapter, or which is
equipped in any manner in violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-5 TOWING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No snowmobile shall pull any skier, sled, or other combination vehicle
by rope or flexible coupling.
   (B)   All sleighs or cutters shall be safely and securely affixed to the
snowmobile, by direct coupling, solid tongue, or triangular shaped tow bar not
to exceed 40 inches in length, being securely affixed to two points on the
sleigh or cutter, with one flexible joint at the center of the snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-6 VISIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All snowmobiles shall exhibit a red/orange flag hung or suspended five feet
above ground level so that the entire area thereof is visible from all
directions while on any roadway, and display at least one headlight and one
taillight which shall be turned on at all times that the vehicle is in use.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-7 INSPECTION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   The town police, members of the State Highway Patrol, and county
officials may at any time, upon reasonable cause to believe that a snowmobile
is unsafe or not equipped as required by this chapter, or that its equipment is
not in proper adjustment or repair, require the driver of such vehicle to stop
and submit such vehicle to an inspection and test with reference thereto as may
be appropriate.
   (B)   A person shall operate any vehicle after receiving notice with
reference thereto as above provided except as may be necessary to return such
vehicle to the residence or place of business of the
owner or driver or to a garage, until the vehicle and its equipment have been
placed in proper repair and adjustment and otherwise made to conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008) Penalty, see §
7-5-8
§ 7-5-8 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates one or more of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished in accordance with the general penalty provisions of §
1-4-1, and any person so convicted shall lose his or her right to operate
snowmobile within the town for a period of one year.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8) (Ord. 354, passed 4-3-2008)
CHAPTER 6: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
 
Street           Length                              Parking Designation
                 From the corner of Lincoln Avenue
Lincoln Avenue   and North 5th Street and continuing Loading and unloading only
                 west for 60 feet
                 The west side of the street, from
North 5th Street the corner of Lincoln Avenue and    Handicapped parking
                 continuing north for 44 feet
                 The west side of the street,
                 beginning after the first 44 feet
North 5th Street from the corner of Lincoln Avenue   15-minute parking
                 and continuing north for the next
                 120 feet
 
(Res. 2022-06, passed 8-18-2022; Res. 2022-07, passed 8-18-2022)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
8-1-1   Standard Specifications for Public Works adopted
   
8-1-2   Maintaining sidewalks and alleys
§ 8-1-1 STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC WORKS ADOPTED.
   There is adopted for the town municipal capital construction and repair
projects the “Wyoming Public Works Standard Specifications,” 2021 edition.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 8-1-2 MAINTAINING SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Storage of personal property or waste material. No person shall store,
or cause to be stored, any personal property or waste material on any public
right-of-way within the town or cause any obstruction upon any sidewalk or in
any alley within the town.
   (B)   Responsibility for cleanliness.
      (1)   Persons owning or occupying places of business which face on
municipal sidewalks and strips or parkways between streets and sidewalks shall
be responsible for keeping those sidewalks and strips free of litter and junk.
      (2)   Cleanliness of the alleyways is the responsibility of the
contiguous property owners.
   (C)   Discarding of litter or junk. It is unlawful to sweep or push litter
or junk from sidewalks and strips or parkways into streets. Sidewalk and strip
or parkway sweepings must be picked up and put into household or commercial
solid waste containers.
   (D)   Building materials. Rock, stone, brick, concrete, dirt, and other
building materials or mineral wastes shall not be permitted to accumulate in
alleyways or at the curb. Such material must be stored on private property in a
safe manner and in such a way as to prevent rodent harborage.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 357, passed 2-19-2009)
CHAPTER 2: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
8-2-1   Responsibility for costs
   
8-2-2   Time period permitted for repair, extension, and penalty
   
8-2-3   Wye or tee fitting specifications
   
8-2-4   Sewer installation guidelines
   
8-2-5   Specifications for sewer laterals
   
8-2-6   Classification of backfill
   
8-2-7   Contractors, responsibilities
   
8-2-8   Backfilling, certification required
   
8-2-9   Responsibility for street restoration
   
8-2-10   Notification of town
   
8-2-11   Inspection
   
8-2-12   Barricades
   
8-2-13   Emergency, suspension of provisions
   
8-2-14   Penalty
§ 8-2-1 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Excavation costs borne by town. The town shall bear the costs of
restoring any street, alley, or curb to the condition it was prior to the cut
or cuts necessitated by repair or installation of sewer mains not covered by
the land development provisions in Title 12.
   (B)   Backfill and restoration costs. The landowner or other person or
corporation who cuts a street, alley, or curb or pays another person or
corporation to cut the same shall bear the cost of properly backfilling the
trench and certification thereof as set forth in §§
8-2-6 and
8-2-8.
   (C)   Responsibility for restoration costs, general. Any utility company, or
other person not otherwise covered herein, finding it necessary to make any
street cut, alley cut, curb cut, or any other cut on town property for any
purpose, shall be responsible for restoring the town property to at least as
good condition as it was prior to the cut, including the costs of all pavement,
backfilling, and certification set forth in §§
8-2-6 and
8-2-8.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 2018-382, passed 3-15-2018)
§ 8-2-2 TIME PERIOD PERMITTED FOR REPAIR, EXTENSION, AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Time period; extension. Street cuts, alley cuts, or curb cuts shall be
repaired within 12 months of the cut. Extensions may be permitted at the
discretion of the Town Council.
   (B)   Failure to repair, penalty.
      (1)   If the repair is not completed within the time allowed, the person
or entity responsible for the disruption of the street, alley, or curb shall be
charged with a misdemeanor and shall be fined $100.
      (2)   Each day that the responsible party fails to repair the street,
alley, or curb is a separate violation.
      (3)   If a property owner fails to comply with the restoration of the
street, alley, or curb within ten days after either the 12-month time period or
Town Council approved extension lapses, then the Town Council or its designee
may cause the street, alley, or curb to be restored and shall assess the
expense thereof against the property owner(s) of record.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 384, passed 4-5-2018) Penalty, see §
8-2-14
§ 8-2-3 WYE OR TEE FITTING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Wye or tee fitting shall be installed in the main line sewer for
connection of surface lines. Wye or tee fittings shall be of material and
design and specifications acceptable to the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Joining of service pipe to wye or tee branches of main line pipe other
than PVC shall be accomplished with special joint adapters manufactured
specifically for joining the two different types of pipe.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 8-2-4 SEWER INSTALLATION GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Proper tools and equipment satisfactory to the town shall be used for
the safe and convenient progress of sewer installation. Whole pipe and fitting
shall be carefully lowered into trench in such a manner as to prevent damage to
pipe materials and protective coatings and linings.
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall materials be dropped or dumped into the
trench. Every precaution shall be taken to prevent foreign material from
entering the pipe while it is being installed.
   (C)   The pipe shall be clean and all sand, gravel, concrete, and cement
grout that has entered the lines in the process of construction shall be
removed.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) Penalty, see §
8-2-14
§ 8-2-5 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SEWER LATERALS.
   The sewer laterals shall be installed within one-fourth inch for grade and
shall not be off more than one-half inch for alignment as certified by a
licensed professional civil engineer, journeyman, plumber, certified town
operator, or the Town Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 8-2-6 CLASSIFICATION OF BACKFILL.
   (A)   Backfill materials. All backfill materials used after any street cut
shall be free from cinders, ashes, refuse, organic and frozen material,
boulders, or other materials that are unsuitable. From one foot above the top
of pipe to six inches below the ground surface, or to the subgrade elevation
for streets or paved surfaces, material containing stones up to eight inches in
the greatest dimension may be used. Trench backfill from the top of the pipe to
ground surface or to the subgrade of street surfacing is separated into two
classifications. Type A trench backfill refers to compacted backfill in streets
or paved areas, while type B backfill is designed for alleys, fields, borrow
pits, unimproved streets, or other unsurfaced areas where special compaction of
the trench backfill is not required. Location of the types of backfill required
shall be as shown on the plans or as designated in the special provisions.
   (B)   Type A trench backfill. Materials used for bedding and backfill should
be carefully deposited in layers suitable to the equipment used for compaction,
wetted to optimum moisture content and compacted to at least the density of the
surrounding material. The upper layer forming the subgrade for pavement which
is to be replaced shall be compacted to a density of at least 90% of maximum
standard proctor density, as determined by AASHTO designation T-180 method A or
C. Compaction by flooding will only be permitted by approval of the Town
Engineer. Wherever the trenches have not been properly filled, or if settlement
occurs, they shall be reopened to the depth required for proper compaction and
refilled and recompacted.
   (C)   Type B trench backfill. Materials used for type B trench backfill
shall not require special compaction. However, the material shall be placed in
layers to achieve a density approximately equal to the density of the existing
soil. The person doing the work may be required to mound excess earth over the
top of the trench so that depression will not be formed after the trench
settles. In cultivated areas, the stripped topsoil shall be placed uniformly
over the backfilled trench. The topsoil shall not be compacted but shall be
graded to provide a smooth surface conforming to the adjoining ground surface.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 8-2-7 CONTRACTORS, RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The contractor performing the work shall be responsible for enforcing safety
and maintaining safe working conditions in all trenching, shoring, and
backfilling to conform to OSHA regulations. The contractor shall employ
qualified, properly trained personnel to design shoring, perform safety
inspection of the trenches, and supervise other operations involving safety
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 8-2-8 BACKFILLING, CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any person or entity having responsibility for the street cut as set forth
in this chapter shall, at the time of the completion of any backfilling
required by this chapter, provide certification by a licensed professional
civil engineer, journeyman plumber, certified town operator, or the Town
Building Inspector, that the backfilling meets the specifications set forth in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8)
§ 8-2-9 RESPONSIBILITY FOR STREET RESTORATION.
   Any private individual, contractor, utility, company, agency, or any person
representing a contractor, utility, company, or agency, who has disturbed, or
is planning to disturb (dig across, dig holes, dig alongside, dig under, and
the like) the streets of the town for any reason, shall be totally responsible
for restoring the street to at least as good condition as it was prior to the
disruption, including pavement, concrete, and backfill to be compacted to 98%
of the pre-existing condition, as determined by the Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9) (Ord. 2018-383, passed 3-15-2018)
§ 8-2-10 NOTIFICATION OF TOWN.
   Any person or company or agency planning to disturb the street shall notify
the Town Clerk-Treasurer at least 24 hours in advance of the disturbance.
Included in this notification shall be:
   (A)   Who shall take responsibility for disturbance;
   (B)   Reason for disturbance;
   (C)   Location of disturbance;
   (D)   Length of time the street will be disturbed; and
   (E)   Who is doing the actual restoration.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 8-2-11 INSPECTION.
   At the completion of the restoration, the Town Engineer or other town
designee shall inspect the work and sign a release of responsibility if the
work is done to his or her satisfaction. The original shall be kept on file at
the Town Hall and a copy will be given to the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11)
§ 8-2-12 BARRICADES.
   Any person, company, utility, or agency performing work upon the streets of
the town shall provide adequate barricades and any other protection as may be
necessary when the project or work presents a hazard to motorists or
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12)
§ 8-2-13 EMERGENCY, SUSPENSION OF PROVISIONS.
   Regulations of this chapter will be suspended in the event an emergency
exists, i.e., broken line, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13)
§ 8-2-14 PENALTY.
   Unless specific penalties are provided in this chapter, any violation of
this chapter shall be a misdemeanor subject to general penalty provisions in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-14) (Ord. 385, passed 4-5-2018)
CHAPTER 3: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
8-3-1   Definitions
   
8-3-2   Public Works Director, powers and duties
   
8-3-3   Tree Advisory Board
   
8-3-4   Protection of public trees
   
8-3-5   Tree topping
   
8-3-6   Maintenance of street trees
   
8-3-7   Hazardous trees, shrubs, and woody vegetation
   
8-3-8   Restitution
§ 8-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
The word SHALL is mandatory and not merely directory.
   BOARD. The town’s Tree Advisory Board.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council.
   PARK TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes, hedges, and all other woody vegetation on
land in public parks, public cemeteries, and all areas owned by the town, or
other areas to which the public has free access as a park.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
entity of any nature.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any dangerous or unsafe tree or portions thereof on
streets, within any public right-of-way, in parks, on other public places or
posing a hazard thereto.
   STREET TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes, hedges, and all other woody vegetation
on land lying between property lines within all public rights-of-way within the
town.
   TOWN. The Town of Sinclair, Wyoming.
   TREE TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 8-3-2 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Manage and maintain trees. This chapter provides authority over all
trees, shrubs, hedges, and other ornamental plants located within the street
rights-of-way, parks, and public places of the town. The Public Works Director
or any person so designated by the town with this authority, shall manage and
maintain trees within the town in the following manner:
      (1)   Promulgate standards and specifications governing the planting,
pruning, and removal of trees on the street rights-of-way, parks, and public
areas of the town;
      (2)   Require that property owners maintain trees, shrubs, hedges, and
other ornamental plants on the public right-of-way abutting their property line
so they do not pose a hazard or public nuisance to pedestrian or vehicular
traffic; and
      (3)   During or following an emergency created by human or natural
phenomenon, the town may take all necessary steps to remove trees or tree parts
or residue that might impede traffic movement or endanger persons or property,
without being responsible for continued maintenance or care.
   (B)   Regulate planting, pruning, and removal. The Public Works Director or
the town’s designee, shall direct, regulate and control the planting, pruning,
and removal of all street and park trees.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 8-3-3 TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   There is established a Tree Advisory Board under Title 2, Ch. 1. Under §
2-1-6, the duties of the Board in relation to trees, shrubs, and other plants
within public property of the town are defined.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 8-3-4 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   Excavations near trees. 
      (1)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any
drive within a radius of eight feet from any street or park tree without first
obtaining written permission from the Public Works Director or the town’s
designee.
      (2)   All trees on any public property near any excavation or
construction of any building, structure, or street work shall be guarded with a
good substantial fence, frame, or box of a size to be designated by the Public
Works Director or the town’s designee in accordance with the size, age, and
species of the tree or trees in question. All building material, soil, and
other debris shall be kept outside the barrier, except where otherwise
specified by the town in writing.
   (B)   Deposits or storage of materials. No person shall deposit, place,
store, or maintain upon any park, or public place of the town, any stone,
brick, sand, concrete, or other materials which may impede the free passage of
air, water, and nutrients to the roots of any tree growing therein, except by
written permit from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
§ 8-3-5 TREE TOPPING.
   It is unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or town department
to top any street trees, park trees, or other trees on public property. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempted from this section at the determination of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
§ 8-3-6 MAINTENANCE OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   Responsibility for maintenance. All trees and shrubs planted, grown,
cultivated, or maintained or permitted to grow on town right-of-way between any
property line and the traveled street adjacent thereto shall be kept,
maintained, and trimmed by the owner or occupant of the adjacent property so as
not to obstruct traffic, interfere with the visibility of traffic or
pedestrians, or cause any unsafe condition for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Limiting visibility. No tree or shrub on private property shall be
kept, planted, grown, maintained, or permitted to remain in such a condition as
to limit the visibility or in any other manner constitute a danger, hazard, or
public nuisance to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Trimming above sidewalk or street. The lowest branch of any tree shall
not be less than eight feet above the ground where the same extends over a
sidewalk. Any trees where limbs or branches extend over the streets, driveways,
or any place where traffic passes beneath shall be trimmed to at least 13 feet
above the surface of the street or alley.
   (D)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street trees hence removed shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the existing ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
§ 8-3-7 HAZARDOUS TREES, SHRUBS, AND WOODY VEGETATION.
   (A)   Abatement; owner’s duty. It shall be the duty of all property owners
within the town to keep the property owned by them, together with the adjacent
parkway between the sidewalk and the traveled portion of any street or public
highway, hereby referred to as the street right-of-way, free and clear of any
live, diseased or dead tree, shrub, overhanging bough, hedge, which, in its
then condition, reasonably constitutes a hazard to traffic or danger to life,
limb, or property, and the presence of it upon such property or parkway is
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Removal order.
      (1)   Delivery. The Town Council may require the owner of any property
whereupon, or upon whose adjoining right-of-way is situated, any such live,
diseased, or dead tree, shrub, overhanging bough, or hedge, to remove the same
within a reasonable time, which time shall be fixed by the Town Council in a
written order delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner of record of the property as it appears on the county tax rolls.
      (2)   Appeal.
         (a)   A request for a hearing upon the removal order shall be made in
writing and delivered to the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days from the date
the removal order is sent to the property owner. Such request shall specify the
removal order for which the request is made, the requesting party’s name,
address, phone number, and the nature of the interest held by the requesting
party.
         (b)   In the event of a removal order for which notice has been given,
and no hearing is requested, the Town Council may proceed with removal pursuant
to division (C) below. If a proper request for hearing is filed, removal shall
only proceed upon an order of the Municipal Court or withdrawal of the request
for hearing.
         (c)   In the event a request for hearing is filed and provided, a
hearing shall be held before the Municipal Court or such other individual or
group as designated by the Town Council to act as hearing examiner. The purpose
of the hearing shall be to decide whether the removal order is proper and for
taking such further action as is authorized under this chapter. Notice of the
time, place, and hour of the hearing shall be sent at least 30 days in advance
of the hearing to all known parties.
         (d)   At such hearing, all parties shall be afforded an opportunity to
present evidence, to cross-examine and present argument; provided, that all
persons testifying shall be sworn; irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitious evidence shall be excluded; and the decision of the Municipal Court
Judge or hearing examiner shall be based upon the type of evidence commonly
relied upon by the Municipal Court.
         (e)   At or after such hearing, and in the event of confirmation that
the removal order is appropriate, the Municipal Judge or the hearing examiner,
as the case may be, may order the Mayor and/or his or her employees or agents
to remove the tree. In the event the recommendation of removal is confirmed,
administrative costs may also be assessed at the hearing. If it is found that
the revocation or cancellation is not appropriate, removal authority shall be
denied and costs shall not be assessed.
         (f)   Appeals from the Municipal Court or hearing examiner may be made
to the County District Court, second judicial district, under the rules of
appellate procedure as found in the state court rules in effect at that time.
         (g)   In the event a request for hearing, as provided, is not timely
filed, the right to a hearing shall be considered to have been waived.
   (C)   Failure to remove, penalty.
      (1)   If the property owner fails to comply with the final order within
ten days after such appeal has been determined, or if no appeal is taken within
15 days after the mailing of the order, then the Town Council or its designee
may cause such live, diseased, or dead tree, shrub, overhanging bough, or hedge
to be removed or destroyed and shall assess the expense thereof against the
property owner of record.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the final order shall be a general
misdemeanor unless specific penalties are provided in the section. Each day
that the property owner fails to comply with the final order is a separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
§ 8-3-8 RESTITUTION.
   Any person found liable for injuring or destroying a street or park tree
shall be liable for the replacement cost of that tree. The cost shall be
determined by the Town Council or the Town Council’s designee.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) (Ord. 359, passed 1-7-2010) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
CHAPTER 4: PARK USE
Section
   
8-4-1   Definitions
   
8-4-2   Vehicles within park boundaries
   
8-4-3   Damaging property
   
8-4-4   Violation a misdemeanor
   
8-4-5   Hours of public use
§ 8-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOUNDARY. The designated park area, as per current established and surveyed
area.
   OFFICER. The Chief of Police or, in his or her absence, the duly designated
and acting representative.
   PARKING AREA. The designated parking areas as established on the grounds.   
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance, motorized or self-propelled, either wheeled or
tracked.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
§ 8-4-2 VEHICLES WITHIN PARK BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Traffic prohibited; exception. There will be absolutely no vehicular
traffic within the boundaries of the park, except as authorized by the Town
Council or the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Enforcement. Any police officer of the town shall have the right and
power to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   Citation, fine, or vehicle impoundment. Any person observed by any
other person, on any vehicle described within this area, shall be subject to a
citation, fine, and/or impoundment of vehicle.
   (D)   Complaint to Police Department. Any person observing another person in
violation of this chapter may notify the Police Department of the town without
signing a complaint unless they so desire.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) Penalty, see §
8-4-4
§ 8-4-3 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   Anyone destroying, defacing, or damaging in any manner, trees, playground
equipment, fences, signs, or any other improvements within the park or on its
boundaries will be subject to a citation. The penalty will be as prescribed by
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) Penalty, see §
8-4-4
§ 8-4-4 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person found violating the terms of this chapter shall be guilty of a
general misdemeanor subject to the general provision penalty in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 8-4-5 HOURS OF PUBLIC USE.
   The times of public use for the following parks shall be posted and
enforced, unless otherwise posted or allowed, as follows.
   (A)   Washington Park shall be open to the public between the hours of 5:00
a.m. and 10:30 p.m.
   (B)   McCulloch Park shall be open to the public between the hours of 5:00
a.m. and 10:30 p.m.
   (C)   Sinclair School Park shall be open to the public between the hours of
5:00 a.m. and 10:30 p.m.
(Res. 2022-08, passed 8-18-2022)
TITLE 9: PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1: WATER SYSTEM OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION
Section
   
9-1-1   Ownership and control of water system
   
9-1-2   Management of system: Public Utilities Commissioner
   
9-1-3   Water system reserve account within Water Fund
   
9-1-4   Water service rates and payment
   
9-1-5   Deposit required for new account
   
9-1-6   Financial hardship; special circumstances; waiver of fees
   
9-1-7   Multiple and single units; service lines
   
9-1-8   Connection requirements; charges and payment
   
9-1-9   Billing intervals and procedure
   
9-1-10   Unpaid utility bills and charges; lien
   
9-1-11   Service lines and curb stops
   
9-1-12   Water tap use generally
   
9-1-13   Waste forbidden
   
9-1-14   Water turn off
   
9-1-15   Right of access
   
9-1-16   Water conservation
   
9-1-17   Water use restrictions
   
9-1-18   Water meters
   
9-1-19   Unauthorized use of fire hydrants
   
9-1-20   Pollution of town waterworks
   
9-1-21   Usage of water outside town; permit; charges
   
9-1-22   Penalty
§ 9-1-1 OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OF WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Ownership; object of system. The system of waterworks storage,
transmission, distribution, and supply of the town, located within and without
the corporate limits of the town, are owned by the town and maintained,
controlled, and managed exclusively by the Town Council for municipal purposes.
The object of said system shall be to supply the inhabitants thereof and others
as determined by the town with potable water for domestic, commercial,
manufacturing, lawn watering, and other purposes within and without the town
limits.
   (B)   Approval of additions, changes. The Town Council controls and approves
all additions, changes, and elections to the system and all hookups to the
waterworks system. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation,
excepting the properly authorized agents, officers, or employees of the town,
to add to, change, alter, or otherwise modify the waterworks system within or
without the town, or to insert taps in any water main or otherwise connect or
disconnect from any water main, or turn on any curb stop in the waterworks
system of the town.
   (C)   Unauthorized turn on of water. When the water has been turned off from
any consumer, such consumer shall not turn it on or permit it to be turned on
without the prior consent and authorization of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-2 MANAGEMENT OF SYSTEM: PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Council control. The Town Council controls, manages, and maintains the
waterworks system as hereinbefore set forth.
   (B)   Public Utilities Commissioner.
      (1)   Appointment; compensation. In the furnishing and maintenance of the
water services herein provided, the Town Council may be represented when it
deems it is necessary by a Public Utilities Commissioner who shall be appointed
by the Mayor, after advice and with consent of the Town Council, and the Public
Utilities Commissioner shall receive such compensation for his or her services
as the Council from time to time determines.
      (2)   Removal. The Public Utilities Commissioner may be removed from
office at the pleasure of the Mayor and Town Council.
      (3)   Duties. The Commissioner’s duties, if appointed, shall be to
superintend the installation and maintenance of the water system and he or she
shall be required to give a report on his or her activities to the Town Council
at a regular time designated by them. No bill or claim for work done or
material furnished to the system of waterworks to the town shall be paid or
allowed without first having been audited and approved by the said Public
Utilities Commissioner, if appointed, and the Town Council in all cases.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-3 WATER SYSTEM RESERVE ACCOUNT WITHIN WATER FUND.
   (A)   Account created. There is hereby created a water system reserve
account within the town’s Water Fund, previously known as the “water
maintenance account.”
   (B)   Purpose of reserve. The purpose of the reserve is to allow money to
accumulate from fiscal year to fiscal year for the purposes of discharging the
debt incurred by the town to construct the water storage, transmission, and
distribution system or to make expenditures for capital improvements (or
maintenance of capital improvements) to the water system and any and all items
related thereto. This reserve is created in recognition that the water storage,
transmission, and distribution system is a critical capital improvement within
the town which from time to time requires large expenditures of money.
   (C)   Disbursements. The Council may, from time to time by resolution,
establish a sum to be placed in said water system reserve account. Disbursement
from the reserve account shall be made by transfer to a revenue account within
the Water Fund and expended pursuant to an appropriation of the fund for the
purposes established herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-4 WATER SERVICE RATES AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Monthly bills. The Town Council shall have the authority to set
monthly water rates and fees by resolution. All such monthly bills shall be due
and payable by the property owner or occupant of the property on or before the
twentieth day following the billing date. A delinquency fee will be assessed
for each 30-day period or any portion of the 30-day period wherein the billing
is delinquent after the twentieth day following the billing date.
   (B)   Disconnection for late payment. It is the policy of the town to
discontinue utility service to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only
after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The
town’s form for application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in
addition to the title, address, room number, and telephone number of the
official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions
to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   Relevant evidence. Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not
be entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be
considered. In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or request for the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 30 days.
   (D)   Reinstatement. When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue
utility service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be
reinstated only after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with
a turn-on charge.
   (E)   Availability and commodity charges.
      (1)   Availability charge. Minimum charges for providing water services
shall be assessed monthly, whether or not the property is occupied or water
services are in use.
         (a)   Individually metered services. Each individually metered single-
family residence, mobile home, living unit, apartment, condominium, townhouse,
individual commercial establishment, industrial facility, or other similar type
unit shall pay an availability charge per meter per month.
         (b)   Master metered services. Each facility including, but not
limited to, mobile home courts, multi-family residential units, or commercial
and industrial facilities which are divided into separate units or provide for
more than one use and are serviced through a master meter shall pay an
availability charge per unit or per use.
      (2)   Commodity charge. The rates referenced by this chapter shall be on
file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as revised from time to time by
resolution of the Town Council.
      (3)   Waived fees. This section does not affect or waive any fees or
charges due and owed to the town for water services provided before the
effective date of this section.
      (4)   Copies of rates. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy of
water service rates, without charge, to any person requesting the same in
person or electronically during normal business hours at or from the Town Hall.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer may provide copies of these rates to persons
requesting the same by mail upon receipt of payment, in advance, of an amount
sufficient to pay the costs of postage.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 370, passed 5-2-2013; Res. 2023-02, passed 2-2-
2023; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 9-1-5 DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR NEW ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Requirement; amount. 
      (1)   The town shall establish an account for each parcel of property or
unit to which water service is provided.
      (2)   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the property owner of
record for real property tax purposes and the agent, tenant, occupant,
purchaser, or lessee of each parcel of property if different than the record
owner(s), all of which shall be jointly and severally responsible for the
payment of said account.
      (3)   As security for payment, the town requires a deposit for each
account in a new billing name established after the effective date hereof,
payable to the town. The security deposit shall be set by resolution of the
Town Council.
   (B)   Refund of deposit.
      (1)   The deposit shall be refunded to the person making the deposit or
their authorized assignee for the account if the account is current for 12
consecutive months of service and there have been no late charges assessed on
the account during the 12-month period or at the time said account is closed
and registered in a new name if the account is current at that time.
      (2)   If the account is not current after 12 consecutive months, said
deposit shall be maintained for additional 12-month periods until the same is
current for each month of the entire period. If an account is in arrears, the
town shall have authority at any time as determined by the Town Clerk-Treasurer
to apply the security deposit or any portion thereof to the arrearage on said
account.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 9-1-6 FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES; WAIVER OF FEES.
   In the event the fees created by this chapter, including availability
charge, commodity charge, or connection charges, create an undue financial
hardship, the Town Council shall be empowered to waive or reduce such fees upon
presentation of satisfactory proof of financial hardship, but said waiver shall
be at the sole discretion of the town. The town may also waive said fees, in
the sole discretion of the Town Council, if determined to be in the best
interest of the town for commercial or industrial development.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-7 MULTIPLE AND SINGLE UNITS; SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Multiple units. MULTIPLE UNITS, as used herein, shall include a MOBILE
HOME COURT, which is defined as three or more trailer spaces under a single
ownership and contiguous to each other, apartment complex, motel, hotel, and
related establishments. All multiple units shall be served with a single main
line and single service line therefrom with a single water meter measuring the
water used by such multiple units. The property owner shall be responsible for
the payment of the bill based on the single meter reading and the penalties
associated with such bill, if any.
   (B)   Single units. Not more than one single-family dwelling or one
commercial unit shall be served from one service line with each such unit
having its own meter, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Two or more consumers on one service. Except as provided in division
(A) above, from and after the effective date hereof, individual service shall
be installed for each consumer. In the case of multiple units presently being
served by more than one main or one service line, the town shall provide a
single tap and meter. The work, including labor and materials, necessary to
hook up any multiple unit to a single tap shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. In establishing individual service, the town shall tap the
water main and bring the water service to the curb stop and install a water
meter the same as it would provide in the case of a new tap but no connection
charge fee shall be charged to consumers whose service is separated. There will
still be a reimbursement charge as provided in §
9-1-8 to consumers whose service is separated.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-8 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS; CHARGES AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Charges established; exception; requirements.
      (1)   Charges; permit; connection requirements.
         (a)   The Town Council has the authority to set a connection charge
(previously known as a tap fee) for hooking onto the water main, by ordinance.
All such connection charges are due and payable during regular working hours in
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Connection charges shall be paid to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and a permit obtained prior to tapping or otherwise making
any connection whatsoever to the water main. The permit shall be issued for a
specific permittee and shall not be transferable to other property nor to
another permittee.
         (b)   After payment of the connection charge fee in the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and issuance of a permit for a tap, the town will tap the
water main, run a lateral water line from the water main to the property line
or to the existing service on town property and install a curb stop and a water
meter, pit, or meter assembly and other necessary appurtenances including meter
reading equipment.
         (c)   The town will also require for various nonresidential users,
installation of an approved backflow prevention device as required by the State
Department of Environmental Quality or the applicable regulatory agency.
         (d)   All materials and fixtures required to bring water service to
the property line or to the existing service on town property shall be
furnished by the town at the expense of the property owner or permittee
pursuant to the connection charge set out in division (A)(1)(e) below.
Thereafter, the property owner or permittee shall be responsible for running
and connecting the water service from the connection from the meter pit
assembly into the property, including the required and town approved expansion
pressure relief device.
         (e)   Until modified by the Town Council by resolution, the connection
charge payable hereunder shall be retained by the town in a fund for expansion
and/or repair of the water system. The connection charge includes fees plus
reimbursement for all labor and materials, and the amounts of connection
charges are available at the Town Hall.
      (2)   Exceptions to payment of fee. No fee shall be required for tapping
the water main when the tap is:
         (a)   For the sole purpose of providing service for a fire protection
system within the structure;
         (b)   Required by the State Department of Fire Prevention and Safety
or a similar governmental agency, and such request is evidenced by a written
document from that agency; or
         (c)   The connection or tap is not into a consumer.
   (B)   Reimbursement of charges to town. Labor and materials, as well as
equipment charges, necessary and reasonably charged by the town for tapping the
water main, extending water service to the property line or to the existing
service on town property, installing water service to the meter pit or meter
assembly and installing the curb stop and a water meter, pit or meter assembly,
and other necessary appurtenances, including meter reading equipment and all
other necessary appurtenances, shall also be reimbursed to the town as part of
the connection charge. This reimbursement charge shall include all pavement and
other necessary surface access and restoration costs. The connection charge fee
will be paid prior to issuance of a permit and the reimbursement for all labor
and materials, as well as equipment charges, shall be paid in full prior to the
water supply being turned on.
   (C)   Large water taps; negotiations. For any water taps made over two
inches in size, the connection charge shall be negotiated between the applicant
and the Town Council according to existing conditions at the time of the
request for the tap and taking into account the ability of the town waterworks
system to furnish the water required, additional administrative expense
incurred by the town, labor, materials furnished and provided by the town, and
all other factors which may reasonably be expected to result in an additional
financial burden or necessitate additional capital expenditures. The connection
charge for multiple units, whether residential or commercial, shall be the fee
set forth in division (A)(1)(e) above for the first unit and an additional 20%
of the fee for each additional unit, plus the reimbursement charges as set
forth in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 9-1-9 BILLING INTERVALS AND PROCEDURE.
   The town may bill for utilities at such intervals as shall be
administratively convenient, and the delinquency charges and lien provisions of
this chapter shall apply to and commence from the date of billing. The penalty
charges and turn on fees set forth in §
9-1-4 shall be paid by the record owner of the property in the event of a
delinquency and/or cessation of utility service.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-10 UNPAID UTILITY BILLS AND CHARGES; LIEN.
   (A)   Steps for filing lien. Any utility monthly bill, penalty, turn on fee,
or connection charge remaining unpaid on or after the one-hundred-twentieth day
of the initial billing shall become a lien upon the property benefited by the
water services furnished pursuant to said bill upon and only after the
following steps have been taken.
      (1)   The town shall first give ten days’ notice, in writing, to the
current occupant (billing party) at their address for utility billing purposes
and to the current owner’s address of record for county real property tax
purposes in the County Treasurer’s office for the property in question, of its
intent to file a lien against the property, such notice to reasonably describe
the property and set forth the amount claimed by the town. The street address
shall be sufficient to describe the property in the notice and shall be
sufficient address for mailing the notice if the property owner has no utility
billing or other address on file with the town. For purposes of this chapter,
notice shall be sufficient if deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed as hereinabove indicated and shall be complete upon mailing.
      (2)   No sooner than ten days after the mailing of the notice(s) as
provided hereinabove, the town shall file a lien statement properly
acknowledged and containing a true legal description of the property and the
amount then due to the town in the office of the County Clerk and ex officio
register of deeds of the county.
      (3)   Upon the proper filing of said lien statement, the lien shall be
considered a lien on the property for all purposes.
   (B)   Foreclosure. Any such lien may thereafter be foreclosed by appropriate
action in court or in the manner provided by law for the foreclosure of a
mortgage by advertisement and sale as set forth in Wyo. Stat. §§ 34-4-102 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 9-1-11 SERVICE LINES AND CURB STOPS.
   (A)   Maintenance of water lines. The town shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of the water mains and lateral service lines to each
user’s property line. All maintenance inside the property lines shall be the
responsibility of the property owner, except for the water meter and backflow
prevention devices which shall be maintained by the town whether located on
private property or not.
   (B)   Installation of lateral service lines and other consumer lines. All
lateral service lines and other consumer lines installed after the effective
date hereof shall be buried a minimum of six feet below final grade and shall
be backfilled in compliance with §
8-2-6.
   (C)   Curb stops required. The town shall install a curb stop in each
service line.
   (D)   Keys to valves controlling water mains and curb stops. 
      (1)   No person, except an employee or agent acting under the instruction
of the town or a member of the Town Council shall be allowed to use, own, or
possess a key to any valve controlling water system mains.
      (2)   No person, except a town approved plumber or contractor, or an
employee acting under instructions of the town or a member of the Town Council,
shall be allowed to use, own, or possess a key to a curb stop.
      (3)   The keys herein described shall not be loaned to any person for any
purpose, nor shall such key be allowed to remain in the possession of any
individual other than as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-12 WATER TAP USE GENERALLY.
   No person having a water tap on his or her premises and permitted to use
water therefrom shall supply water to other families or persons, or allow other
persons to take water from the premises except for drinking or domestic
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-12) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-13 WASTE FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall waste water from the town water system. No leaks in service
pipes, connecting pipes, or any water fixture shall be permitted, and if not
promptly repaired to stop such waste of water, after notice from the Town
Council or Public Utilities Commissioner, water shall be shut off and not again
turned on until such leak is repaired.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-13) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-14 WATER TURN OFF.
   (A)   Notice when water shut off. Notice to property owners or occupants/
tenants, by the town or by any officer or employee thereof, when water is to be
turned off for any official reason, shall not be required; however, the town
may, at its discretion, notify property owners or occupants/tenants when water
is to be shut off to any premises.
   (B)   Water turned off; consent to turn on. When the water has been turned
off from any consumer, they shall not turn it on nor permit it to be turned on
without the consent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-14) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-15 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   Free access following notice. The Public Utilities Commissioner,
employees of the Water Department, Chief of Police, police officers, the Mayor,
and all other officers, agents, or inspectors of the town shall have free
access at all reasonable hours, upon reasonable notice, to enter any premises
where water is used, for the purpose of maintenance and repair of facilities
and for the purpose of ascertaining any violations of any of the provision of
this chapter, and such right of access is hereby declared to be a condition of
water service which is accepted by property owners, occupiers, and tenants by
accepting service from the town water system.
   (B)   Denial of access. If access as herein provided is denied by the owner
or other person(s) in rightful possession of property, the town may shut off
water service and discontinue any further utility service to the premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-15) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-16 WATER CONSERVATION.
   During any time that water is in short supply or there is any water
emergency whatsoever, the Mayor and the Town Council may establish reasonable
rules and regulations for the town. Said reasonable rules and regulations may
include, but not by way of limitation, the power to regulate water use on any
uniform basis deemed necessary by the Town Council and the power to impose lawn
watering and other water use restrictions within and without the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-16) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 9-1-17 WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Sprinkling and nonessential purposes; notice.
      (1)   The use of water from the town water utility for lawn and garden
sprinkling or other nonessential purposes may be prohibited or restricted by
resolution of the Town Council.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the order shall be
effective when notice thereof is published at Town Hall. The town may give
notice by other reasonable means to disseminate the restrictions, including
mailing notices or distributing notices to the residences. However, the only
required notice is publication at Town Hall. Ignorance of the restrictions
after the day of the publication is not a defense to a charge of violating this
chapter.
      (3)   Upon the publication of the notice, the sprinkling restrictions or
prohibitions so prescribed shall take effect and any violator thereof shall be
punished as provided in §
1-4-1. The town shall also post notification of the removal of water
restrictions in the same manner as notice is given declaring water
restrictions.
   (B)   Purposes for restricting use enumerated. The town may adopt, amend,
enforce, and remove restrictions upon the use of municipal water by resolution
for the purpose of protecting the town’s surface and underground water
resources and the municipal water system. The restrictions may include but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Regulation of the hours, duration, and days when outdoor watering
of vegetation is permitted;
      (2)   Regulation of the types of outdoor vegetation which may be watered;
      (3)   Prohibition of watering outdoor vegetation;
      (4)   Prohibition of washing hard surfaced areas;
      (5)   Regulating or prohibiting washing vehicles except in businesses
open to the public for washing vehicles in self-service or automated bays;
      (6)   Requiring signage for irrigation from private wells; and
      (7)   Regulating or prohibiting watering turf, trees, shrubs, and flowers
in public parks, cemeteries, and golf courses.
   (C)   Emergency; immediate curtailment. In the event of a major fire or
other emergency that should require the immediate curtailment of the use of
water from the water utility, the Mayor or his or her designee shall have the
authority to make such restrictions as he or she deems necessary for the
protection of the public.
   (D)   Effect of section. All restrictions adopted by town under this section
are effective within the town limits and any property connected to the town’s
water utility.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-17) (Ord. 366, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 9-1-18 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Installation.
      (1)   Each water user existing as of the effective date hereof shall have
installed by and at the expense of the town a water meter of a quality and
capacity acceptable to the town. All water meters will be and remain property
of the town.
      (2)   All such water meters shall be installed by the town with no
expense to the property owner and shall be installed at the property line or as
otherwise determined by the town. If the town is required to go upon private
property or property the ownership of which is in dispute, access to the
property for installation and later maintenance and repair of said water meter
is hereby deemed a condition for further utility service to said property by
the town, and denial of such access shall result in termination of water
services to the property.
   (B)   Maintenance and damage of meters. Normal maintenance of meters shall
be performed by the Town Water Department. The costs of repairs to any meter
and/or backflow prevention device, caused intentionally, negligently, or by
lack of proper care, shall be borne by the property owner.
   (C)   Tampering with meters, refusal of access. No person shall, in any way,
tamper with any water meter installed in or outside the town, or refuse any
officers above referred access to any such meter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-18) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-19 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person, company, corporation, or association, except the Town Fire
Department, Police Department, or Maintenance Department shall use fire
hydrants for any purpose, unless having first obtained permission from the
Mayor therefor.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-19) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-20 POLLUTION OF TOWN WATERWORKS.
   No person shall throw or cast any substance or refuse into any tank,
reservoir, well, trench, pipe, drain, fire hydrant, or valve box used in and
necessary for the construction, maintenance, and operation of the town
waterworks, and which substance shall or may tend to fill up such tank,
reservoir, or valve box, or to fill up or obstruct the flow of water in or from
any such stream, trench, pipe, fireplug, or drain, or shall throw or cast into
any such place any such filth or other substance that shall or may tend to
pollute the water therein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-20) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-21 USAGE OF WATER OUTSIDE TOWN; PERMIT; CHARGES.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership, or corporation (hereinafter referred to as “person”) to make any
connection to the town water system for usage of water outside of the town
without first obtaining a permit to do so.
   (B)   Application for permit; fees and penalties.
      (1)   Application for the permit shall be made to the town through its
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall be granted only after a determination by
the Council that the town will have adequate water and facilities to handle the
necessary requirements of its citizens and to meet any prior contractual
commitments to provide water service, including prior permits to provide water
service outside of town limits.
      (2)   The application and permit shall include a specific use and include
the amount of water that will be used.
      (3)   The fee for the permit and penalties for violation of this section
shall be as set forth from time to time by resolution. The fees for the permit
and penalties shall compensate the town for any additional burden upon the
existing physical water system, including treatment facilities and increased
maintenance.
   (C)   Costs borne by consumer; use restricted; violation.
      (1)   Any costs incurred in extending any mains or modification of the
physical water system, including treatment facilities, and increased
maintenance shall be borne by the persons desiring to use the water outside of
town limits.
      (2)   Any water connection approved by a permit pursuant to this section
shall only be used by the permitted user and only for the specific amounts of
water set forth in the permit.
      (3)   Violations of this section regarding user and amounts shall be a
basis for penalty or revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Modification of town system. Nothing in this section shall require the
town to modify the town’s system in order to supply water service outside of
the town limits.
   (E)   Application of regulations. All water use ordinances and regulations
for water service in town shall be applicable to water service outside of town.
   (F)   Water service rates. The rates for water service outside town limits
shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Town Council. In the event
a resolution is not passed specifically addressing water service outside town
limits, then the rates shall be the same as for customers inside town limits.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-21) (Ord. 368, passed 1-10-2013) Penalty, see §
9-1-22
§ 9-1-22 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in §
1-4-1 for each and every violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-22) (Ord. 342, passed 3-18-2004)
CHAPTER 2: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
9-2-1   Definitions
   
9-2-2   Use of public sewers
   
9-2-3   RESERVED
   
9-2-4   Sanitary sewers, building sewers, and connections
   
9-2-5   Prohibited discharges; public sewer use restrictions
   
9-2-6   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
9-2-7   Penalties
Sewer Connections
   
9-2A-1   Permit required
   
9-2A-2   Application for permit; issuance
   
9-2A-3   List of fees
   
9-2A-4   Cost of material and labor borne by permittee
   
9-2A-5   Unpaid charges; turnoff fee
   
9-2A-6   Extension of sewer mains; procedure
   
9-2A-7   Sewer service outside town limits; permit; charges
Sewer Service Charges
   
9-2B-1   Purpose
   
9-2B-2   Total annual cost of operation and maintenance
   
9-2B-3   User’s wastewater contribution percentage
   
9-2B-4   Surcharge system for users within nonresidential high strength BOD and
SS
   
9-2B-5   User’s wastewater service charge
   
9-2B-6   Payment of user’s wastewater service charge and penalties
   
9-2B-7   Review of each user’s service charge
   
9-2B-8   Sewer usage fees
   
9-2B-9   Late payment charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 9-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE FAT if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
CONCENTRATION is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions prevailing in public sewers,
with no particles greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
(See definition of WASTEWATER.)
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water, or unpolluted water from any source. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of wastewater facilities of the town, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 9-2-2 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Deposits of garbage, other objectionable waste. It shall be unlawful
for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary
manner on public or private property within the town, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   (B)   Sewage wastes discharged to natural outlet. It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet within the town, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the town, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Septic tanks or privy vaults. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall
be unlawful to construct or maintain any permanent privy, permanent privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   Connection to public sewer when available. The owners of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes, situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley, or
right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the town within 100 feet of the lot
property line, is required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 30 days
after date of official notice to do so.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
9-2-7
§ 9-2-3 RESERVED.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
Editor’s Note:
   This section is repealed by Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024.
§ 9-2-4 SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS, AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No authorized persons shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
   (B)   Classes of permits; fees.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for
residential and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
pertinent in the judgment of the Council.
      (2)   A fee for a sewer permit for residential, commercial, or industrial
building shall be paid to the town at the time the application is filed. Said
fees for the tap and inspection shall be set by the Town Council by resolution.
   (C)   Responsibility for costs; indemnify town against loss or damage. All
costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owners. The owners shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate building sewers; exception. A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Use of old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Compliance with building and plumbing codes, other standards. The
size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary sewers,
including building sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of
pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town. In the absence of suitable code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the material and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Elevation of building drain. Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   Groundwater or surface water runoff. No person shall make connection
of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such
connection is approved by the town for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage.
   (I)   Connection of building sewer into public sewer. The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and
WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials must be approved by the town before installation.
   (J)   Notice to town for inspection and connection. The applicant for the
building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer
is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and
testing shall be made under the supervision of a licensed civil engineer at the
expense of the applicant.
   (K)   Restoration of excavations. All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the town at the applicant’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
9-2-7
§ 9-2-5 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; PUBLIC SEWER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Unpolluted water; surface drainage. No persons shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any unpolluted water such as stormwater, surface water,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sewer,
except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which stormwater may be polluted
at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the town.
   (B)   Discharges to storm sewers. Stormwater other than that excepted under
division (A) above and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the town and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the town, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Certain prohibited waters and wastes. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any
public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   Substances limited in discharges. The following described substances,
materials, waters, or wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal
systems to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers,
wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. The Council may set limitations lower than
the limitations established in the regulations below if, in its opinion, such
more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming
its opinion as to the acceptability, the Council will give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant,
and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the town are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 mg/l of petroleum oil,
nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat,
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition of
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE in §
9-2-1). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits which may be established by the town for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the town;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the town in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a SLUG
as defined in §
9-2-1;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; or
      (10)   Any waters or wastes which, by integration with other waters or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structure and treatment processes.
   (E)   Nuisance conditions; town options.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the
judgment of the town, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the town may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below.
      (2)   When considering this alternative, the town shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharges. If
the town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the town.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive
amounts as specified in division (D)(3) above, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the town, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owners shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
town. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by
owner’s personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities. Where pretreatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owners at their expense.
   (H)   Industrial wastes, structure to facilitate observation. When required
by the town, the owners of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the town. The structure shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   Information required to determine compliance. The town may require a
user of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance
with this chapter. These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (J)   Measurements, tests, and analyses. All measurements, tests, and
analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made
in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the
American Public Health Association and shall be paid for by the user under the
supervision of the superintendent. Sampling methods, location, times,
durations, and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject
to approval by the town.
   (K)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the town for treatment.
   (L)   Damaging wastewater facilities or equipment. No person shall
maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface,
or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the
wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
9-2-7
§ 9-2-6 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right of entry. The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Authority to obtain information; exception. The town or other duly
authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to
the wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information
considered confidential. The industry must establish that the revelation to the
public of the information in question might result in an advantage to
competitors.
   (C)   Observation of safety rules; town indemnify company against loss or
damage.
      (1)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in division (A) above, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of
the town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company.
      (2)   The town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
9-2-5(H).
   (D)   Use of easements. The superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 9-2-7 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Notice of violation; remedial action. Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter, except § 9-2-6, shall be served by the town with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Penalty imposed. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in §
1-4-1 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Liability for damage. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the town for each expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by the town by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7)
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 9-2A-1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, or association shall
tap or make any connection with, nor shall any company or association be
allowed to make any connection or tap with, a sewer main until there has first
been issued a permit for the tapping of any sewer main, and until all fees have
been paid in advance as may be established from time to time by the Mayor and
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-1) Penalty, see §
9-2-7
§ 9-2A-2 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application; approval. Every person, firm, copartnership, corporation,
company, or association desiring to tap or make any connection with a sewer
main of the sewer system of the town shall make application therefor to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer upon forms to be provided therefor, and which shall be
approved by the Building Inspector, who shall likewise designate the
appropriate fee for such permit.
   (B)   Permit issuance; payment of fee. Upon approval thereof, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a tapping permit and collect the fee therefor in advance.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-2)
§ 9-2A-3 LIST OF FEES.
   The fees to be charged for any permit issued to make any connection or tap
of the sewer main shall be as follows:
   (A)   Residences. The fees shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time.
   (B)   Apartment houses. The regular fee for a residential tap, plus 25% for
each additional living unit after the first;
   (C)   Motels and hotels. The regular fee for a residential tap, plus 10% for
each sleeping room constructed and maintained for rent, plus a regular
residential fee for the bar and restaurant if components of the motel or hotel;
and
   (D)   Commercial and industrial. By contract based upon demand and
deteriorating effect of the use upon the facilities of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 9-2A-4 COST OF MATERIAL AND LABOR BORNE BY PERMITTEE.
   The fees charged by this chapter shall include only the privilege of making
the connection with the sewer main, and all costs of material and labor in
extending the sewer main or in connecting the service from the sewer main to
the point of use shall be borne entirely by the permittee, who shall likewise
be required to refill and re-tamp all excavations so as to be free from
settling, and shall likewise resurface where necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-4)
§ 9-2A-5 UNPAID CHARGES; TURNOFF FEE.
   When any charge as established pursuant to this chapter shall remain unpaid
after notice and the opportunity to contest billing, the water at such sewer
tap shall be turned off of the property benefited by the repairs or
replacements and shall not be turned on again until such charges are fully
paid, together with a turnoff fee.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-5) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 9-2A-6 EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Responsibility for payment of costs. In all cases where it is
necessary to extend the sewer mains to serve property within the town, the
property owner who first requests the extension of the sewer shall pay all
costs of material and labor necessary for surveys, excavation, laying of pipe,
and joining the same from the then present end of the sewer main to where it
shall properly serve the property owner.
   (B)   Costs filed with Clerk-Treasurer; collection. The costs of such
extension shall then be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and thereafter as
sewer taps are permitted at each intervening point of such extension, the town
shall collect the pro rata share of the cost of such extension from each tap
permittee, and such charge shall be collected and paid into the town treasury
before a tap permit shall be issued; and the amount so collected, exclusive of
the tap charge, shall be remitted to the property owner who originally paid for
the extension.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-6)
§ 9-2A-7 SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS; PERMIT; CHARGES.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership, or corporation (hereinafter referred to as “person”) to make any
connection to the town sewer system for usage of the sewer system outside of
the town without first obtaining a permit to do so.
   (B)   Application for permit; fees and penalties.
      (1)   Application for the permit shall be made to the town through its
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall be granted only after a determination by
the Council that the town will have adequate sewer facilities to handle the
sewage requirements of its citizens and to meet any prior contractual
commitments to provide sewer service, including prior permits to provide sewer
service outside of town limits.
      (2)   The application and permit shall include a specific use and include
the amount of sewage that is approved for connection to the system.
      (3)   The fee for the permit and penalties for violation of this section
shall be as set forth from time to time by resolution. The fees for the permit
and penalties shall compensate the town for any additional burden upon the
existing physical sewer system.
   (C)   Costs borne by consumer; use restricted; violations.
      (1)   Any costs incurred in extending any mains or modification of the
physical sewer system, including treatment facilities, and increased
maintenance shall be borne by the persons desiring to use the sewer outside of
town limits.
      (2)   Any sewer connection approved by a permit pursuant to this section
shall only be used by the permitted user and only for the specific amounts of
sewage set forth in the permit.
      (3)   Violations of this section regarding user and amounts shall be a
basis for penalty or revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Modification of town system. Nothing in this section shall require the
town to modify the town’s system in order to supply sewer service outside of
town limits.
   (E)   Application of regulations. All sewage use ordinances and regulations
for sewer service in town shall be applicable to sewer service outside of town.
   (F)   Rates. 
      (1)   The rates for sewer service outside town limits shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the Town Council.
      (2)   In the event a resolution is not passed specifically addressing
sewer service outside town limits, then the rates shall be the same as for
customers inside town limits.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-7) (Ord. 367, passed 1-10-2013) Penalty, see §
9-2-7
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 9-2B-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue
to pay all costs for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater
system. The costs shall be distributed to all users of the wastewater system in
proportion to each user’s hydraulic contribution to the total loading of the
treatment works for residential users contributing domestic strength waste
defined in §§
9-2B-3 and
9-2B-4.
   (B)   Users of the system with nonresidential high strength waste shall be
assessed sewer service charges based on hydraulic, organic (BOD), and suspended
solids loadings as stated in §§
9-2B-3 and
9-2B-4.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-1)
§ 9-2B-2 TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The town, or its engineer, shall determine the total annual costs of
operation and maintenance or the of sewerage system which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment
works, for which such works were designed and constructed.
   (B)   The total annual cost of operation and maintenance shall include but
need not be limited to labor, repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance,
necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests, and a reasonable
contingency fund.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-2)
§ 9-2B-3 USER’S WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   The town, or its engineer, shall determine average user’s average
daily volume of wastewater, which has been discharged to the wastewater system,
which shall then be divided by the average daily volume of all wastewater
discharged to the wastewater system, to determine each user’s volume
contribution percentage.
   (B)   The amount used as the total average daily volume of wastewater shall
exclude infiltration and inflow. Residential users contributing domestic
strength waste will be assessed charges based on hydraulic loading only.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-3)
§ 9-2B-4 SURCHARGE SYSTEM FOR USERS WITHIN NONRESIDENTIAL HIGH STRENGTH BOD AND
SS.
   (A)   The town, or its engineer, will determine the average suspended solids
(SS) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) daily loadings for the average
residential users. The town will assess a surcharge rate for all nonresidential
users discharging wastes with BOD and SS strengths greater than the average
residential user.
   (B)   Such users will be assessed a surcharge sufficient to cover the costs
of treating such user’s above normal strength wastes. Normal strength domestic
wastes are considered to be 180 ppm BOD and 240 ppm SS. The surcharge rate
structure for such above normal strength waste dischargers is contained in
Appendix A of Ord. 229, on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-4)
§ 9-2B-5 USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Each nonresidential user’s wastewater treatment cost contributions as
determined in §§
9-2B-3 and
9-2B-4 shall be added together to determine such user’s annual wastewater
service charge. Residential users will be considered to be one class of user
and an equitable service charge will be determined for each user based upon an
estimate of the total wastewater contribution of this class of user.
   (B)   The governing body may classify industrial, business, commercial, and
other nonresidential establishments as a residential user; provided, that the
wastes from these establishments are equivalent to the wastes from the average
residential users with respect to volume, suspended solids, and BOD. Each
user’s wastewater treatment cost contribution will be assessed in accordance
with the rate schedule contained in Appendix A of Ord. 229, on file in the
office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-5)
§ 9-2B-6 PAYMENT OF USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE AND PENALTIES.
   The town shall submit a quarterly statement to the user for the user’s
monthly wastewater service charge to be included with the monthly water utility
billing. Should any user fail to pay the user wastewater service charge within
six months of the due date, the town may stop the wastewater service to the
property.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-6)
§ 9-2B-7 REVIEW OF EACH USER’S SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The town shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s wastewater contribution percentage not less
often than every two years and will revise the system as necessary to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment works.
   (B)   If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change that user’s wastewater contribution
percentage, the user can present at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
governing body, such factual information and the town shall then determine if
the user’s wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed. The town shall
notify the user of its findings as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-7)
§ 9-2B-8 SEWER USAGE FEES.
   (A)   Fees established. Any and all persons or corporations who shall
utilize the services of the sanitary sewer disposal system of the town shall
pay a monthly charge as set by the Town Council by resolution.
   (B)   Hardship; waiver of fee. If any fee established by this section will
cause undue hardship upon any person, the fees may be waived in whole or in
part by motion of the Town Council.
   (C)   Unpaid fees a lien against property. The fees provided by this section
shall constitute a lien on all property owned by the user within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-8) (Ord. 317, passed 10-2-1997; Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-
2024)
§ 9-2B-9 LATE PAYMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. Late payment charges shall pertain to fees required to
be paid to the town pertaining to sewer usage fees, water fees and landfill
fees, respectively.
   (B)   Payment; delinquency. Statements shall be due and payable at the
office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer immediately upon receipt of the statement
and shall be delinquent if not paid before the expiration of 90 days after the
date the statement was prepared for mailing.
   (C)   Responsibility for payment; penalty for failure.
      (1)   Property owners or the owner, agent, tenant, purchaser, or lessee
of each such place or abode or place of business shall, each and all, be
jointly and severally liable for the payment of all charges and fees hereunder.
Failure to pay any charges and fees when due shall constitute a violation of
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Collection of the charges and fees fixed under this chapter and
other applicable ordinances when delinquent may be enforced by civil action at
law brought by the town or an accredited collection agency for the town in any
court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy is cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to all penalties provided for by the town
ordinances for any violation of provisions thereof.
      (3)   No change of ownership or occupation shall affect the application
of this section. In the event fees described in this chapter are not paid
within the 90-day period, the amount shall accrue interest of $10 for each 30-
day period the fees are not paid after the 90-day delinquency period. The late
payment charges shall be collectible in addition to the accrued fees as
described in this chapter as well as any and all other costs of collection,
including reasonable attorney fees incurred by the town as the result of any
civil action initiated for collection or foreclosure of the lien provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-9) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
9-2-7
CHAPTER 3: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Section
   
9-3-1   Purpose and scope
   
9-3-2   Type of pipes and lines
   
9-3-3   Installations
   
9-3-4   Pavement repairs
   
9-3-5   Town work
   
9-3-6   Certificate of compliance
   
9-3-7   Responsibility for costs
   
9-3-8   Figure; underground utilities installation
§ 9-3-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to define the minimum standards for
underground utility installations and/or repairs for water mains and water
services, sewer mains and sewer services, storm sewers, telephone, cable, and
electrical lines and oil and gas mains, including pipe installation, backfill
and compaction, and pavement repairs within the town owned rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 9-3-2 TYPE OF PIPES AND LINES.
   (A)   Water mains.
      (1)   Water mains shall be a minimum of six-inch PVC SDR 18, AWWA C900,
with integral bell and spigot or dual gasketed collar joints. The ultimate
water main size shall be determined by the Town Council on its engineer’s
recommendation and/or its water system master plan.
      (2)   Fittings for water main installations shall be mechanical joint or
push on joint, class 150 ductile iron or cast iron. Water main valves shall be
cast iron resilient seat type gate valves with mechanical joints and adjustment
cast iron valve boxes. The minimum cover is five feet, zero inches.
   (B)   Water services. Water services shall be a minimum of three-fourths-
inch type K copper. Corporations and curb stops shall be brass, meeting the
latest revision of AWWA standards. Tapping saddles shall be dual strapped
bronze with rubber seal. The minimum cover is five feet, zero inches.
   (C)   Sewer mains. Sewer mains shall be minimum eight-inch PVC DR 35, ASTM
designation D3034 with integral bell and spigot joints, or as required by the
town’s engineer and/or superintendent. The minimum slope is one-fourth inch per
foot.
   (D)   Sewer services. Sewer services shall be a minimum four inch DR 35,
ASTM designation D3034 with integral bell and spigot joints. The minimum slope
is one-fourth inch per foot.
   (E)   Abandonment of sewer laterals. At such time as any sewer lateral to
any property within the town is abandoned, the lateral must be capped off at
the main sewer line, and any capping, including street cuts, shall be at the
sole expense of the landowner for whose benefit the work is performed. The
capping shall be in compliance with any and all other town ordinances.
   (F)   Storm sewers. Storm sewers shall be a minimum class III reinforced
concrete pipe sized and sloped per the Town Engineer’s recommendations.
   (G)   Telephone, cable, and electrical lines. Telephone, cable, and
electrical lines shall be suitable for underground installation per the State
Electric Code. The minimum cover is 36 inches.
   (H)   Oil and gas mains. Oil and gas mains shall be suitable for underground
installation per the State Oil and Gas Commission standards. The minimum cover
is 36 inches.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 9-3-3 INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Governing standards. Should the requirements of this chapter not cover
the specific variables of a given installation, the latest edition of the State
Public Works Standard Specifications shall govern.
   (B)   Pipelines.
      (1)   Installation of underground pipelines shall be per the specific
manufacturer’s recommendations, OSHA requirements, and in accordance with the
figure in §
9-3-8, when open trenching is allowed.
      (2)   All pipelines shall be bored and cased under existing paved
streets, unless permission to open cut is given by the town Mayor. Bore casing
ends shall be plugged with grout.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 9-3-4 PAVEMENT REPAIRS.
   Where the town Mayor has given permission for open cut utility installations
in existing paved streets or a paved street requires repair, the following
minimum standards shall apply for pavement repair.
   (A)   Subgrade shall be compacted to 95% standard proctor density at within
5% optimum moisture.
   (B)   Adjacent concrete pavement shall be saw cut a depth of two inches true
to line, squared, and removed with a jackhammer.
   (C)   Adjacent asphalt pavement shall be saw cut or jackhammered within an
asphalt chisel true to line, squared, and removed with a jackhammer.
   (D)   Subgrade shall be uniform depth from edge to edge.
   (E)   Concrete thickness, compressive strength, finish, jointing, and curing
shall be per figure in §
9-3-8.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 9-3-5 TOWN WORK.
   Town employees are hereby authorized to perform all work required under the
terms of this chapter, but such work shall be at the discretion of the Town
Maintenance Department and shall not interfere with other duties. In the event
town employees perform such services, the landowner for whose benefit the work
is performed shall pay to the town an hourly charge for its employees,
determined by the town, such equipment charges as the town may impose, and all
material and other costs to the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5)
§ 9-3-6 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The landowner for whose benefit work is performed under the terms of this
chapter shall obtain a certificate either from the Town Building Inspector or a
licensed civil engineer certifying compliance with the term of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6)
§ 9-3-7 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   The landowner for whose benefit the work is performed shall bear all costs
for the work covered by this chapter, including all material, labor, and
inspections.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7)
§ 9-3-8 FIGURE; UNDERGROUND UTILITIES INSTALLATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9037d83e84f3bf82bdd6bc798d2a9b582f42f005/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.png]
 
Note to figure: Concrete shall be 3,000 psi 28 day compressive strength.
Concrete shall be sprayed with a paraffin sealer within two hours of the pour.
Joints shall be at a minimum of ten feet by ten feet, knifed to three-fourths
of the concrete depth and groove troweled. Pavement widths less than ten feet
shall be jointed in squares equal in length to width. Trench width less than
two feet shall be jointed in five-foot lengths. All concrete shall receive a
broomed finish.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8)
TITLE 10: BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-1-1   International codes
   
10-1-2   Fire limits declared
   
10-1-3   Permit fees
   
10-1-4   Dwelling construction; parking space required
   
10-1-5   Construction specifications and restrictions
   
10-1-6   Enforcement and penalty
§ 10-1-1 INTERNATIONAL CODES.
   (A)   Adoption; modifications. There is adopted by the Town Council for the
purpose of prescribing regulations for the minimum standards to safeguard life,
health, property, and public welfare, the following codes:
      (1)   International Residential Code For One- And Two-Family Dwellings.
The 2012 International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, with
the following modifications:
         (a)   Section R302.2, exception A is deleted and replaced with the
following:
            1.   A common two-hour fire resistance rated wall is permitted for
townhouses if such walls do not contain plumbing or mechanical equipment,
ducts, or vents in the cavity of the wall. Electrical installation shall be in
accordance with the State Electric Code. Penetrations of electrical outlet
boxes shall be in accordance with § R302.4.
         (b)   Section R302.2.4, exception 5 is amended as follows:
            5.   Townhouses separated with a common two-hour fire resistance
rated wall as provided in § R302.2.
         (c)   Section R309.5, Sprinkler System For Private Garages, is deleted
in its entirety;
         (d)   Section R311.7.5.1, Riser Height, first sentence is amended to
read: Maximum height shall be eight inches (203 mm);
         (e)   Section R313.2, residential automatic fire sprinkler system is
modified so that the residential automatic sprinkler system is not required;
and
         (f)   Section R313.2.1 is modified to require that if a person does
install an automatic fire sprinkler system, the system must be built and
designed in accordance with § P2904 or NFPA13D.
      (2)   International Building Code. The 2012 International Building Code,
with the following modification: § [F]903.2.8-Group R is modified to include
the following exception:
         1.   Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses) constructed with the international residential code for
one- and two-family dwellings.
      (3)   International Existing Building Code. The 2012 International
Existing Building Code, no modifications; and
      (4)   International Fire Code. The 2012 International Fire Code, no
modifications.
   (B)   Fee schedules. The fee schedules, if any, for these codes are excepted
from the adoption of these codes. Unless modified or excepted herein, the codes
listed above are incorporated in this section as fully as if set out at length
in this chapter, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the town.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating the terms of this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
1-4-1.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 369, passed 3-7-2013)
§ 10-1-2 FIRE LIMITS DECLARED.
   The land included within the following described limits is hereby declared
to constitute the fire limits of the town: All that part of the corporate
limits of the town, as platted in the original filed townsite map of the
original town; except those blocks situated south of the Union Pacific Railroad
Company right-of-way and east of that certain street designated as 3rd Street.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 10-1-3 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees to be charged for the issuance of any permit under the
provisions of this chapter shall be as determined by the Town Council.
   (B)   The fees collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
remitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the usual manner.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
§ 10-1-4 DWELLING CONSTRUCTION; PARKING SPACE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Size of parking area. No dwelling shall be constructed within the town
limits unless the owner shall provide at least 576 square feet of paved parking
space within the boundary lines of the area upon which such dwelling is
constructed.
   (B)   Plans required. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any dwelling unless the plans indicate the inclusion of the
parking space required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) Penalty, see §
10-1-6
§ 10-1-5 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Wood foundations, basement walls unlawful. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to use wood foundations and wood
basement walls for residential or business construction within the town limits.
   (B)   Foundation requirements. All residential and commercial buildings
shall be securely set and attached to a continuous foundation of cement, stone,
cinder block, or cement block.
   (C)   Wood paneling permitted. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the covering of any cement, stone, cinder block, cement block, or other
approved foundations and basement walls with paneling or wood coverings.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) Penalty, see §
10-1-6
§ 10-1-6 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Duties of town officers. It is made the duty of the Chief of Police,
the Chief of the Fire Department, code enforcement officer, or any police
officer to file an information or citation before the Municipal Court within
the town against any and all persons violating or attempting to violate any of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalty imposed. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation
violating any of the terms or conditions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
1-4-1, and each day such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
CHAPTER 2: UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
10-2-1   Code adopted
§ 10-2-1 CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the Town Council for the purpose of
prescribing regulations for the minimum standards to safeguard life, health,
property, and public welfare, that certain code known as the Uniform Code for
the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings (1997 edition), save and except such
portions as may be deleted, modified, or amended, and the same is incorporated
in this section as fully as if set out at length in this chapter, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the town. One copy
shall be on file and available for inspection by the public in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Penalty imposed. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation
violating any of the terms or conditions of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
1-4-1, and each day such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (C)   Abatement. The procedure for abatement of dangerous structures shall
be per §§ 5-1-3 through
5-1-10.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)
CHAPTER 3: ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-3-1   State administration and enforcement
§ 10-3-1 STATE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Electrical installations, inspections, and licensing provisions shall be
administered and enforced by the state pursuant to Wyo. Stat. Title 35, Ch. 9,
Art. 1.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1)
TITLE 11: ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: TITLE, INTERPRETATION, AND DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11-1-1   Short title
   
11-1-2   Interpretation
   
11-1-3   Definitions
§ 11-1-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the zoning ordinance of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 11-1-2 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall
be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and welfare. To protect the public, among other purposes, such
provisions are intended to provide for adequate light, pure air, safety from
fire and other danger, undue concentration of population, and ample parking
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 11-1-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building (such as a garage) attached to a dwelling
building, is considered a part of the dwelling and subject to the same lot line
dimensions as a principal dwelling.
   ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING. A subordinate use or building customarily
incident to and located on the same lot with the main use or building.
   ALLEY. Any public space or thoroughfare which has been dedicated or deeded
to the public for public travel and which affords secondary access to abutting
property.
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built, or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals, or property, including tents, lunch wagons,
dining cars, camp cars, trailers, and other roofed structures on wheels or
other supports used for residential, business, mercantile, storage, commercial,
industrial, institutional, assembly, educational, or recreational purposes.
   BUILDING LINE. The line between and which the street line or lot line, where
no building or other structure or portion thereof, except as provided in this
code, may be erected above the grade level.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of such building.
   DWELLING. A building designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families.
   DWELLING HOUSE. A house designed for and occupied exclusively as the
residence of not more than one family in each, not including tents, lunch
wagons, dining cars, camp cars, trailers, or other roofed structures on wheels
or other supports.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICE. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
in connection therewith, but not including buildings reasonably necessary for
the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions, or for the public health or safety or general
welfare.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or part thereof accessory to a main building and
providing for the storage of vehicles and other personal property.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one building,
and the accessory buildings or uses customarily incident to it, including such
open spaces as are required by this title.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets, the angle of intersection being not more than 135
degrees. It is the land occupied or to be occupied by the corner building and
its accessory buildings.
   LOT, REVERSED FRONTAGE. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side
of another lot, whether across the alley or not.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle used or so constructed as to permit its being used as
a conveyance upon public streets or highways and duly licensable as such,
constructed in such a manner as will permit year-round occupancy thereof as a
dwelling. Such unit’s overall length shall be 29 feet or more.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure built of one or more sections by one manufacturer
and designed for permanent placement upon a foundation in another location, the
construction of which must meet the Building Code for Residences in the town.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure, or use of land existing on the
effective date hereof and which does not conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than 180 square feet, net, exclusive of
access or maneuvering area, or ramps, columns, and the like, to be used
exclusively as a temporary storage for the private motor vehicle. Truck loading
and unloading space shall not be included in such area.
   ROOF. A building cover or awning, whether or not permanent in nature.
   SETBACK BUILDING LINE. A building line back of the street line indicating
where structures may be erected.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which has been dedicated or deeded to the
public for public use and which affords principal means of access to abutting
property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground, including signs,
billboards, and fences or walls used as fences.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed, or
intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   YARD. An open space other than a court on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
   YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
the front line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
between the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot and
extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
11-2-1   Application of regulations
   
11-2-2   Enforcement and administration
   
11-2-3   Nonconforming uses and buildings
   
11-2-4   Building permit required
   
11-2-5   Zoning Board
   
11-2-6   Amendments
   
11-2-7   Injunctive right; penalty
§ 11-2-1 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. No building shall be erected and no existing building
shall be moved, altered, added to, or enlarged, nor shall any land, building,
or premises be used, designated, or intended to be used for any purpose or in
any manner other than is included among the uses hereinafter listed as
permitted in the district in which such building, land, or premises is located.
   (B)   Height and lot coverage. No building shall be erected, reconstructed,
or structurally altered to exceed in height and maximum coverage of lot the
limits hereinafter designated for the district in which such building is
located.
   (C)   Open space. No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing
building be structurally altered, enlarged, or rebuilt, nor shall any open
space surrounding any building be encroached upon or reduced in any manner,
except in conformity with the building site area and width, building location,
yard, and floor area regulations hereinafter designated for the district in
which such building or open space is located.
   (D)   Yards. No yard or other open space provided about any building for
purpose of complying with provisions shall be considered as providing a yard or
other open space for any other building, and no yard or other open spaces of
one lot shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for a building on
any other lot.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) Penalty, see §
11-2-7
§ 11-2-2 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided in this title, the Mayor or Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall administer and enforce this title, including the receiving of
applications, the inspection of premises, and the issuing of building permits.
No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued by him or her
except upon compliance with the provisions of this title. In considering
building permits, the Mayor or his or her delegate shall deny any application
therefor when the type of architectural design of the proposed dwelling or
structure will be injurious or detrimental to the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2) Penalty, see §
11-2-7
§ 11-2-3 NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Continuation of use. Except as provided in this section, the lawful
use and location of any building or land existing on the effective date hereof
may be continued even though the use or location does not conform to the
requirements of this title.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance. Ordinary repairs and maintenance of a
nonconforming building shall be permitted.
   (C)   Restoration. A nonconforming building which has been damaged by fire
or other natural deterioration may be restored to its original condition,
provided the work is commenced within one year of the calamity.
   (D)   Abandonment. Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a
period of one year, the use shall not thereafter be reestablished; any future
use shall be in conformance with the provisions of this title.
   (E)   Extensions. A nonconforming use shall not be increased in area, nor
shall a building containing a nonconforming use be extended.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
11-2-7
§ 11-2-4 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required; application.
      (1)   No building or structure shall be erected, added to, or
structurally altered until a permit therefor has been issued by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, in consultation with the Town Building Inspector or substitute as
appointed by the Town Council.
      (2)   All applications for such permits shall be in accordance with the
requirements of this title, and, unless upon written order of the Zoning Board
or substitute as provided in §
11-2-5(E), no such building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for any building where the construction, addition, or alteration or use thereof
would be in violation of the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Matter accompanying application. There shall be submitted with all
applications for building permits two copies of a layout or plot plan drawn to
scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size
and location of the building and accessory building to be erected, and such
other information as may be necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this title.
   (C)   Payment of fee. One copy of such layout or plot plan shall be returned
when approved by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, together with such permit to the
applicant upon the payment of the fee provided in the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
11-2-7
§ 11-2-5 ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Creation, appointment, and organization. A Zoning Board is created.
The Board shall consist of no less than three and no more than five members,
each to be appointed for a term of three years by the Mayor and with the advice
and consent of the Town Council. The first appointment may be for one, two, or
three years. The Board shall elect a Chairperson from its membership, shall
appoint a secretary, and shall prescribe rules for the conduct of its affairs.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Zoning Board or its substitute shall have all
the powers and duties prescribed by law, including Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-608, and
by this title, which are more particularly specified, but not limited, as
follows:
      (1)   Interpretation. Upon appeal from a decision by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or other administrative official, to decide any question involving
the interpretation of any provision of this title, including determination of
the exact location of any district boundary if there is uncertainty with
respect thereto;
      (2)   Special permits. To issue special permits for any of the uses for
which this title requires the obtaining of such permits from the Zoning Board
or its substitute as provided in §
11-2-5(E), in granting any special permit, the Board or its substitute shall
prescribe any conditions that it deems to be necessary to or desirable for the
public interest. However, no such special permit shall be granted by the Zoning
Board or its substitute if the Board or its substitute finds that the use for
which such permit is sought will not be injurious to the neighborhood or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare and would not be in harmony with
the general purpose of this title. In determining its findings, the Board or
its substitute shall take into account the character and use of adjoining
buildings and those in the vicinity, the number of persons residing or working
in such buildings or upon such land and traffic conditions in the vicinity; and
      (3)   Variances. To vary or adapt the strict construction and appliance
of this chapter only when the Board or its substitute finds that there are
special circumstances or conditions, fully described in its findings, applying
to the land or building for which a variance is sought. Such circumstances and
conditions must be peculiar to such land and buildings, and not generally
applicable to land and buildings in the neighborhood and that they are such as
would, upon strict application, deprive the owner of reasonable use of the land
or buildings; that the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public interest.
   (C)   Procedure. The Zoning Board or its substitute shall act in strict
accordance with the procedure specified in Wyo. Stat. § 15-1-608, and this
title.
   (D)   Appeals. Appeals to the Board or its substitute shall be taken by the
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, or board of the town from a
final decision of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, or other officer, within 30 days
thereof, by filing with the officer and the Board or its substitute a written
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
   (E)   Zoning Board alternative. In the event the Town Council is unable to
appoint members to the Zoning Board in compliance with division (A) above, the
Town Council shall assume the powers and duties of the Zoning Board and all
appeals shall be to the District Court of the Second Judicial District of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-5) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024) Penalty, see §
11-2-7
§ 11-2-6 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to amend. The Town Council from time to time may, on its own
motion, or on petition, or on recommendation of the Zoning Board, amend,
supplement, or repeal the regulations and provisions of this title.
   (B)   Report of proposed amendment. Every such proposed amendment or change,
whether initiated by the Town Council or by petition, shall be referred to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and Zoning Board for report thereon before a public
hearing.
   (C)   Fix time and place of public hearing. The Town Council, by resolution
adopted at a stated meeting, shall fix the time and place of a public hearing
on the proposed amendments.
   (D)   Amendment or rezoning by property owner. An amendment or rezoning may
be initiated by a petition of interested property owners or authorized agents
of such owners for rezoning of any land to a less restricted district;
provided, that the land is adjacent or directly across a street or alley from
property which is proposed to be rezoned.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-6)
§ 11-2-7 INJUNCTIVE RIGHT; PENALTY.
   (A)   Injunctive right. In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any
building, structure, or land is used in violation of the provisions of this
title, or in violation of a decision of the Zoning Board or its substitute, the
proper authorities, in addition to other remedies which are prescribed by this
chapter, shall institute any appropriate legal action or proceedings to prevent
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alternation, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use; to restrain, correct, or abate such violation;
to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure, or land; or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such premises.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this title shall be
guilty of a general misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
accordance with the general penalty provisions contained in §
1-4-1.
   (C)   Action taken by Town Attorney. It shall be the duty of the Town
Attorney to bring the actions provided in divisions (A) and (B) above upon the
complaint of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. His or her services shall also be
available to the Zoning Board or its substitute, as provided in §
11-2-5(E).
(Prior Code, § 11-2-7) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
CHAPTER 3: ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
Section
   
11-3-1   Establishment of districts
   
11-3-2   Zoning map
§ 11-3-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this title, the town is divided into
the following districts:
   (A)   R One-Family;
   (B)   B Business;
   (C)   CI Commercial and Industrial; and
   (D)   O Open.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)
§ 11-3-2 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries and zoning classifications of districts established are
as shown on a map entitled, “Amended Zoning District Map Of The Town,” dated
March 7, 2002, which map and all notations, references, data, and other
information shown thereon are by reference made a part of this title.
   (B)   District boundary lines are section lines; lot lines; the centerlines
of highways, streets, alleys, railroad rights-of-way, or such lines extended;
municipal corporation lines; natural boundary lines; or other lines drawn to
scale on the zoning district map.
   (C)   The official zoning district map shall be kept up to date by the town,
and copies of the map shall be available for public use.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 335, passed 3-7-2002)
CHAPTER 4: USE AND DENSITY SCHEDULES
Section
   
11-4-1   Use and density schedules
   
11-4-2   Listing of uses
   
11-4-3   Uses permitted in R One-Family Residential District
   
11-4-4   Uses permitted in B Business District
   
11-4-5   Uses permitted in CI Commercial and Industrial District
   
11-4-6   Uses permitted in O District
   
11-4-7   Density schedule for R District
   
11-4-8   Density schedule for B and CI Districts
§ 11-4-1 USE AND DENSITY SCHEDULES.
   The schedules of regulations in this chapter applying to the use of the
land, and the use, lot area, lot width, height, yards, setback, and floor area
of land and about buildings, and all other matters contained in this title, as
indicated for the various districts established by this title, are hereby
adopted and declared to be a part of this title and may be amended in the same
manner as any other part of this title.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
§ 11-4-2 LISTING OF USES.
   The listing of any use in the schedule as being permitted in any particular
district shall be deemed to be an exclusion of such use from a more restricted
district, unless such use is specifically permitted in the more restricted
district under the language set forth in the schedule.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)
§ 11-4-3 USES PERMITTED IN R ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The following uses are permitted in the R One-Family Residential District:
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (B)   Churches and church schools, provided no such building shall be closer
than 15 feet to any residential property line;
   (C)   Municipal buildings and uses;
   (D)   One-family and multi-family dwellings, not to exceed two stories;
   (E)   Public parks, playgrounds, libraries, museums, and other municipal
recreation facilities;
   (F)   Public schools for elementary and high school education; and
   (G)   Public utility mains, lines, and substations where no public office or
no repair or storage facilities are maintained.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 11-4-4 USES PERMITTED IN B BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The following uses are permitted in the B Business District:
   (A)   All uses permitted in the R district as stated therefor;
   (B)   Places for the conduct of any limited business, such as the following;
provided, that all such uses are operated primarily within an enclosed
building, that traffic hazards are minimized, that lights are directed away
from adjoining residential areas, that off street loading areas are available
as needed, and that, in general, no dust, smoke, fumes, gas, noxious odor,
excessive noise, or other atmospheric effluent shall be disseminated beyond the
boundaries of the B District. Questions concerning the interpretation of
environmental influences shall be decided by the Town Council based on the
intent and purpose of this title:
      (1)   Antique shops and art shops;
      (2)   Banks;
      (3)   Barbershops and beauty shops;
      (4)   Book and stationery stores;
      (5)   Bowling alleys;
      (6)   Clothing stores;
      (7)   Department stores;
      (8)   Drugstores;
      (9)   Dry goods and variety stores;
      (10)   Electrical and household appliance stores;
      (11)   Equipment and supply stores;
      (12)   Florists;
      (13)   Furniture stores;
      (14)   Gift shops;
      (15)   Grocery stores;
      (16)   Hardware stores;
      (17)   Hotels and motels;
      (18)   Jewelry and craft shops;
      (19)   Membership clubs;
      (20)   Mobile home communities;
      (21)   Music, radio, and television stores;
      (22)   Office supply stores;
      (23)   Offices;
      (24)   Package liquor stores;
      (25)   Paint stores;
      (26)   Photographic studios;
      (27)   Private schools;
      (28)   Shoe stores;
      (29)   Sporting and athletic goods stores;
      (30)   Theater, indoor only;
      (31)   Tourist homes;
      (32)   Toy stores;
      (33)   Travel bureaus; and
      (34)   Watch repairs.
   (C)   Places including membership clubs, serving food and beverages for
consumption inside of an enclosed building; provided, alcoholic beverages shall
only be served in the B District in conjunction with such places having a
capacity for food service; and
   (D)   Places for the conduct of any general business, such as the following:
      (1)   Automobile sales, repair, and used car lots;
      (2)   Bakeries, primarily for retail sales on the premises;
      (3)   Builders’ supply yards and lumberyards;
      (4)   Cleaning and dyeing establishments;
      (5)   Frozen food lockers;
      (6)   Places of amusement or recreation; and
      (7)   Places serving alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 11-4-5 USES PERMITTED IN CI COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The following uses are permitted in the CI Commercial and Industrial
District:
   (A)   All uses permitted in the B District, as stated therefor in §
11-4-4;
   (B)   Places for the conduct of any commercial, wholesale, processing, or
distribution activity, such as the following:
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Bottling works;
      (3)   Cabinetmaking and carpenter shops;
      (4)   Cement and concrete products;
      (5)   Dairy processing and distribution plants;
      (6)   Ice and cold storage plants;
      (7)   Machine shops;
      (8)   Manufacture of handicraft products; and
      (9)   Sheet metal shops.
   (C)   Storage warehouse; storage of oil, gasoline, and petroleum products;
provided, new areas used for this purpose are located at least 150 feet from a
more restricted zoning district and not within 150 feet of any occupied
residence;
   (D)   Any kind of scientific research or manufacture, compounding,
assembling, processing, or treatment of products; provided, the following
limitations are placed on all such uses.
      (1)   All permitted uses shall be operated entirely within a completely
enclosed structure.
      (2)   Dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, noise, lights, and vibrations
shall not exceed in intensity at the boundary of the lot the conditions
normally found in a residential neighborhood.
      (3)   Travel parking portions of the lot shall be surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, or equivalent paving.
   (E)   Any industrial or manufacturing operation subject to the following
conditions and exceptions.
      (1)   Excessive amounts of dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, noise,
lights, and vibrations shall be confined within the Cl District. Questions
concerning the interpretation of “excessive amounts” shall be decided by the
Town Council based on the intent and purpose of this title.
      (2)   Outdoor storage, equipment, and refuse areas shall be concealed
from view from abutting rights-of-way and adjoining residential districts.
      (3)   The following uses shall not be permitted under any circumstances
without the unanimous consent of the Council:
         (a)   Alfalfa dehydrators;
         (b)   Fat rendering;
         (c)   Garbage, offal, or dead animal reduction; and
         (d)   Manufacturing of cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris,
fireworks or explosives, glue, distillation of bones.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
§ 11-4-6 USES PERMITTED IN O DISTRICT.
   The following uses are permitted in the O District: all uses permitted in
the B District in §
11-4-4; provided, each use has a minimum lot area of ten acres.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-6)
§ 11-4-7 DENSITY SCHEDULE FOR R DISTRICT.
   All R districts shall comply with the following density schedule:
Maximum height of buildings:
   Accessory building           25 feet
   Principal building           35 feet
Minimum floor area per dwelling    800 square feet
Minimum front yard:
   Accessory building           45 feet
   Principal building           20 feet
Minimum lot area per dwelling      5,000 square feet
Minimum lot width per dwelling     50 feet
Minimum rear yard:
   Accessory building (unattache3 feet
   Principal building:
      Aggregate for each lot 14 feet
      Any one yard           7 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 11-4-7) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 11-4-8 DENSITY SCHEDULE FOR B AND CI DISTRICTS.
   All B and CI Districts shall comply with the following density schedule:
 
                      B Business                 Cl Commercial And
                                                 Industrial
Maximum height of     65 feet                    65 feet
building
Minimum front setback 40 feet from centerline of 40 feet from centerline of
                      street                     street
Minimum rear setback  13 feet from centerline of 13 feet from centerline of
                      alley                      alley
Minimum side yard     NR*                        NR*
Note to table: NR means none required, except as might be required by the
Council.
 
(Prior Code, § 11-4-8)
CHAPTER 5: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-5-1   Special regulations
   
11-5-2   Minimum area and minimum lot width
   
11-5-3   Maximum height of buildings
§ 11-5-1 SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses not itemized; determination of appropriate district. 
      (1)   Where a use is not itemized and uncertainty exists as to the
district permitting such use, the use may be included in the appropriate
district upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and approval of the
Town Council, provided:
         (a)   Such use is not listed in any other use group;
         (b)   Such use is more appropriate in the use group to which it is
added than in any other use group;
         (c)   Such use conforms to the basic characteristics of the use group
to which it is added; and
         (d)   Such use does not create any more offensive noise, vibration,
dust, heat, smoke, odor, glare, or other objectionable influences or more
traffic hazards than the minimum amount normally resulting from the other uses
listed in the use group to which it is added.
      (2)   When any use has been added to any use group in accordance with
division (A)(1)(d) above, such use shall be deemed to be listed in the
appropriate use group and shall be added thereto in the published text of this
title at the first convenient opportunity with a notation indicating that the
addition was made in accordance with division (A)(1)(d) above.
   (B)   Household pets. Pets such as dogs, cats, and birds which are generally
kept within a dwelling shall be considered as a permitted accessory use;
provided, not more than four animals of more than four months of age are kept
on any one lot.
   (C)   Home occupations. A home occupation shall be considered as a permitted
accessory use in any zoning district; provided, the home occupation is subject
to the following limitations.
      (1)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried
on by the inhabitants living there and no others.
      (2)   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not change the character thereof.
      (3)   The total area used for the home occupation shall not exceed one-
half the floor area of the user’s living unit.
      (4)   There shall be no exterior advertising or other display.
      (5)   There may be only incidental sale of stocks, supplies, or products.
      (6)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material or
equipment used as a part of the home occupation.
      (7)   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors,
heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
      (8)   A home occupation, including studies or rooms for instruction,
shall provide additional off street parking area adequate to accommodate needs
created by the home occupation.
      (9)   In particular, a home occupation includes but is not limited to the
following; provided, all requirements contained in this section are met:
         (a)   Art studio;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Dressmaking or millinery work;
         (d)   Office for insurance or real estate sales; and
         (e)   Office for professional services, and teaching.
      (10)   Ordinarily, a home occupation shall not be interpreted to include
the following:
         (a)   Animal hospital;
         (b)   Clinic;
         (c)   Hospital;
         (d)   Nursing home;
         (e)   Restaurant; or
         (f)   Tourist home.
   (D)   Fences, hedges and walls. Fences, hedges, and walls shall be
considered as permitted accessory uses; provided, they meet the following
instructions.
      (1)   No hedge shall be located within 42.42 feet of the point of
intersection of any two street centerlines.
      (2)   No fence or wall which is over four feet in height as measured from
the top elevation of the adjacent curb, and of which the upper two feet are
uniformly less than 80% visually open shall be located within 42.42 feet of the
point of intersection of any two street centerlines.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above, a fence or
wall or any hedge may be located in a required front yard; provided, such
fence, wall, or hedge does not exceed four feet in height, as measured from the
top elevation of the adjacent curb.
      (4)   No hedge, wall, or fence shall exceed six feet in height when
located between the front building line and a line 55 feet from the front lot
line.
      (5)   No hedge, wall, or fence shall exceed eight feet in height when
located more than 55 feet from the front lot line.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) Penalty, see §
1-4-1
§ 11-5-2 MINIMUM AREA AND MINIMUM LOT WIDTH.
   Where an individual lot was held in separate ownership from adjoining
properties or was platted and recorded on the effective date hereof, and has
less area and/or less width than required in other sections of this title, such
a lot may be occupied according to the permitted uses provided for the district
in which such lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)
§ 11-5-3 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   The height requirements in this title shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, penthouses, nor to chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water
tanks, parapet walls, cornices without windows, antennas, or necessary
mechanical appurtenances usually carried above the roof level, nor to any
buildings located more than one foot distance from the nearest lot line for
each two feet of building height.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3)
TITLE 12: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
12-1-1   Administration
   
12-1-2   Authorization
   
12-1-3   Purposes
   
12-1-4   Jurisdiction
   
12-1-5   Saving provision
   
12-1-6   Amendments
   
12-1-7   Conditions for development
   
12-1-8   Variances
   
12-1-9   Compliance of development plans
   
12-1-10   Recording plat; accepting improvements; subdivision permits
   
12-1-11   Enforcement; violations; penalties
§ 12-1-1 ADMINISTRATION.
   This title shall be administered by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 12-1-2 AUTHORIZATION.
   Authorization for the regulations of this title are contained in Wyo. Stat.
§§ 15-1-601 through 15-1-611 for municipalities; and Wyo. Stat. §§ 34-12-101
through 34-12-115 on platting and dedication. (Prior Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 12-1-3 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purposes of this title are to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   The overall objective of this title is to consider land subdivision
plats as part of a plan for the orderly, efficient, and economical development
of the land within the town jurisdiction. The following provisions shall guide
the Town Council in formulating their decisions:
      (1)   Proposed streets shall compose a convenient and efficient traffic
circulation system, properly related to the official plans and the town.
Streets shall be of such width, grade, and light and location to accommodate
prospective traffic, provide adequate light and air, and to provide access by
service and emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Land of suitable location, size, and character for utility or
drainage easements or public community services shall be shown on the
subdivision plat whenever appropriate;
      (3)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be
used safely for building purposes without danger to health and welfare from
flooding, fire contamination, erosion, and other menace;
      (4)   The development of any subdivision should avoid unnecessary
environmental degradation; pollution of air, streams, ponds, and the like; and
be in harmony with the natural environment;
      (5)   Protect and conserve the value of land and buildings throughout the
town and minimize conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
      (6)   Provide for adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewage,
schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements,
facilities, and open space needs as will accommodate the anticipated rate of
development;
      (7)   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and insurance of proper legal descriptions and monumenting of
subdivided land to provide adequate records for land titles; and
      (8)   Avoid excessive expenditure of the public funds for the supply of
public services.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 12-1-4 JURISDICTION.
   This title shall apply to all subdivisions of land within the jurisdictional
area of the governing body of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 12-1-5 SAVING PROVISION.
   This title shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or
about to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or
corporation, or as waving any right of the town under any section or provision
existing on the effective date hereof, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of the town
except as shall be expressly provided for in this title.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5)
§ 12-1-6 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the Town Council may recommend to the local governing body of the town
proposed modifications and revisions of this title. Public hearings on all
proposed amendments shall be held in the manner prescribed by law, after which
the Town Council shall approve, amend, or override the recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)
§ 12-1-7 CONDITIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   The developer shall comply with reasonable conditions laid down by the Town
Council for design, dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of the land so
as to conform to the physical and economical development of the town and to the
safety and general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of
the community at large.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7)
§ 12-1-8 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General requirements. Where the Town Council finds that extraordinary
hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with this
title, or the purposes of this title may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, it may approve variances to this title so that
substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured, if such
variance does not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this
title. The Town Council shall not approve variances unless it finds, based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case, that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of this title is carried out; or
      (4)   The variances will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning ordinance, master plan or official map.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Town Council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of this title.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
the consideration of the Town Council. The petition shall state fully the
grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8)
§ 12-1-9 COMPLIANCE OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Compliance with state law. No plan of any development shall be
accepted by the Town Council until it shall have been approved in the manner
prescribed in this title and also shall be in compliance with the law of the
state.
   (B)   Change of plans after Council approval. No changes, erasures,
modifications, or revisions shall be made in any plan of a development after
approval has been given by the Town Council and endorsed in writing on the
plan, unless such plan is first resubmitted to the Planning Commission in
writing and approved by the Town Council as a revised plan.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9)
§ 12-1-10 RECORDING PLAT; ACCEPTING IMPROVEMENTS; SUBDIVISION PERMITS.
   (A)   Vested rights accruing to final plat. No vested rights shall accrue to
any plat by reason of preliminary or final approval until the actual signing of
the plat by the Town Council. All requirements, conditions, or regulations
adopted by the Town Council applicable to the subdivision or on all
subdivisions generally shall be deemed a condition for any subdivision prior to
the time of the signing of the final plat by the Town Council.
   (B)   Recording of plat. After the Town Council has approved and affixed its
signature to the final plat, where necessary, it shall be the responsibility of
the town to file the plat with the County Clerk’s office within 30 days of the
date of signature. Simultaneously with the filing of the plat, the town shall
record any other legal documents as shall be required to be recorded by the
Town Attorney.
   (C)   Lot sales prior to recording of plat prohibited. No owner, or agent of
the owner, of any parcel of land located in a proposed subdivision shall
transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of such subdivision has been
approved by the Town Council, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
and recorded with the County Clerk, where necessary.
   (D)   Issuance of subdivision permit; fee. After final approval, a
subdivision permit will be issued by the town upon payment of the subdivision
permit fee. The fee shall be the greater of $100 or $10 per lot up to a maximum
fee of $1,000.
   (E)   Final acceptance; prerequisite to issuance of building permit;
exception. The Building Inspector or substitute shall not issue building or
repair permits for any structure on a lot in a development for which a final
plan has not been approved in the manner prescribed in this title. It shall be
the responsibility of the Building Inspector to check that all work is being
performed in accordance with the final plans. However, it is the sole
responsibility of the developer or contractor that all work shall be done
according to the final plans, and acceptance by the Mayor shall not relieve any
developer of this responsibility. Until final acceptance has been approved, the
developer continues to be responsible for any and all maintenance. Any variance
in the final plan not approved in writing shall be corrected by the developer
at the developer’s expense within three months of written modification.
   (F)   Prerequisite to street improvements. The town shall withhold all
public street improvements and services of whatsoever nature, including
maintenance from all areas which have not been accepted by the Town Council in
the manner prescribed in this chapter or by other official actions of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-10) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 12-1-11 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   General administration and prohibitions.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council shall enforce this title
and bring to the attention of the Town Attorney any violations or lack of
compliance herewith.
      (2)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the Town Council, in accordance with the
provisions of this title, and filed with the County Clerk.
      (3)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat of subdivision sold in violation
of the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Violations and penalties. Wyo. Stat. §§ 15-1-511 and 15-1-512, as
amended, provide the penalty for violations of the town planning and
subdivision laws and regulations.
   (C)   Civil enforcement. Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
law or in equity pursuant to existing ordinances of the town to prevent any
violation of this title; to prevent unlawful construction; to recover damages;
to restrain, correct, or abate a violation; to prevent illegal occupancy of a
building, structure, or premises; and these remedies shall be in addition to
the penalties described in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-11)
CHAPTER 2: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
12-2-1   Word usage
   
12-2-2   General definitions
§ 12-2-1 WORD USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms,
and words used in this title shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set
forth in this section.
   (B)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   (C)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement, the word MAY is a
permissive requirement, and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
   (D)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED, or
ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED.
   (E)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT or PARCEL.
   (F)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense; words in the plural number include
the singular; the word HEREIN means this title.
   (G)   A BUILDING includes a STRUCTURE, a BUILDING or STRUCTURES includes any
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1)
§ 12-2-2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to
the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the governing body. All BONDS shall be approved by the
governing body wherever a bond is required by this title.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the Town Council as a
condition of approval of the plat.
   COUNTY. The territory of Carbon County.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   DEVELOPER. Any person commencing proceedings under this title to effect a
development of land for himself, herself, or for another.
   DEVELOPMENT. The process by which one or more persons undertake either:
      (1)   To subdivide land into three or more parcels for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of sale;
      (2)   To construct buildings on three or more parcels for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of sale; or
      (3)   To sell any platted lot on which a building has been constructed to
another person or persons while owning three contiguous lots on which no
buildings have been constructed.
   ENGINEER. Any person licensed to practice professional engineering in the
state as specified in Wyo. Stat. § 33-29-114.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the Town Council in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such ESCROW
funds shall be deposited by the zoning officer in a separate account.
   FINAL PLAT. The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material, as described in this title.
   GRADE. The inclination from the horizontal of a road, unimproved land, and
the like, and is expressed by stating the vertical rise or fall as a percent of
the horizontal distance.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, streetlights, flood control and
drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related matters
normally associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land in a development, separated from other
parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision or record of survey map
or by metes and bounds, for the purpose of sale or lease to, or separate use
of, another.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS. A lot shall be measured as follows.
      (1)   DEPTH OF A LOT shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lines in the rear.
      (2)   WIDTH OF A LOT shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured at the building setback line.
   LOT TYPES. Terminology used in this title with reference to corner lots,
interior lots, and through lots is as follows.
      CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A
lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn at right angles from the foremost points of the lot meet
at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot within only one frontage on a
street.
      REVERSED FRONTAGE. A lot on which frontage is at right angles to the
general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE lot may also be a CORNER LOT.
      THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE
LOTS.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL STREET. A fast or heavy traffic street of considerable
continuity and used primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among
large areas.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to the
arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   MASTER PLAN. A comprehensive plan adopted by the Town Council which
indicates the general locations recommended for the various functional classes
of public works, places, and structures for the general physical development of
the town and includes any unit or part of such PLAN separately adopted and any
amendment to such PLAN or parts thereof.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the town or his or her official representative.
   OFF SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the Town Council showing the streets,
highways, and parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established by law and
any amendments thereto adopted by the Town Council or additions thereto
resulting from the approval of development plans by the Town Council and the
subsequent filing of such approved plans.
   OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a
building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental features,
swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities that the Town
Council deems permissive. Streets, structures for habitation, and the like
shall not be included.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ORDINANCES.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under this title.
   PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND. An agreement by a subdivider or developer
with the town for the amount of the estimated construction cost guaranteeing
the completion of physical improvements according to the plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the subdivider’s agreements.
   PLAT. A map or layout of a subdivision indicating the location and
boundaries of individual properties.
      FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map, drawing, or chart upon which the
subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Town Council for approval,
and which, if approved, will be submitted to the County Clerk for recording.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in this
title, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Town Council for approval.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. All such
IMPROVEMENTS shall be bonded in accordance with this title.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes
shall mean that every RIGHT-OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final
plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or
parcels.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane,
place, or however otherwise designated.
   SUBDIVISION. See definition of DEVELOPMENT.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map or drawing, described in this title, on
which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Town Council for
approval and which, if approved, may be submitted to the County Clerk or
recorder of deeds for filing.
   TOWN. The incorporated area of the town as it existed on the effective date
hereof, and including revisions thereof.
   UNIT. A portion of a subdivision selected for development as one of a series
of stages.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   YARD. A required open space other than a court unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure from three feet above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward; provided, accessories, ornaments, and
furniture may be permitted in YARDS, subject to height limitations and
requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a
lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the principal building to the side lot
line on both sides of the principal building between the lines establishing the
front and rear yards.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
CHAPTER 3: PRELIMINARY PLATS
Section
   
12-3-1   Contents of preliminary plat
   
12-3-2   Construction drawings
   
12-3-3   Filing of preliminary plat
   
12-3-4   Public hearing on preliminary plat
   
12-3-5   Approval of preliminary plat by Town Council
§ 12-3-1 CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat of a development shall be prepared by a state licensed
engineer or surveyor and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The proposed name of the development;
   (B)   The location of the development as a part of some larger tract of land
and, by reference to permanent survey monuments, with a tie to a section corner
or a quarter section corner or to an aliquot corner of the public land survey
as legally set. Additionally, if such data is available, the coordinates of two
adjacent points of the tract shall be determined in accordance with the state
land coordinate system;
   (C)   The names and addresses of the developers and owners, the designer of
the development, the engineer or surveyor, if any, and a reasonably accurate
designation of the owners of adjacent undeveloped property;
   (D)   The location and principal dimensions of all existing or recorded
section lines, streets, alleys, and easements;
   (E)   The location and principal dimensions for all proposed streets, street
names, alleys, easements, lot lines, lot numbers, and areas to be reserved for
public use;
   (F)   The date of preparation, scale (not less than 200 feet to the inch),
and north sign (designation as true north);
   (G)   The acreage of the land to be developed; and
   (H)   The preliminary plat must be approved by the State Department of
Environmental Quality prior to submission to the town, and proof of this prior
approval shall be shown by appropriate documentation which shall be submitted
to the town at the time of the filing of the preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1)
§ 12-3-2 CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS.
   The following items shall be included in the construction drawings submitted
with the preliminary plat:
   (A)   The drawings shall show all physical features such as streams, wooded
areas and existing structures;
   (B)   Existing topographic contours at an interval of not greater than five
feet shall be shown;
   (C)   Location of existing sewers, water mains, storm drains, power
transmission lines with capacities and direction of flow within and adjacent to
the tract and showing proposed connections; and
   (D)   Location, right-of-way, and pavement width of proposed streets and
utility easements laid out according to sound planning principles.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2)
§ 12-3-3 FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The developer under this title or his or her representative shall file three
copies of the preliminary plat with the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3)
§ 12-3-4 PUBLIC HEARING ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall notify the developer under this title of the
time and place of a hearing before the Town Council on the preliminary plat not
less than two weeks before the date fixed for the hearing.
   (B)   Notice of hearing, in the form of a first class letter, shall be
mailed to the owners of undeveloped land immediately adjoining the area
proposed to be developed, as shown on the preliminary development plan, and
notice of the hearing regarding the proposed development shall also be given to
public or private utility offices serving the area and to the public school
district.
   (C)   Although the list of persons notified of the hearing shall be
reasonably accurate, failure to contact all adjoining landowners and utility
and school officials shall not invalidate the hearing procedure.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4)
§ 12-3-5 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Actions of Town Council. After the hearing on the preliminary plat,
the Town Council shall approve, disapprove, or approve subject to modification,
the plat. If approved, the Town Council shall affix its signature to the plat.
If recommended for approval with modifications, or disapproved, the Town
Council shall attach to the plat a statement of the reasons for such action. In
any case, a notation of the action taken and requisite reasons therefor shall
be entered in the records of the town.
   (B)   Time limit for acting upon recommendations. The Town Council shall act
on the recommendation within 32 days after the recommendation is formally
presented to the Town Council. The Town Council shall determine whether the
preliminary plat shall be approved, approved with modifications, or
disapproved, and shall give notice of its decision to the developer. If
approved, the members of the Council shall affix their signatures to the plat.
If approved with modifications or disapproved, there shall be attached to the
plat a statement of the reasons for such actions signed by the members of the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-5)
CHAPTER 4: FINAL PLATS
Section
   
12-4-1   Contents of final plat
   
12-4-2   Filing of final plat
   
12-4-3   Review of final plat
   
12-4-4   Approval or disapproval by Town Council
§ 12-4-1 CONTENTS OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Contents. The final plat shall incorporate all changes or
modifications required by the Town Council. All drawings or signatures shall be
on permanent reproducible form acceptable to the town, with outer dimensions of
24 inches by 36 inches. It shall contain all of the information required for
the preliminary plat (except contour lines, public utilities, and the owners of
adjacent undeveloped property), plus the following:
      (1)   Accurate dimensions for all lines, angles, and curbs used to
describe boundary streets, alleys, easements, areas to be dedicated for the
public use, and other important features;
      (2)   An identification of all lots and blocks, and names of streets;
      (3)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
recorded title in the land shall appear on the final plat and shall be in
conformance with state law;
      (4)   A certification by a state licensed surveyor as to the accuracy of
the survey and drafting of the plat;
      (5)   Certification for approval of the plat by the Mayor and approval
and acceptance of the plat by the Town Council;
      (6)   Certificate for recording the book, page, date, and instrument
number where the plat is recorded in the office of the County Clerk and ex
officio register of deeds;
      (7)   Legal description of the tract being subdivided and reflecting the
boundary survey and including the section, township, and range; and
      (8)   All exterior plat boundary lines with lengths of courses and
bearings as determined by an accurate survey in the field. The plat shall be
prepared at a scale of not smaller than one inch equals 100 feet.
   (B)   Accompanying documents. The final plat shall be accompanied by the
engineering drawings, construction plans, agreements, or bonds as may be
specified by the Town Council in accordance with the provisions of Chs. 1, 3,
and 6 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1)
§ 12-4-2 FILING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing with Town Council; time limit for action. After receiving
notice of the action of the Town Council approving the preliminary plat, if a
developer desires to proceed, he or she shall file three copies of the final
plat with Town Council. The Town Council shall act on the final plat within 30
days after official filing, unless the time is extended by agreement with the
developer or his or her agent.
   (B)   Council determination. The Town Council shall recommend whether the
final plat shall be approved or disapproved. If recommended for approval, the
Chairperson of the Town Council shall affix his or her signature to the plat.
If disapproved, the Town Council shall attach to the plat a statement of the
reasons for such action. In any case, a notation of the action taken and
requisite reasons therefor shall be entered in the records of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2)
§ 12-4-3 REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT.
   Before a final plat which has been recommended for approval by the Town
Council shall be presented to the Town Council, engineering design plans and an
improvement assurance, as described in Chs. 1, 3, and 6 of this title shall be
reviewed by the Mayor and Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3)
§ 12-4-4 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Time limit. The Town Council shall act on the final plat within 32
days after the plat is presented to the Council. If no action is taken by the
Town Council within 32 days or a longer period as may have been agreed upon,
the final plat shall be deemed approved.
   (B)   Council determination. If the final plat is approved and all necessary
development agreement forms, bonds, and engineering plans are also approved by
the Town Council, the Council members shall affix their signatures to the plat.
If disapproved, the Council shall attach to the plat a statement of the reasons
for such action.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-4)
CHAPTER 5: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
12-5-1   Street requirements
   
12-5-2   Lot requirements
§ 12-5-1 STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   The following design requirements shall apply to all developments within the
town, unless the development has been platted and the streets dedicated to
public use prior to the effective date hereof or unless unusual conditions
warrant a variance from such requirements and such variance is approved by the
Town Council.
   (A)   Relationship to topography. Streets shall bear a logical relationship
to topography and to the location of existing or platted streets in adjacent
property.
   (B)   Conformance with official plans. Streets, utility rights-of-way, and
public open spaces shall conform to the official plans of the town for the
extension and location of such public facilities.
   (C)   Minimum street widths. Minimum street widths shall be as follows:
 
Classification                       Right-of-Way Width Roadway Width
Collector with property line walk    80 feet            52 feet
Local street with curb walk          80 feet            46 feet
Local street with property line walk 60 feet            46 feet
Major arterial                       100 feet           68 feet
 
   (D)   Alleys. Alleys shall be at least 30 feet in width and open at both
ends in business districts. Alleys at least 20 feet in width shall ordinarily
be required in all residential districts and shall be open at both ends. Where
alleys are not required, easements shall be granted or reserved at least ten
feet in width on each side of all rear lot lines and along side lot lines where
necessary for utility installation and maintenance.
   (E)   Marginal access streets. Where a development adjoins or contains an
existing or proposed major arterial highway or street on which traffic volumes
and vehicular speeds warrant special safety features, marginal access streets
at least 30 feet in width shall be required.
   (F)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall approach the major or collector
streets at an angle of not less than 80 degrees.
   (G)   Cul-De-Sacs. Minor terminal streets (cul-de-sacs) shall be not longer
than 400 feet to the beginning of the turnaround. Each cul-de-sac must have a
50-foot radius from the property line and a 100-foot diameter from property
line to property line. If surface water drainage is into the turnaround, due to
the grade of the street, necessary catch basins and drainage easements shall be
provided. Where a street is designed to remain only temporarily as a dead end
street, an adequate temporary turning area shall be provided at the dead end
thereof to remain and be available for public use so long as the dead end
condition exists.
   (H)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet
shall not be allowed.
   (I)   Continuation of existing streets. When new streets are in alignment
with existing streets, the new streets shall be named according to the streets
with which they align. Streets which do not fit into an established street
naming pattern shall be named in a manner which will not duplicate or be
confused with existing names.
   (J)   Street grades. Street grades shall be more than 0.5% but less than 10%
for local and collector streets and alleys and less than 6% for major arterial
streets.
   (K)   Grade approaching intersections. Streets shall be leveled to grade of
4% or less for a distance of at least 100 feet approaching all intersections
unless the resulting vertical curve to connect the two street grades shall
result in a grade of more than 8% in the connecting grade.
   (L)   Half streets. Half streets proposed along a subdivision boundary or
within any part of a subdivision shall not be approved.
   (M)   Arrangement of streets. The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall make provision for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining
area (or their proper protection where adjoining land is not subdivided)
insofar as such may be deemed necessary by the Town Council for public
requirements. The street arrangement must be such as to cause no unnecessary
hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek
to provide for convenient access to it.
   (N)   Dedication of streets. Streets in subdivisions shall be dedicated to
the town as public streets.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1)
§ 12-5-2 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
ordinance and health regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings
on such lots from an approved street.
   (B)   Size. Lots shall be at least as large as required by the minimum
standards contained in the zoning regulations; except, that in no event shall
any interior lot be less than 100 feet in width and 100 feet in length.
   (C)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be at right angles to the street
line or at right angles to the tangent of the curve of the street line.
   (D)   Reversed corner lots. Reversed corner lots and through lots shall not
be permitted.
   (E)   Frontage; blocks. All lots shall front on a public street or highway.
Blocks for residential use shall be a minimum of 300 feet in length and not
more than 600 feet in length.
   (F)   Areas subject to flooding. No lots shall be platted in areas subject
to flooding unless adequate flood protection measures are taken.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2)
CHAPTER 6: IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
12-6-1   Required improvements listed
   
12-6-2   Guarantee and dedication of improvements
   
12-6-3   Methods of assurance of guarantee
   
12-6-4   Agreement between town and developer
   
12-6-5   Certificates of occupancy
   
12-6-6   Building permits
   
12-6-7   Maintenance of improvements
   
12-6-8   Determination of completion
   
12-6-9   Acceptance of improvements
§ 12-6-1 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS LISTED.
   (A)   No final plat of any development of land shall be approved by the Town
Council, unless it is possible without undue delay for the developer to supply
a guarantee to the improvements required in this chapter.
   (B)   The owner of any land to be platted as a subdivision shall, at his or
her own expense, install the improvements detailed below:
      (1)   Street grading and drainage. Grading, concrete curbs, and gutters,
cross gutters, drainage, and drainage structures necessary to the proper use,
safety, and drainage of streets and highways;
      (2)   Pavement material and thickness. Pavement material and thickness
shall be a minimum of eight-inch compacted subbase, with a minimum four-inch
bituminous overlay, unless otherwise specified by the Town Engineer;
      (3)   Concrete sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks shall be provided not less
than five feet wide. Wider sidewalks may be required along major and collector
highways or for streets abutting commercial or industrially zoned land;
      (4)   Water supply. The developer shall connect to the town water system.
Water mains and fire hydrants of a size, type and at a location uniform in
pattern and design historically used in the town shall be provided by the
developer. Individual water connections to each lot shall be provided from the
town water system to the property line of each lot;
      (5)   Sewer system. The developer shall connect to the town sewer system.
Stubs from public utilities, where provided, and from sanitary sewers shall be
made available for each lot in such manner as will obviate the necessity for
disturbing the street pavement, gutter, culvert, and curb when sewer line
connections are made. Individual sewer connections to each lot shall be
provided from the town sewer system to the property line of each lot and no
more than one house shall be tied unto each lateral;
      (6)   Street name signs. Street name signs uniform in design and pattern
as those historically used in the town shall be installed at all street
intersections. The developer shall bear the total expense in the purchasing and
installation of all required street name signs;
      (7)   Barricades and reflectors required. Barricades and reflectors shall
be provided along the ends of all dead end or without turn around streets, and
at the ends of culverts and other dangerous areas during construction. There
shall be no permanent dead end streets without cul-de-sacs;
      (8)   Permanent survey monuments. Permanent survey monuments shall be set
at all development boundary corners in such locations so as not to be disturbed
during construction. Permanent survey monuments shall also be placed on each
lot p.c. and p.t., shall be five-eighths inch rebar with aluminum cap, and
shall be marked with the identity of the corner and name of the surveyor. Such
monuments shall either be concrete at least 36 inches in length and four square
with suitable permanent center point, or a 30 inch by two and one-half inch
iron pipe with brass cap;
      (9)   Other improvements. The developer shall make such other
improvements as needed when deemed necessary by the Town Council to preserve
the public health, safety, or welfare;
      (10)   Extension of sewer and water facilities. If sewer and water
facilities are not available adjacent to the proposed development, it shall be
the responsibility of the developer to extend such lines in a manner
satisfactory to the Town Council. Where such lines may benefit existing
developments, the Town Council can make such a determination and if deemed
necessary, may partially finance or make other arrangements as needed to assist
in such construction; and
      (11)   Dedication of public land.
         (a)   To enable the development of public uses to serve the
development, dedication of areas or sites of a character, extent and location
suitable for parks, schools, open space, greenbelts, or other public purposes
(other than streets) shall be dedicated as follows: The percent of the total
land to be dedicated shall be based on the formula below, which recognizes the
national standard of ten acres per 1,000 population for park usage. This
standard is then related to the density and varying family size and density
changes. Therefore, the amount to be dedicated is calculated as follows:
 
Gross density x 2 ÷ 5 = 11% dedication
Example: 3 units per acre x 2 ÷ 5 = 11% dedication
 
         (b)   An alternate to dedication could occur if agreed upon by the
Town Council in one of the following methods:
            1.   Dedicating use rights to the town for a portion of the area;
            2.   Leasing to the town for a nominal fee for 50 to 100 years; or
            3.   Cash payment to the town for the market value of the land
required for open space.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1) (Ord. 2024-01, passed 4-4-2024)
§ 12-6-2 GUARANTEE AND DEDICATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All improvements required in this title shall be guaranteed. All
improvements shall be dedicated to the town, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-2)
§ 12-6-3 METHODS OF ASSURANCE OF GUARANTEE.
   (A)   No final subdivision plat will be approved by the town unless one or
more of the following methods of assurance are submitted with the final plat.
      (1)   Performance bond.
         (a)   The subdivider may post a performance bond at the time of
application for subdivision approval in an amount equal to 150% of the present
cost of all required improvements.
         (b)   Such performance bond shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the Town Attorney as to form,
sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in this title.
         (c)   The period within which required improvements must be completed
shall be specified by the Town Council in the resolution approving the final
subdivision plat and shall be incorporated in the bond and shall not, in any
event, exceed two years from the date of final approval.
         (d)   Such bond shall be approved by the Town Council as to amount and
surety and conditions satisfactory to the governing body.
         (e)   The Town Council may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the
Town Council extension of the completion date set forth in such bond for a
maximum period of one additional year.
         (f)   The Town Council may at any time during the period of such bond
accept a substitution of principal of sureties on the bond upon recommendation
of the Town Council.
      (2)   Escrow account.
         (a)   The subdivider shall deposit cash, or collateral readily
convertible to cash at face value, either with the Town Council or in escrow
with a bank in an amount equal to 150% of the present cost of all required
improvements. The use of collateral other than cash, and the selection of the
bank with which funds are to be deposited are subject to the approval of the
Town Council.
         (b)   When an escrow account is to be employed, the subdivider shall
file with the Town Council his or her agreement with the bank guaranteeing the
following:
            1.   The funds in the escrow account are to be held in trust until
released by the Town Council and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider
as security for an obligation during that period; and
            2.   In case the subdivider fails to complete the required
improvements, the bank shall immediately make the funds in escrow available to
the town for the completion of these improvements.
      (3)   Property escrow. The subdivider may offer as a guarantee land or
other property equal in value to 150% of the present cost of all required
improvements. A qualified real estate appraiser shall establish the value of
any real property so used and, in so doing, shall take into account the
possibility of a decline or rise in the value of the property during the
guarantee period. The Town Council reserves the right to reject the use as
collateral of any property when the value of the property is unstable, when the
property may be difficult to sell, or when other factors exist which will
inhibit the Town Council from exchanging the property for an amount of money
sufficient to complete the required improvements. When property is offered as
an improvement guarantee, the subdivider shall:
         (a)   Execute an agreement with the escrow agent when it is not the
town, instructing the agent to release the property to the town in the case of
default. The agreement shall be placed on file with the County Clerk;
         (b)   File with the Town Council a title insurance policy affirming
that the property to be used as guarantee is free and clear of any encumbrances
or liens at the time it is to be put in escrow; and
         (c)   Execute and file with the Town Council an agreement stating that
the property to be placed in escrow as an improvement guarantee will not be
used for any other purpose, or pledged as a security in any other matter, until
it is released by the Town Council. Such agreement shall be sufficient to
constitute a lien on the real property pledged in favor of the town on the real
property.
      (4)   Irrevocable letter of credit. Subject to the approval of the Town
Council, the subdivider shall provide an irrevocable letter of credit from a
bank or other reputable institution or individual. This letter shall be
deposited with the Town Council and shall verify the following.
         (a)   The creditor guarantees funds in an amount equal to 150% of the
present cost, as estimated by the Council, of completing all required
improvements.
         (b)   If the subdivider fails to complete the specified improvements
within the required period, the creditor will pay to the town immediately, and
without further action, such funds as are necessary to finance the completion
of those improvements, up to the limit of credit stated in the letter.
         (c)   This irrevocable letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or
reduced in amount until released by the Town Council.
      (5)   Construction of improvements prior to final plat recordation. If
the subdivider chooses to construct the required improvements prior to the
recording of the final plat, he or she shall submit the construction plans to
the Town Engineer. A certificate by the subdivider’s engineer on the as built
plans stating the construction conforms to the specifications and standards
contained in or referred to herein must be presented to the Town Council prior
to the approval of the final plat.
   (B)   Assurances shall be maintained for a specific period of time necessary
to ensure completion of the required improvements within the time period
determined by the governing body, not to exceed two years. Extensions of this
period shall be granted only upon timely application by the subdivider to the
governing body and upon consent of the issuer of the assurance and governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3)
§ 12-6-4 AGREEMENT BETWEEN TOWN AND DEVELOPER.
   (A)   Drawing of contract. Upon acceptance of final plat, a contract will be
drawn between the owner and the town to establish in each individual case the
methods of assurance and outlining means of construction improvement and any
other matters pertinent to the development of the subdivision. Such contract
shall impose no additional requirements not contained in this title.
   (B)   Reimbursement of improvement cost to developer by other property
owners. If the agreement required the developer to construct off site
improvements and the Council shall find that other properties shall be
benefited by such improvements, the agreement shall contain a provision that
the town shall not permit the owners of property so benefited to avail
themselves of the improvements until they shall have reimbursed the developer
on an equitable basis to be determined by the Council, for their pro rata share
of the original cost of the improvements; provided, that no such reimbursement
shall be required unless the developer shall have furnished the Council a
certified statement of the original cost of the improvements within 30 days
after completion thereof; and provided further, that the developer’s right to
reimbursement shall terminate not later than five years from date of completion
of the specific improvement for which reimbursement is sought.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-4)
§ 12-6-5 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Time of issuance. The issuance of certificates of occupancy prior to
completion of required improvements is discouraged. Whenever, by reason of the
season of the year, any improvements required by the subdivision regulations
cannot be performed, the Building Inspector may, nevertheless, issue a
certificate of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health, safety, or
general welfare. The guarantee assurance shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   Extent of street improvement. The extent of street improvement shall
be adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupancy and police and
fire equipment, prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-5)
§ 12-6-6 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Time of issuance. No building permit shall be issued for the final 10%
of lots in a subdivision, or if 10% be less than two, for the final two lots of
the subdivision, until all public improvements required by the Planning
Commission for the plat have been fully completed and dedicated to the local
government.
   (B)   Vehicular access. The extent of improvement shall be adequate for
vehicular access by the prospective occupancy and by police and fire equipment,
prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6)
§ 12-6-7 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until initial acceptance of the improvements by the
Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-7)
§ 12-6-8 DETERMINATION OF COMPLETION.
   Upon completion of all improvements required in this title, the subdivider’s
engineer shall provide written certification to the Town Council that all
improvements are completed and in reasonable compliance with the town
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-8)
§ 12-6-9 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Time of acceptance. The town shall not accept the dedication of any
improvements until one year after the date that the improvements certified to
be complete by the subdivider’s licensed engineer are completed. The town may
accept the dedication of all or any portion of the required improvements.
   (B)   Acceptance by resolution. The acceptance of dedicated improvements
shall be by official resolution of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-9)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Wyoming Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WYOMING STATUTES
Wyo. Stat. Cites Code Section
Wyo. Stat. Cites            Code Section
2-4-301                     4-1-1
5-6-101                     1-7-1
6-3-204(a)                  6-4B-1
6-5-101(a)(vi)              6-4B-2
6-10-103                    1-4-1
9-2-405 through 9-2-413     1-6-1
9-2-410                     1-6-1
12-4-101(a)                 4-2-2 
12-4-201(e)                 4-2-2
12-4-201(h)                 4-2-2
12-4-301(a)                 4-2-2
12-4-405                    4-2-2
12-4-407(a)                 4-2-2
12-4-410                    4-2-2
12-4-411                    4-2-2
12-4-412(b)(viii)           4-2-2
12-4-413(d)                 4-2-2
12-4-502                    4-1C-6
12-4-502(e)                 4-2-2
12-4-504(a)                 4-2-2
12-4-601(a)                 4-2-2
12-4-601(b)                 4-2-2
12-5-101(d)                 4-2-2
12-5-201(a)                 4-2-2
12-5-201(e)                 4-2-2
12-5-201(k)                 4-2-2
15-1-103                    1-1-2;
                            5-4-1
15-l-103(a)(xli)            1-4-1
15-1-103(a)(xxi)            5-3-1
15-1-114                    1-1-2
15-1-115                    1-1-2
15-1-116                    1-1-2
15-1-511                    12-1-11
15-1-512                    12-1-11
15-1-601 through 15-1-611   12-1-2
15-1-608                    11-2-5
16-3-101 et seq.            4-1-2
16-3-114                    5-1-4
16-4-403                    1-5-5
31-2-223                    5-4-4
31-5-233                    7-1-4
31-5-235                    4-1B-3
31-9-102(a)(xi)             7-1-3
31-9-405                    7-1-3
31-9-414                    7-1-3
                            5-4-1;
31-13-101 et seq.           5-4-11;
                            5-4-12;
                            5-4-13
33-29-114                   12-2-2
34-4-102 et seq.            9-1-10
34-12-101 through 34-12-115 12-1-2
Title 35, Ch. 9, Art. 1     10-3-1
38-2-101                    1-7-2;
                            1-2-3
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-1-1              1-1-1
1-1-2              1-1-2
1-1-3              1-1-3
1-1-4              1-1-4
1-1-5              1-1-5
1-1-6              1-1-6
1-2-1              1-2-1
1-2-2              1-2-2
1-2-3              1-2-3
1-2-4              1-2-4
1-2-5              1-2-5
1-3-1              1-3-1
1-3-2              1-3-2
1-3-3              1-3-3
1-4-1              1-4-1
1-4-2              1-4-2
1-4-3              1-4-3
1-4-4              1-4-4
1-5-1              1-5-1
1-5-2              1-5-2
1-5-3              1-5-3
1-5-4              1-5-4
1-5-5              1-5-5
1-5-6              1-5-6
1-6-1              1-6-1
1-6-2              1-6-2
1-6-3              1-6-3
1-6-4              1-6-4
1-6-5              1-6-5
1-6-6              1-6-6
1-7-1              1-7-1
1-7-2              1-7-2
1-7-3              1-7-3
2-1-1              2-1-1
2-1-2              2-1-2
2-1-3              2-1-3
2-1-4              2-1-4
2-1-5              2-1-5
2-1-6              2-1-6
2-2-1              2-2-1
2-2-2              2-2-2
2-2-3              2-2-3
2-2-4              2-2-4
2-2-5              2-2-5
2-2-6              2-2-6
4-1-1              4-1-1
4-1-2              4-2-2
4-1A-1             4-1A-1
4-1A-2             4-1A-2
4-1A-3             4-1A-3
4-1A-4             4-1A-4
4-1A-5             4-1A-5
4-1A-6             4-1A-6
4-1A-7             4-1A-7
4-1B-1             4-1B-1
4-1B-2             4-1B-2
4-1B-3             4-1B-3
4-1B-4             4-1B-4
4-1B-5             4-1B-5
4-1B-6             4-1B-6
4-1C-1             4-1C-1
4-1C-2             4-1C-2
4-1C-3             4-1C-3
4-1C-4             4-1C-4
4-1C-5             4-1C-5
4-1C-6             4-1C-6
4-1D-1             4-1D-1
4-1D-2             4-1D-2
4-1D-3             4-1D-3
4-1D-4             4-1D-4
4-1D-5             4-1D-5
4-1D-6             4-1D-6
4-2-1              4-2-1
4-2-2              4-2-2
4-2-3              4-2-3
4-3-1              4-3-1
4-3-2              4-3-2
4-3-3              4-3-3
4-3-4              4-3-4
4-3-5              4-3-5
4-3-6              4-3-6
4-4-1              4-4-1
4-4-2              4-4-2
4-4-3              4-4-3
4-4-4              4-4-4
4-4-5              4-4-5
4-4-6              4-4-6
4-4-7              4-4-7
4-4-8              4-4-8
4-5-1              4-5-1
4-5-2              4-5-2
4-5-3              4-5-3
4-5-4              4-5-4
4-5-5              4-5-5
4-5-6              4-5-6
4-5-7              4-5-7
4-5-8              4-5-8
4-5-9              4-5-9
4-5-10             4-5-10
4-5-11             4-5-11
5-1-1              5-1-1
5-1-2              5-1-2
5-1-3              5-1-3
5-1-4              5-1-4
5-1-5              5-1-5
5-1-6              5-1-6
5-1-7              5-1-7
5-1-8              5-1-8
5-1-9              5-1-9
5-1-10             5-1-10
5-1-11             5-1-11
5-2-1              5-2-1
5-2-2              5-2-2
5-2-3              5-2-3
5-2-4              5-2-4
5-2-5              5-2-5
5-3-1              5-3-1
5-3-2              5-3-2
5-3-3              5-3-3
5-3-4              5-3-4
5-3-5              5-3-5
5-3-6              5-3-6
5-4-1              5-4-1
5-4-2              5-4-2
5-4-3              5-4-3
5-4-4              5-4-4
5-4-5              5-4-5
5-4-6              5-4-6
5-4-7              5-4-7
5-4-8              5-4-8
5-4-9              5-4-9
5-4-10             5-4-10
5-4-11             5-4-11
5-4-12             5-4-12
5-4-13             5-4-13
5-4-14             5-4-14
5-4-15             5-4-15
6-1-1              6-1-1
6-1-2              6-1-2
6-2-1              6-2-1
6-2-2              6-2-2
6-2-3              6-2-3
6-2-4              6-2-4
6-2-5              6-2-5
6-2-6              6-2-6
6-2-7              6-2-7
6-2-8              6-2-8
6-2-9              6-2-9
6-2-10             6-2-10
6-2-11             6-2-11
6-2-12             6-2-12
6-2-13             6-2-13
6-2-14             6-2-14
6-2-15             6-2-15
6-2-16             6-2-16
6-2-17             6-2-17
6-2-18             6-2-18
6-2-19             6-2-19
6-2-20             6-2-20
6-3-1              6-3-1
6-3-2              6-3-2
6-3-3              6-3-3
6-3-4              6-3-4
6-3-5              6-3-5
6-3-6              6-3-6
6-3-7              6-3-7
6-3-8              6-3-8
6-3-9              6-3-9
6-3-10             6-3-10
6-3-11             6-3-11
6-3-12             6-3-12
6-3-13             6-3-13
6-3-14             6-3-14
6-3-15             6-3-15
6-3-16             6-3-16
6-3-17             6-3-17
6-3-18             6-3-18
6-3A-1             6-3A-1
6-3A-2             6-3A-2
6-3A-3             6-3A-3
6-3A-4             6-3A-4
6-3A-5             6-3A-5
6-3A-6             6-3A-6
6-3A-7             6-3A-7
6-3A-8             6-3A-8
6-3A-9             6-3A-9
6-3A-10            6-3A-10
6-3A-11            6-3A-11
6-4-1              6-4-1
6-4-2              6-4-2
6-4A-1             6-4A-1
6-4A-2             6-4A-2
6-4A-3             6-4A-3
6-4A-4             6-4A-4
6-4B-1             6-4B-1
6-4B-2             6-4B-2
6-4B-3             6-4B-3
6-4B-4             6-4B-4
6-5-1              6-5-1
6-5-2              6-5-2
7-1-1              7-1-1
7-1-2              7-1-2
7-1-3              7-1-3
7-1-4              7-1-4
7-1-5              7-1-5
7-1-6              7-1-6
7-1-7              7-1-7
7-1-8              7-1-8
7-2-1              7-2-1
7-2-2              7-2-2
7-2-3              7-2-3
7-2-4              7-2-4
7-2-5              7-2-5
7-2-6              7-2-6
7-3-1              7-3-1
7-3-2              7-3-2
7-3-3              7-3-3
7-3-4              7-3-4
7-3-5              7-3-5
7-4-1              7-4-1
7-4-2              7-4-2
7-4-3              7-4-3
7-4-4              7-4-4
7-4-5              7-4-5
7-4-6              7-4-6
7-4-7              7-4-7
7-4-8              7-4-8
7-4-9              7-4-9
7-4-10             7-4-10
7-4-11             7-4-11
7-4-12             7-4-12
7-4-13             7-4-13
7-4-14             7-4-14
7-4-15             7-4-15
7-4-16             7-4-16
7-4-17             7-4-17
7-5-1              7-5-1
7-5-2              7-5-2
7-5-3              7-5-3
7-5-4              7-5-4
7-5-5              7-5-5
7-5-6              7-5-6
7-5-7              7-5-7
7-5-8              7-5-8
8-1-1              8-1-1
8-1-2              8-1-2
8-2-1              8-2-1
8-2-2              8-2-2
8-2-3              8-2-3
8-2-4              8-2-4
8-2-5              8-2-5
8-2-6              8-2-6
8-2-7              8-2-7
8-2-8              8-2-8
8-2-9              8-2-9
8-2-10             8-2-10
8-2-11             8-2-11
8-2-12             8-2-12
8-2-13             8-2-13
8-2-14             8-2-14
8-3-1              8-3-1
8-3-2              8-3-2
8-3-3              8-3-3
8-3-4              8-3-4
8-3-5              8-3-5
8-3-6              8-3-6
8-3-7              8-3-7
8-3-8              8-3-8
8-4-1              8-4-1
8-4-2              8-4-2
8-4-3              8-4-3
8-4-4              8-4-4
9-1-1              9-1-1
9-1-2              9-1-2
9-1-3              9-1-3
9-1-4              9-1-4
9-1-5              9-1-5
9-1-6              9-1-6
9-1-7              9-1-7
9-1-8              9-1-8
9-1-9              9-1-9
9-1-10             9-1-10
9-1-11             9-1-11
9-1-12             9-1-12
9-1-13             9-1-13
9-1-14             9-1-14
9-1-15             9-1-15
9-1-16             9-1-16
9-1-17             9-1-17
9-1-18             9-1-18
9-1-19             9-1-19
9-1-20             9-1-20
9-1-21             9-1-21
9-1-22             9-1-22
9-2-1              9-2-1
9-2-2              9-2-2
9-2-3              9-2-3
9-2-4              9-2-4
9-2-5              9-2-5
9-2-6              9-2-6
9-2-7              9-2-7
9-2A-1             9-2A-1
9-2A-2             9-2A-2
9-2A-3             9-2A-3
9-2A-4             9-2A-4
9-2A-5             9-2A-5
9-2A-6             9-2A-6
9-2A-7             9-2A-7
9-2B-1             9-2B-1
9-2B-2             9-2B-2
9-2B-3             9-2B-3
9-2B-4             9-2B-4
9-2B-5             9-2B-5
9-2B-6             9-2B-6
9-2B-7             9-2B-7
9-2B-8             9-2B-8
9-2B-9             9-2B-9
9-3-1              9-3-1
9-3-2              9-3-2
9-3-3              9-3-3
9-3-4              9-3-4
9-3-5              9-3-5
9-3-6              9-3-6
9-3-7              9-3-7
9-3-8              9-3-8
10-1-1             10-1-1
10-1-2             10-1-2
10-1-3             10-1-3
10-1-4             10-1-4
10-1-5             10-1-5
10-1-6             10-1-6
10-2-1             10-2-1
10-3-1             10-3-1
11-1-1             11-1-1
11-1-2             11-1-2
11-1-3             11-1-3
11-2-1             11-2-1
11-2-2             11-2-2
11-2-3             11-2-3
11-2-4             11-2-4
11-2-5             11-2-5
11-2-6             11-2-6
11-2-7             11-2-7
11-3-1             11-3-1
11-3-2             11-3-2
11-4-1             11-4-1
11-4-2             11-4-2
11-4-3             11-4-3
11-4-4             11-4-4
11-4-5             11-4-5
11-4-6             11-4-6
11-4-7             11-4-7
11-4-8             11-4-8
11-5-1             11-5-1
11-5-2             11-5-2
11-5-3             11-5-3
12-1-1             12-1-1
12-1-2             12-1-2
12-1-3             12-1-3
12-1-4             12-1-4
12-1-5             12-1-5
12-1-6             12-1-6
12-1-7             12-1-7
12-1-8             12-1-8
12-1-9             12-1-9
12-1-10            12-1-10
12-1-11            12-1-11
12-2-1             12-2-1
12-2-2             12-2-2
12-3-1             12-3-1
12-3-2             12-3-2
12-3-3             12-3-3
12-3-4             12-3-4
12-3-5             12-3-5
12-4-1             12-4-1
12-4-2             12-4-2
12-4-3             12-4-3
12-4-4             12-4-4
12-5-1             12-5-1
12-5-2             12-5-2
12-6-1             12-6-1
12-6-2             12-6-2
12-6-3             12-6-3
12-6-4             12-6-4
12-6-5             12-6-5
12-6-6             12-6-6
12-6-7             12-6-7
12-6-8             12-6-8
12-6-9             12-6-9
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
2022-06  8-18-2022   7-6, Sched. I
2022-07  8-18-2022   7-6, Sched. I
2022-08  8-18-2022   8-4-5
2023-02  2-2-2023    9-1-4
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
229      - -         9-2B-4;
                     9-2B-5
314      2-1-1996    4-3-1—
                     4-3-6
315      6-27-1996   1-5-1
317      10-2-1997   9-2B-8
318      11-20-1997  6-5-2
320      6-17-1999   4-4-2
322      12-2-1999   6-4A-4
335      3-7-2002    11-3-2
340      9-18-2003   1-7-3
                     9-1-1—
                     9-1-3;
                     9-1-5—
342      3-18-2004   9-1-16;
                     9-1-18—
                     9-1-20;
                     9-1-22
345      4-21-2005   5-4-1—
                     5-4-15
347      12-15-2005  5-3-4
350      3-1-2007    5-2-1—
                     5-2-5
                     6-3-1—
                     6-3-6;
352      10-4-2007   6-3-8—
                     6-3-18;
                     6-3A-1—
                     6-3A-11
                     7-1-1—
                     7-1-6;
                     7-2-1—
                     7-2-6;
                     7-3-1—
354      4-3-2008    7-3-5;
                     7-4-1—
                     7-4-14;
                     7-4-16;
                     7-4-17;
                     7-5-1—
                     7-5-8
356      2-19-2009   5-1-3—
                     5-1-10
357      2-19-2009   8-1-2
                     2-1-1—
359      1-7-2010    2-1-6;
                     8-3-1—
                     8-3-8
364      3-1-2012    1-5-1
366      8-16-2012   9-1-17
367      1-10-2013   9-2A-7
368      1-10-2013   9-1-21
369      3-7-2013    10-1-1
370      5-2-2013    9-1-4
381      11-16-2016  4-1C-3
377      4-20-2017   5-1-1
378      4-20-2017   5-1-2
380      6-15-2017   7-1-7;
                     7-1-8
                     4-1-1;
                     4-1-2;
                     4-1B-1;
                     4-1B-3;
381      11-16-2017  4-1B-6;
                     4-1C-6;
                     4-1D-1—
                     4-1D-3;
                     4-1D-6
2018-382 3-15-2018   8-2-1
2018-383 3-15-2018   8-2-9
384      4-5-2018    8-2-2
385      4-5-2018    8-2-14
386      6-7-2018    7-4-2
2018-387 6-7-2018    7-4-15
391      8-15-2019   2-2-1—2-26
392      9-5-2019    5-1-11
394      12-3-2020   1-4-1
395      5-20-2021   1-3-2
397      2-3-2022    1-5-1
398      4-7-2022    2-3-1—
                     2-3-6
                     1-3-1;
                     1-3-2;
                     1-5-1—
                     1-5-3;
                     1-6-5;
                     1-7-2;
                     1-7-3;
                     2-2-3;
                     2-2-6;
                     4-1C-1;
                     4-1C-6;
                     4-2-1;
                     4-2-2;
                     4-3-2;
                     4-4-2;
                     4-5-3;
                     5-1-1—
                     5-1-4;
                     5-1-8;
                     5-1-10;
                     5-1-11;
                     5-3-4;
                     5-3-5;
                     5-4-2—
                     5-4-15;
                     6-2-3;
                     6-2-5;
                     6-2-6;
                     6-2-16;
                     6-3-1;
                     6-3-3—
                     6-3-5;
                     6-3-8;
                     6-3-11;
                     6-3-13;
                     6-3-14;
                     6-3-18;
                     6-3A-1—
2024-01  4-4-2024    6-3A-5;
                     6-3A-7—
                     6-3A-11;
                     6-4-1;
                     6-4-2;
                     6-4A-1—
                     6-4A-4;
                     6-4B-2—
                     6-4B-4;
                     6-5-1;
                     6-5-2;
                     7-1-8;
                     7-4-10;
                     7-4-17;
                     7-5-4;
                     8-1-1;
                     8-3-2;
                     8-3-4;
                     8-4-4;
                     9-1-4;
                     9-1-5;
                     9-1-8;
                     9-1-10—
                     9-1-12;
                     9-2-4;
                     9-2A-3;
                     9-2A-5;
                     9-2B-8;
                     9-2B-9;
                     10-1-6;
                     11-1-3;
                     11-2-3—
                     11-2-5;
                     11-2-7;
                     11-4-3;
                     11-4-4;
                     11-4-7;
                     12-1-10;
                     12-6-1
                    
 
