STAR VALLEY RANCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2021-01
CODIFICATION ADOPTING ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE TOWN OF STAR VALLEY RANCH
Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the code of
the Town of Star Valley Ranch, Wyoming, prepared by American Legal, containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the town,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by American Legal, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general
and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the
official town code is identified by the proper catch line and is inserted in
the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open. Ultimately a copy will be placed on the Town website.
Section 3: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6: That said ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and publications as provided by law.
PASSED ON FIRST READING THIS 20TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2021
____________________________________
Kathleen Buyers, Mayor
____________________________________
Kristin Gray, Town Clerk
 
PASSED ON SECOND READING THIS 17th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2021
____________________________________
Kathleen Buyers, Mayor
____________________________________
Kristin Gray, Town Clerk
PASSED ON THIRD READING THIS 17th DAY OF MARCH, 2021
____________________________________
Kathleen Buyers, Mayor
____________________________________
Kristin Gray, Town Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of
Star Valley Ranch Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this chapter compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Town of Star Valley Ranch, Wyoming.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Star Valley Ranch, Wyoming.
      COUNTY. Lincoln County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(W.S. § 12-2-201)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see W.S. § 12-2-201
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Franchise Fees
   
30.01   General
   
30.02   Administration
FRANCHISE FEES
§ 30.01 GENERAL.
   In accordance with W.S. § 15-1-103, the town will contract for franchise
fees for all utilities as defined in W.S. Title 37, Public Utilities § 37-1-
102, use the town right-of-way associated with our town road system to provide
services to our residents. Under current statute definitions, the fee would be
charged to companies like Silver Star Communication and Lower Valley Energy.
(Prior Code, § 15.010.010)
§ 30.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Council will approve all contracts with utilities using the town’s
rights-of-way to provide services to our residents, and the Town Administrator
shall ensure the terms of the contracts are executed.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.020)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   General provisions
   
31.02   Concurrent elections
   
31.03   Nominations
   
31.04   General municipal election
   
31.05   Offices and terms
   
31.06   Terms of office after first election
   
31.07   Special elections
   
31.08   Election omission
§ 31.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Laws governing costs. Unless otherwise specifically provided, a
municipal election shall be governed by laws regulating state-wide elections.
The municipality holding any election shall pay the actual costs of the
election, or an equitably proportioned share of a concurrent election as
determined by the County Clerk.
   (B)   Qualifications of municipal officers. All municipal offices are
nonpartisan, and municipal officers shall be qualified electors residing in the
municipality and any ward established under W.S. §§ 22-23-103 or 15-11-105(b).
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.02 CONCURRENT ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Conduct; who may vote.
      (1)   Except as provided in W.S. § 22-23-202, municipal primary and
general elections are held at the same time, in the same manner, at the same
polling places, and are conducted by the same precinct officials, using the
same poll lists, as the statewide primary and general elections.
      (2)   Only voters residing in precincts within a municipality may vote in
its elections.
   (B)   Certification and printing of ballot propositions. A municipal ballot
proposition to be voted on at a general election shall be certified by the
Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk not less than 60 days before the general
election and shall be printed on the municipal ballot by the County Clerk
unless state law provides otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.03 NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   Municipal officers. All candidates for municipal office shall be
nominated at the municipal primary election. In order to be eligible, a
candidate must be a registered voter and a resident of the municipality and
ward which he or she seeks to represent on the day the petition is filed, and
shall not be an employee of the municipality. As used in this section, the term
EMPLOYEE includes only those persons receiving an hourly wage or salary from a
municipality. A person who provides volunteer services to a municipality shall
not be considered an “employee” under this section based solely upon coverage
under the State Worker’s Compensation Act or other pension, death or disability
program.
   (B)   Filing fee; petition form. Not more than 96 days and not later than 81
days preceding the municipal primary election, each candidate for a municipal
office shall pay a nonrefundable filing fee of $25 and sign and file with the
Municipal Clerk a petition in substantially the following form:
THE STATE OF WYOMING
   {'}'} ss
County of Lincoln
I, ...., the undersigned, swear or affirm that I was born on ...., ....(year),
and that I have been a resident of the State of Wyoming since ...., residing at
...., and that I am a registered voter of Election District No. ...., Precinct
No. ...., in Ward No. ...., in the Town of Star Valley Ranch, and the State of
Wyoming as of the closing of the Municipal Clerk’s office on the day this
petition is filed, do hereby petition and request that my name be printed upon
the Official Municipal Primary Ballot at the next primary election as a
candidate for the office of ..... I hereby declare that if nominated and
elected I will qualify for the office.
Dated:                  
                                          (Signature of Candidate)
                                          (Residence Address)
   (C)   Certification of candidates; names on ballots. Not later than 68 days
prior to the primary election, the Municipal Clerk shall certify to the County
Clerk the names of all qualified candidates for nomination at the municipal
primary election and the office they seek and shall print the names on the
primary election ballot. The number of municipal candidates the voters are
entitled to vote for at the primary election is the number of candidates to be
elected to municipal offices at the general election.
   (D)   Ballot form. The County Clerk shall prepare the municipal primary
ballot as provided in W.S. § 22-6 for nonpartisan ballots.
   (E)   Candidates nominated; certificate of nomination. The candidates equal
to twice the number to be elected to each office who receive the highest number
of votes are nominated to run for the office at the next general election and
shall be issued a certificate of nomination by the County Clerk. A write-in
candidate shall not be nominated and shall not be entitled to have his or her
name printed on the ballot for the next general election unless he or she
received at least three votes.
   (F)   Vacancies in nomination.
      (1)   A vacancy in nomination for a municipal office to be filled at a
general election occurs if:
         (a)   A candidate nominated at a primary election declines to accept
the nomination, dies, moves his or her residence from his or her constituency
or becomes disqualified to hold the office for any reason provided by law; or
         (b)   After the primary election, there are no nomination applications
for the office of Mayor or Council member.
      (2)   A vacancy in nomination shall be filled by the Municipal Clerk
notifying the person who received the next highest number of votes at the
municipal primary election as shown on the official county canvass, or, if no
other candidate exists, the vacancy in nomination may be filled by the
governing body of the municipality.
      (3)   Not less than 60 days prior to the general election, the Municipal
Clerk shall certify to the County Clerk the names of all qualified candidates
who have accepted nomination by write-in vote and those nominated by the
governing body and the office they seek. The names shall be printed on the
general election ballot.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.04 GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
   (A)   Preparation of ballots and voting machine labels; cost. The County
Clerk shall prepare ballots which shall be in substantially the same form as
the general election nonpartisan ballot, and voting machine ballot labels for
the municipal general election. The name of every candidate legally qualified
to appear on the ballot and all municipal ballot propositions to be voted on at
the election shall be printed thereon. The cost of preparing the municipal
ballots shall be determined by the County Clerk and paid by the municipality.
   (B)   Commencement of term of office. The term of office of a person elected
at the municipal general election commences on the first Monday in January
following the general election.
   (C)   Constitutional oath required. Before entering his or her duties, a
person elected to a municipal office shall sign and file with the Town Clerk
the same constitutional oath of office as county officers.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.040) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.05 OFFICES AND TERMS.
   The elective officers of an incorporated town are one Mayor and four Council
members. The term of office of Mayor and Council member is four years, and
until his or her successor is qualified. They are elected at large.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.050) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.06 TERMS OF OFFICE AFTER FIRST ELECTION.
   At the first meeting of the Council after the first election in a newly
incorporated city or town, two of the Council members first elected shall be
selected by lots to serve four-year terms and two to serve two year terms. At
each subsequent general election, two Council members shall be elected to serve
a four-year term.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.060) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.07 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   “Special election” defined. As used in this chapter, including W.S. §§
22-23-801 through 22-23-809, the term SPECIAL ELECTION means a municipal
election on any question which may legally be submitted to the voters of a
municipality other than at a regular municipal primary or general election or
an election on the question of whether to incorporate.
   (B)   Proclamation; supplementation of advertisement. The date of a special
election and the location of polling places shall be proclaimed by the
governing body of the municipality not more than 30 nor less than 15 days
before the special election. The proclamation shall state the purpose of the
election and shall be published at least twice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The advertisement may be supplemented by the
county or municipality as provided by W.S. § 22-20-104(b).
   (C)   Polling places; election judges. The governing body shall designate
sufficient polling places to permit convenient voting and shall designate a
sufficient number of qualified electors resident in the municipality to serve
as judges of election. The judges of election at a municipal special election
shall discharge the same duties as the judges of election at a regular
statewide election.
   (D)   Ballots. The Municipal Clerk shall provide ballots for the special
election and shall deliver to each precinct polling place ballots equal in
number to the number of electors registered in the precinct plus 25%.
   (E)   Poll lists. Precinct poll lists for the special election shall be
obtained by the Municipal Clerk from the County Clerk and shall be paid for by
the municipality. The Municipal Clerk shall furnish copies of the precinct poll
lists to the judges of election. A copy of the precinct registry list shall be
posted at each precinct polling place during the special election.
   (F)   Entries in and delivery of poll book; elector not on lists. The judges
of election shall make the same entries in the poll book as are required for
statewide elections. Following the election, the poll book shall be delivered
to the Municipal Clerk. If the name of a person offering to vote at a special
municipal election is not on the poll lists, he or she may qualify to vote by
signing an affidavit and if a judge of election obtains verification from the
County Clerk as provided in W.S. §§ 22-15-105 and 22-15-106.
   (G)   Vote count and certification. After the polls are closed, the judges
of election shall count the vote and certify the result in writing to the
Municipal Clerk.
   (H)   Canvassing vote; tie vote. The governing body of the municipality
shall meet not later than three days after the election at the time specified
by the Mayor to canvass the result of the special election. A tie vote shall be
broken by lots cast by the governing body.
   (I)   Certification of election results. The governing body shall certify
the result of the special election in writing and immediately post a copy of
the certification in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk
shall mail a copy of the proclamation to the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.070) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
§ 31.08 ELECTION OMISSION.
   In the event of an “omission,” W.S. §§ 22-23-101 through 2-23-1007 and W.S.
§§ 15-11-101 through 15-11-205 shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.080) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 5- -2006)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Definitions
Mayor and Town Council
   
32.02   Authority to adopt personnel policies, rules and regulations
   
32.03   Duties of the Mayor
   
32.04   Rules of procedure
Vacancies; Mayor or Council Members
   
32.05   Deemed to exist
   
32.06   Procedure for declaring vacancy
   
32.07   Entitlement to public hearing
   
32.08   Filling a vacancy
Appointed Officers; Municipal Judge
   
32.09   Municipal Judge; number and jurisdiction
   
32.10   Municipal Judge; appointment and compensation
   
32.11   Municipal Judge; bond
Town Administrator
   
32.12   Town administrator; establishment of position
   
32.13   Qualifications
   
32.14   Functions and duties
   
32.15   Relationship of governing body and town council to town administrator
   
32.16   Employment; salary
   
32.17   Notice of resignation; interim administrator
Town Clerk and Treasurer
   
32.18   Clerk and Treasurer
   
32.19   Duties of town clerk
   
32.20   Duties of town treasurer
Special Municipal Officers
   
32.21   Special municipal officers; appointment
Interfering with Employees
   
32.22   Town employees, interfering with
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCILMAN OR COUNCILMEN. The individuals elected to comprise the governing
body of the town.
   GOVERNING BODY. The council constituting the elected legislative body of the
town including the mayor who is the presiding officer.
   MAYOR.  The person elected, either by popular vote or by vote of the
governing body, to exercise the powers of the office and to be presiding
officer of the governing body.
   ORDINANCE.  A legislative enactment of general effect validly adopted by the
governing body of the town.
   TOWN.  The incorporated municipality of Star Valley Ranch.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
§ 32.02 AUTHORITY TO ADOPT PERSONNEL POLICIES, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   The mayor and designated representatives, with the approval of the council,
are authorized to adopt and establish uniform personnel policies and procedures
in the recruitment, promotion, working hours, compensation, retirement, sick
leave, vacations, and other employee benefits and to adopt and establish
uniform rules and regulations applicable to all town employees.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The mayor shall:
   (A)   Preside at all meetings of the governing body, and in the mayor’s
absence a council member shall be appointed to act as mayor pro tem;
   (B)   Have superintending control of all officers and affairs of the town.
   (C)   Oversee compliance with the ordinances and laws;
   (D)   Sign commissions and appointments and all bonds, contracts and other
obligations required to be signed in the name of the town; and
   (E)   Have one (1) vote on all matters coming before the governing body upon
which a vote is taken, except a vote:
      (1)   To override a veto;
      (2)   To confirm an appointment other than a vote to break a tie vote of
the governing body; and
   (F)   Pursuant to a hearing for removal or discharge as provided in W.S.
Sections 15-2-102(b)(iv)(C) or 15-3-204(b)(iv)(C) (2007).
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.04 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The governing body shall adopt Robert’s Rules of Order in its entirety as
the established parliamentary authority to govern the mayor and council in all
cases. Such rules of procedure shall apply to all future revisions and editions
of Robert’s Rules of Order made hereto.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
VACANCIES; MAYOR OR COUNCIL MEMBERS
§ 32.05 DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A vacancy in the position of a Mayor or Council members shall be deemed to
exist when a majority of the Mayor and all elected Council members determine
that a Mayor or Council member:
   (A)   Is no longer a resident of the town;
   (B)   Has been convicted of a felony;
   (C)   Has been determined to be insane or mentally incompetent;
   (D)   Has become disqualified from holding office for any reason specified
by law;
   (E)   Has had his or her term expired when no successor has been elected and
qualified;
   (F)   Has refused to take the oath of office;
   (G)   Has had his or her election voided;
   (H)   Has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or
constituting a breach of his or her oath of office;
   (I)   (1)   Has, as determined by a majority of the Town Council, failed to
perform his or her duties in the manner necessary to adequately represent the
citizens of the town. For the purposes of this section, TOWN COUNCIL shall be
deemed to include the Mayor and Council members.
      (2)   In determining if a Mayor or Council member has failed to perform
his or her required duties, the following shall be deemed as conclusive
evidence:
         (a)   Three or more consecutive unexcused or unexplained absences from
duly called Council meetings during his or her term; and
         (b)   Being physically absent from the town for 90 days or more so as
to make it impossible for the Mayor or Council member to be aware of or
involved in the business of the town. [Note that virtual participation of a
Council member (by telephonic or video conference means) is limited to no more
than three (3) meetings in a (1) year period whether regular, special, or
emergency meetings without the approval of the Mayor.]
      (3)   Specifically, as to determine if a Mayor has failed to perform his
or her required duties, the Town Council must find that the Mayor has failed to
assume the superintending control of the officers, employees and affairs of the
town and any other duties required by law.
   (J)   Has died; or
   (K)   Resigns.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.06 PROCEDURE FOR DECLARING VACANCY.
   Procedure for declaring a vacancy shall be as follows.
   (A)   Upon investigation by the Council or its designated official, and a
determination of the existence of a copy of a certified copy of an order or a
court of competent jurisdiction, a vacancy shall be deemed to exist with
respect of §
32.05(C), (D) or (G).
   (B)   The Mayor or Council member shall be deemed a nonresident and a
vacancy therefor to exist as a §
32.05(A), when he or she shall have failed to occupy a place of fixed,
permanent and customary place of habitation, within the boundaries of the
municipality for a period of at least 180 days during each calendar year.
   (C)   A Mayor or Council member shall be deemed to have been convicted of a
felony, a crime involving moral turpitude, or a breach of his or her oath of
office as to §
32.05(B) or (H) upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of a court of
competent jurisdiction showing a conviction, plea of guilty or plea of nolo
contendere.
   (D)   As to §
32.05(J), the death of the Mayor or Council member shall be evidenced by a
certificate.
   (E)   As to §
32.05(K), a resignation shall be deemed effective and a vacancy to have
occurred as follows:
      (1)   A Mayor or Council member desiring to resign from his or her
position on the governing body, shall submit a resignation in writing to the
Municipal Clerk specifying the date he or she desires the resignation to be
effective, which date shall not be more than 30 days after the postmark date of
the letter if mailed, or after the date of delivery to the Municipal Clerk.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall place the question of resignation before
the governing body for acceptance or rejection at a special meeting or at the
regular meeting next succeeding the postmark date of the letter of resignation
or the delivery thereof to the Municipal Clerk.
      (3)   The resignation may be withdrawn at any time prior to acceptance or
rejection by the governing body; provided, that a request for withdrawal of a
resignation must also be in writing and received by the Municipal Clerk prior
to the agenda day of the special or regular meeting at which the resignation
shall be considered.
      (4)   The resignation, unless withdrawn as stated in division (C) above,
shall be deemed effective and a vacancy to exist on the date requested by the
resigning Mayor or Council member and/or a date determined by the governing
body.
   (F)   The refusal of the Mayor or Council member to take the oath of office,
as required by law, at the time and place and before the person designated,
shall constitute a failure to take the oath as required by §
32.05(F) and a vacancy shall be deemed to exist at said time.
   (G)   Relating to actions taken pursuant to §§
32.05 and
32.06, an abstention by any voting member of the governing body shall be
considered a no vote.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.07 ENTITLEMENT TO PUBLIC HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by the determination of the governing body on a vacancy
shall be entitled to an informal public hearing before the governing body and
may be represented by legal counsel, after which the governing body shall
confirm, modify or reverse an earlier determination.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.08 FILLING A VACANCY.
   Once determined to exist, a vacancy shall be filled as follows.
   (A)   A vacancy may be filled by the governing body by appointment of a
temporary successor to serve until a permanent successor is appointed for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Upon the declaration by the governing body that a vacancy exists or
will exist, the governing body shall then publicly solicit applications from
qualified electors to fill the vacancy, except a vacancy in the office of
Mayor, which must be filled by an existing member of the Town Council.
   (C)   The term QUALIFIED ELECTOR includes every citizen in the United States
who is a bona fide resident of the municipality, who has registered to vote and
who is at least 18 years of age. No person is a qualified elector who is a
mentally incompetent person or who has been convicted of a felony and whose
civil rights have not been reassured or who is otherwise barred from holding
office by reason of state or federal law.
   (D)   The application shall be submitted on a form approved by the governing
body which form shall require that the applicant submit information
establishing applicant’s legal qualifications to hold office.
   (E)   The governing body shall specify a time period for submitting
applications and shall then review applications received and may conduct any
further review of candidates deemed necessary and, by a majority vote of all
members of the governing body, shall appoint a temporary successor.
   (F)   Should selection of a Council member or Mayor occur prior to the
effective date of the vacancy and the member vacating the seat has resigned,
that Mayor or Council member will be allowed a vote in the selection process
for Mayor and/or Council member successor.
   (G)   In the event that there is a tie in the vote for Mayor and/or Council
member, the decided vote will be determined by the toss of a coin. To decide as
to who is heads and who is tails, the Town Attorney shall put the names in a
hat and have one drawn. The one drawn shall be heads with the other one being
tails. The attorney shall toss the coin and determine the one to fill the
vacancy.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
APPOINTED OFFICERS; MUNICIPAL JUDGE
§ 32.09 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; NUMBER AND JURISDICTION.
   The mayor, by and with the consent of the governing body, shall appoint a
municipal judge, a town administrator, town clerk and treasurer, and special
municipal officer.
   Pursuant to W.S. Title 5, Chapter 6, the Municipal Court of the town shall
have one Judge, with jurisdiction as prescribed by the general laws of the
state, and by general laws of the town not inconsistent with state law.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.10 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Municipal Judge shall be appointed as provided by state law.
Compensation shall be established by the Town Council at the time of
appointment and, from time-to-time thereafter, as deemed appropriate by the
Town Council. The Town Council may, under such terms as the Town Council deems
appropriate, employ the Municipal Judge as a town employee or by contract.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.11 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; BOND.
   A bond in the amount of $25,000 shall be given to the town by the Municipal
Judge and shall be conditioned on the performance of the Judge’s duties in
accordance with law and ordinance of the town, including the duty to turn over
to the town all monies collected by him or her by virtue of his or her office.
The expense of the bond shall be paid by the town.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 32.12 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR; ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.
   There is hereby created and established the position of town administrator
of the town.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.13 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The town administrator shall be selected on the basis of executive and
administrative training, experience and education, and such other
qualifications as may be specified by the governing body from time to time. The
position shall be appointed pursuant to a majority vote of the governing body.
The position shall be established by contract as approved by the governing
body. The town administrator shall only be removed from office pursuant to a
majority vote of the governing body.
   At the time of appointment, the town administrator need not be a resident of
the town or state, but within a reasonable time as set by the council following
appointment, shall at a minimum move to the state and reside in the Star Valley
area of Lincoln County. Permanent residence within the Town of Star Valley
Ranch is strongly preferred during the town administrator’s employment.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.14 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The town administrator shall be responsible to the governing body and shall
work to ensure the proper administration of all affairs of the town placed in
his or her charge. The governing body shall interact with the town staff,
administration, operation, and policies of the town through the town
administrator. The governing body may direct the town administrator to provide
information, updates, and explanations of decisions, policies, projects, and
the work of staff. The town administrator is responsible for performing the
following duties:
   (A)   Oversee the operation of the day-to-day administration of the town.
   (B)   Supervise the enforcement of all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations,
policies, and procedures of the town adopted by the governing body.
   (C)   Be responsible to the governing body for the administration of all
departments of the town, save and except the municipal court judge; and to and
directly supervise the department heads having primary responsibility for the
operation of such departments.
   (D)   Participate in the hiring of all department heads; exercise
administrative authority in the hiring and removal of subordinate department
employees upon consultation with the department heads having primary
responsibility for the operation of such departments. The administrator shall
notify the governing body of dismissals, terminations, and demotions in a
timely fashion. The administrator shall notify the governing body of newly
hired employees, transfers, promotions, and resignations in a timely fashion.
   (E)   To issue such administrative regulations and outline general
administrative procedures applicable to areas and departments assigned to his
or her supervision, in the form of rules which are not in conflict with the
laws of the state of Wyoming or other town ordinances.
   (F)   Recommend to the governing body for adoption such measures as he or
she may deem necessary or proper for the health, safety, and welfare of the
community and for the efficient and proper operation of the town.
   (G)   Coordinate with the town treasurer on the preparation and submission
of a proposed annual budget to the governing body; exercise responsibility for
administration of the annual budget after adoption by the governing body.
   (H)   Coordinate with the town treasurer to keep the governing body fully
informed as to the financial condition of the town.
   (I)   Subject to the requirements of statutes and ordinances, and in
accordance with rules and regulations now or hereafter promulgated by the
governing body, to purchase materials and authorize expenditures of funds on
behalf of the town in coordination with the town clerk and town treasurer.
   (J)   Attend all meetings of the governing body, unless otherwise excused.
   (K)   To perform all other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the
governing body.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.15 RELATIONSHIP OF GOVERNING BODY TO TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The governing body shall deal with that portion of the administrative
service of the town for which the town administrator is responsible for through
the town administrator. Directives issued by the governing body concerning
policies or operations of the town council affecting the area of responsibility
of the town administrator in the administration of any of these departments
shall be made so as to direct the town administrator to accomplish the
necessary orders. The mayor shall ensure the proper administration of such
directives by the town administrator.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.16 EMPLOYMENT; SALARY.
   The governing body shall employ the town administrator and fix his or her
salary. The town administrator shall receive no other or additional salary for
the performance of any duties required of him or her as town administrator. The
town administrator is an employee and serves at the pleasure of the governing
body. The salary may be changed from time-to-time, and the town administrator
may be discharged, and employment terminated at any time by a majority vote of
the governing body.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.17 NOTICE OF RESIGNATION; INTERIM ADMINISTRATOR.
   The town administrator shall give at least 30 days’ notice in writing to the
governing body before resigning the position. The mayor, with the consent of
the governing body, may immediately proceed to appoint another individual as
town administrator. If there is any delay in securing a new or interim
administrator, the mayor shall act as administrator for up to 180 days, at no
additional compensation, and shall be vested with authority and charged with
the duties and responsibilities of the town administrator until a new town
administrator is appointed.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
CLERK AND TREASURER
§ 32.18 CLERK AND TREASURER.
   The mayor, with the consent of the governing body, shall appoint a town
clerk and treasurer for the town of Star Valley Ranch.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.19 DUTIES OF TOWN CLERK.
The duties of the town clerk shall be as follows:
   (A)   To keep safely the seal, papers, records, and books of the town.
   (B)   To attend meetings of the governing body unless excused and record the
minutes thereof.
   (C)   To preserve a consecutive record of all the resolutions and ordinances
passed by the town council in a book kept for that purpose.
   (D)   To attest the signature of the mayor and affix the seal of the town to
documents as necessary.
   (E)   To issue all licenses in accordance with the law.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 32.20 DUTIES OF TOWN TREASURER.
   The duties of the town treasurer shall be as follows:
   (A)   To maintain accounts of the town to show when and from what sources
all monies received have been derived and to whom and when the monies or any
part thereof have been paid out.
   (B)   To keep permanent, accurate and complete accounts and records of all
receipts, orders, and warrants.
   (C)   To make all books, accounts, and vouchers available at all times for
examination by the governing body, the town administrator, or any elector of
the town as may be required.
   (D)   To keep the governing body and town administrator fully informed as to
the financial condition of the town, provide the governing body and town
administrator with a financial report at such times, but not less than
quarterly, and in a form as required by the governing body.
   (E)   To attest all warrants and orders upon the treasurer and keep an
accurate record thereof.
   (F)   To endorse or attach to every bond or other evidence of indebtedness
issued by the town pursuant to the law, a certificate that the same is within
the lawful debt limit of the town and is issued pursuant to law, and to sign
such certificate in his or her official capacity.
   (G)   To endorse the date of presentation across the back of any orders and
warrants which are not paid for lack of funds, and the reason for nonpayment.
   (H)   Maintain primary responsibility for the preparation of a proposed
annual budget for the town and to coordinate with the town administrator on the
submission, and adoption of the proposed annual budget by the governing body.
   (I)   To perform all of the duties of the town treasurer as provided by the
laws of the state, by resolution of the governing body, and as may be directed
by the mayor or town administrator. (Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL OFFICERS
§ 32.21 SPECIAL MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor, with the consent and approval of the Town Council, may appoint
special municipal officers, who are not certified peace officers, acting under
the terms of their appointment under W.S. § 15-1-103(a)(1) with authority to
issue citations to individuals for the purpose of enforcing town ordinances.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
INTERFERING WITH EMPLOYEES
§ 32.22 TOWN EMPLOYEES, INTERFERING WITH.
   No person shall obstruct, harass, prevent, or otherwise interfere be it
physical or verbal in any way with any officer or employee of the Town in the
performance or discharge of his or her duties, nor displace any stakes or
landmarks deposited or installed by any employee. No person shall in any way
molest any Town owned tools, instruments, or equipment used by such employee in
the duties assigned to that employee.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.001   Creation
   
33.002   Appointment
   
33.003   Vacancies and replacement
   
33.004   Organization
   
33.005   Quorum
   
33.006   Minutes/records
   
33.007   Objectives
   
33.008   Open meetings
Reserved
   
33.025   Reserved
Natural Resources Board
   
33.045   Creation
   
33.046   Objectives
   
33.047   Appointment
   
33.048   Vacancies and replacement
   
33.049   Organization
   
33.050   Quorum
   
33.051   Minutes/records
   
33.052   Open meetings
   
33.053   Objectives
Water Utility Board
   
33.065   Creation
   
33.066   Objectives
   
33.067   Appointment
   
33.068   Vacancies and replacement
   
33.069   Minutes/records
   
33.070   Open meetings
   
33.071   Quorum
Finance Advisory Board
   
33.085   Creation
   
33.086   Objectives
   
33.087   Appointment
   
33.088   Vacancies and replacement
   
33.089   Organization
   
33.090   Minutes/records
   
33.091   Open meetings
   
33.092   Quorum
Roads Advisory Board
   
33.110   Creation
   
33.111   Objectives
   
33.112   Appointment
   
33.113   Vacancies and replacement
   
33.114   Organization
   
33.115   Minutes/records
   
33.116   Quorum
Travel And Tourism Board
   
33.120   Creation
   
33.121   Objectives
   
33.122   Appointment
   
33.123   Vacancies and replacement
   
33.124   Organization
   
33.125   Minutes/records
   
33.126   Quorum
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.001 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the town, which shall
consist of four regular members and one alternate member, whom shall be
qualified electors of the town and shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2023-07, passed
- -2023; Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 33.002 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Regular members. The four "regular" members of the Planning Commission
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the Town
Council for a term of three years. Appointments and terms should be staggered
such that a maximum of two will be planned to expire each year at the end of
the town's fiscal year. Members may be eligible for reappointment.
   (B)   Chairperson. The Mayor by title, shall serve as Chairperson of the
Planning Commission. The Chairperson shall only vote in the case of a tie as
the tie-breaking vote.
   (C)   Alternate member. An additional member, known as the "alternate"
member of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
consent and approval of the Town Council for a term of one year. The term will
become effective upon appointment by the Mayor and will expire at the end of
the town's fiscal year. The alternate member may be eligible for reappointment.
The alternate member will have the same responsibilities and duties of a
regular member, except voting will be limited to those situations where the
number of regular members present is less than what is required for a quorum.
   (D)   Expert advice. The Chairperson of the Planning Commission may, from
time to time seek advice or expertise from certain experts to provide advice
and counsel to the Commission. Experts will be sought based on professional
land use skills, knowledge or experience and agree to assist the regular
members on a meeting-by-meeting basis.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2023-1, passed
4-11-2023; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023; Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 33.003 VACANCIES AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Planning Commission will be deemed to exist if one or
more of the following situations occur:
      (1)   A member voluntarily resigns;
      (2)   A member permanently moves outside the town limits and loses his or
her "elector" status;
      (3)   A member becomes incapacitated due to health or accident; or
      (4)   A member dies.
   (B)   The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any member of the
Planning Commission whenever it appears such removal would be in the best
interest of the town.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the Council's consent and approval, shall fill any
vacancy. The replacement shall serve out the term of the vacating member.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2023-07, passed
- -2023; Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 33.004 ORGANIZATION.
    The members of the Planning Commission shall designate their meeting times
and meeting place, and shall create their own rules of procedure. An
administrative official shall provide clerical services.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.040) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2024-18, passed
12-10-2024)
§ 33.005 QUORUM.
   Three members of the Planning Commission at a scheduled meeting shall
constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.050) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2024-18, passed
12-10-2024)
§ 33.006 MINUTES/RECORDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote, the absence or the failure to vote of each member upon each question.
   (B)   The Commission shall keep records of all examinations and of any other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Commission and shall become a public record.
   (C)   Minutes and agendas for meetings shall be published no less than five
(5) business days before any scheduled public meeting. Final approved minutes
shall be published no more than ten (10) business days after approval.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.060) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2023-07, passed
- -2023; Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 33.007 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Duties. The Planning Commission shall, from time to time, either at
its discretion or as requested by the Town Council, submit its reports, plans
and recommendations for the orderly growth, development and welfare of the Town
in accordance with Wyoming Statute Title 15, Articles 5 and 6. The Commission
shall also perform other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or state law;
as follows:
      (1)   Recommend to the Town Council the boundaries of the various
districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced therein under the
ordinances of the Town of Star Valley Ranch, or the laws of the State of
Wyoming;
      (2)   Recommend to the Town Council approval or denial of zoning changes
and regulations under the ordinances of the Town of Star Valley Ranch or the
laws of the State of Wyoming;
      (3)   Review all petitions for rezoning, proposed annexation and
subdivisions, plats, and site plans pursuant to the requirements of the Town
Land Usage Code and to make recommendations to the Town Council on these
matters;
      (4)   Hear, recommend or determine any matter relating to zoning,
planning or subdivision control as may be specified or required under the
ordinances of the Town of Star Valley Ranch, or the laws of the State of
Wyoming;
      (5)   Continually review and propose amendments to the town Master Plan
and certify such proposed amendments to the Town Council; and
      (6)   Exercise those duties and powers as may be now or hereafter
conferred by the ordinances of the Town of Star Valley Ranch, or applicable
laws of the State of Wyoming.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.070) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2012-07, passed
10-9-2012; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023; Ord. 2024-18, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 33.008 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.120) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2024-18, passed
12-10-2024)
RESERVED
§ 33.025 RESERVED.
   This subchapter is reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
NATURAL RESOURCES BOARD
§ 33.045 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Natural Resource Board for the town, which shall
consist of five regular members, the majority of whom shall be qualified
electors of the town, and shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.010) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 33.046 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Natural Resource Board shall promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town by providing
advice and guidance on policies, ordinances and administrative procedures
regarding the use, maintenance, management, preservation, and protection of the
natural resources of the town.
   (B)   The Natural Resource Board shall also provide advice and counsel to
the citizens and the town related to the management of other natural resources,
including, but not limited to, vegetation, soil, water, wildlife, noxious
weeds, invasive plants and pests, outdoor recreation and wildland fire
preparedness.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.020) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2016-02, passed
5-11-2016; Ord. 2017-06, passed 12-13-2017)
§ 33.047 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Regular members. The five “regular” members of the Natural Resource
Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the
Town Council for a term of three years. Appointments and terms should be
staggered such that a maximum of two will be planned to expire each year at the
end of the town’s fiscal year. Members may be eligible for re-appointment.
   (B)   Council Liaison (non-voting). The Mayor shall assign a Councilman as a
liaison to the Natural Resource Board.
   (C)   Alternate member. A special sixth member, known as the "alternate"
member of the Natural Resource Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
consent and approval of the Town Council for a term of one year. The term will
become effective upon appointment by the Mayor and will expire at the end of
the Town's fiscal year. The alternate member may be eligible for reappointment.
The alternate member will have all of the responsibilities and duties of the
regular member, except voting will be limited to those situations where the
number of regular members present is less than five. The minimum number of
Natural Resource Board members present, for quorum requirements, at the Natural
Resource Board meeting remains three, with the "alternate" member's attendance
counting if necessary.
   (D)   Advisory members. The Chairperson of the Natural Resources Board may,
from time to time, appoint certain advisory members to provide advice and
counsel to the Board. Advisory members will be appointed based on special
skills, knowledge or experience and agree to assist the regular members.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.030) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2023-07, passed
- -2023)
§ 33.048 VACANCIES AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Natural Resource Board will be deemed to exist if one
of the following situations occurs:
      (1)   A member voluntarily resigns;
      (2)   A member becomes incapacitated due to health or accident;
      (3)   A member becomes mentally incompetent;
      (4)   A member dies; or
      (5)   The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any member of the
Natural Resources Board whenever it appears such removal would be in the best
interest of the town.
   (B)   The Mayor with the Council’s consent and approval shall fill any
vacancy. The replacement shall serve out the term of the vacating member.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.040) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 33.049 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Natural Resource Board shall elect from their number a
Chairperson, designate their meeting times and meeting place and shall create
their own rules of procedure.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.050) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2023-07, passed
- -2023)
§ 33.050 QUORUM.
   Three regular members of the Natural Resource Board present at a scheduled
meeting shall constitute a quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.060) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 33.051 MINUTES/RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, the
absence or the failure to vote of each member upon each question.
   (B)   The Board shall keep records of all examinations and of any other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall become a public record.
   (C)   Minutes and agendas for meetings shall be published no less than five
(5) business days before any scheduled public meeting. Final approved minutes
shall be published no more than ten (10) business days after approval.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.070) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2023-07, passed
- -2023)
§ 33.052 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.080) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 33.053 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Natural Resource Board shall inventory, study, investigate,
counsel, develop and administer a written Vegetation Management Plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of
trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan
will be reviewed and updated annually.
   (B)   The Natural Resource Board will encourage citizens of the town to
follow the recommendations found within the Vegetation Management Plan.
   (C)   This subchapter provides the town authority over all trees, plants and
shrubs located within street rights-of-way, parks and public places of the
town; and to trees, plants and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard or threat to public safety.
   (D)   This Natural Resource Board shall maintain a noxious weed strategy for
the town and recommend actions to Town Council as it relates to the control of
noxious weeds.
   (E)   The Natural Resource Board will provide oversight and management of
the town’s involvement with the Firewise Community Program.
   (F)   The Natural Resource Board will maintain an Outdoor Recreation
Management Plan for Fox Run Park and coordinate volunteer efforts for the
implementation of the approved plan.
   (G)   The Natural Resource Board will maintain a non-motorized hiking trail
plan in conjunction with the U.S.A. Forest Service, Bridger-Teton National
Forest and coordinate volunteer efforts for the implementation of the approved
plan.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.090) (Ord. 2011-07, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2016-02, passed
5-11-2016; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
WATER UTILITY BOARD
§ 33.065 CREATION.
   There is hereby confirmed the creation and continuation of a Water Utility
Board for the town, as an advisory board to the town council in the overall
execution of their duties for the Water Utility.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.010) (Ord. 2011-10, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 2018-13, passed
10-24-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 33.066 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Water Utility Board shall promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens in all matters affecting the Water
Utility of the town by providing advice, guidance and recommendations to the
Council.
   (B)   The Water Utility Board shall provide analysis, advice, guidance and
recommendations in all matters affecting the Water Utility to the Town Council
in the review and selection of options and alternatives in the monitoring,
development and expansion of our water system.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.020) (Ord. 2011-10, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 2018-13, passed
10-24-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 33.067 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Council Liaison (non-voting):
      (1)   The Mayor shall assign a Councilman as a liaison to the Water
Utility Board.
   (B)   Board Chairman / Co-Chairman (voting):
      (1)   A Chairman shall be elected by the Board Members from within the
Board's regular members (A co-chairman may be elected in the same manner).
   (C)   Regular Members (voting):
      (1)   The regular members which shall consist of five members, the
majority of whom shall be qualified electors of the town. Water Utility Board
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the Town
Council for a term of three years and shall serve without compensation.
      (2)   Appointments and terms should be staggered such that a maximum of
two will be planned to expire each year at the end of the town's fiscal year.
Members may be eligible for re-appointment.
   (D)   Advisory Members (non-voting):
      (1)   The following individuals are automatically appointed as "Advisory
Members":
         (a)   Town Treasurer (by title)
         (b)   Town Administrator or Town Clerk (by title)
         (c)   Public Works Director (by title)
         (d)   Town's Water Engineer (by Contract)
      (2)   In addition, the Chairman of the Water Utility Board may, from time
to time, appoint certain advisory members to provide advice and counsel to the
Board. Advisory members will be appointed based on special skills, knowledge or
experience and agree to assist the regular members.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.030) (Ord. 2011-10, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 2018-13, passed
10-24-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.068 VACANCIES AND REPLACEMENT.
   A vacancy in the Water Utility Board will be deemed to exist if one of the
following situations occur:
   (A)   A member voluntarily resigns;
   (B)   A member becomes incapacitated due to health or accident;
   (C)   A member dies; or
   (D)   The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any member of the Water
Utility Board whenever it appears such removal would be in the best interest of
the town. The Mayor with the Council's consent and approval shall fill any
vacancy. The replacement shall serve out the term of the vacating member.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.040) (Ord. 2011-10, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 2018-13, passed
10-24-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.069 MINUTES/RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, the
absence or the failure to vote of each member upon each question.
   (B)   The Board shall keep records of all examinations and of any other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall become a public record.
   (C)   Minutes and agendas for meetings shall be published no less than five
(5) business days before any scheduled public meeting. Final approved minutes
shall be published no more than ten (10) business days after approval.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.050) (Ord. 2011-10, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 2018-13, passed
10-24-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-21-2020; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.070 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.080) (Ord. 2011-10, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 2018-13, passed
10-24-2018; Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-21-2020)
§ 33.071 QUORUM.
   Three regular members of the Water Utility Board present at a scheduled
meeting shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
FINANCE ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.085 CREATION.
   There is hereby confirmed the creation and continuation of a Finance
Advisory Board for the town which shall consist of a minimum of five regular
members, the majority shall be qualified electors.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.010) (Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-24-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.086 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Finance Advisory Board shall provide financial guidance and
recommendations to the town through evaluations of annual budgets, assistance
on estimations of expected revenue streams, review of financial performance and
accountability, and advice regarding management of financial reserves being
established/retained by the town.
   (B)   The Finance Advisory Board shall promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town by monitoring
and providing investment advice, guidance and recommendations on investment
objectives, investment vehicles and options, investors, reviews, performances
and investment procedures and other related financial matters.
   (C)   The Finance Advisory Board shall provide impact analyses of proposed
initiatives related to economic development, annexations, or other additional
revenue streams that are available to the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.020) (Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-24-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-15-2021)
§ 33.087 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Council Liaison (non-voting). The Mayor shall assign a Councilman as a
liaison to the Financial Advisory Board.
   (B)   The Town Treasurer (by title) shall automatically be a voting member
of the Finance Advisory Board.
   (C)   Regular members. The regular members of the Finance Advisory Board
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the Town
Council, for a term of three years. Appointments and terms should be staggered
such that a maximum of any two will be planned to expire each year at the end
of the town's fiscal year. Members may be eligible for re-appointment.
   (D)   Advisory members. The Chairperson of the Finance Advisory Board may,
from time to time, appoint certain advisory members to provide advice and
counsel to the Board. Advisory members will be appointed based on special
skills, knowledge or experience and agree to assist the regular members.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.030) (Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-24-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-15-2021)
§ 33.088 VACANCIES AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Finance Advisory Board will be deemed to exist if one
of the following situations occurs:
      (1)   A member voluntarily resigns;
      (2)   A member becomes incapacitated due to health or accident;
      (3)   A member dies; or
      (4)   The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any member of the
Finance Advisory Board whenever it appears such removal would be in the best
interest of the town.
   (B)    The Mayor with the Council's consent and approval shall fill any
vacancy. The replacement shall serve out the remaining term of the vacating
member.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.040) (Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-24-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.089 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Chairman. A Chairman shall be elected by the Board Members from within
the Board's Regular Members.
   (B)   The Board will designate their meeting times, meeting place and shall
create their own rules of procedure.
(Ord. 2021-06, passed 6-15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.090 MINUTES/RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, the
absence or the failure to vote of each member upon each question.
   (B)   The Board shall keep records of all examinations and of any other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall become a public record.
   (C)   Minutes and agendas for meetings shall be published no less than five
(5) business days before any scheduled public meeting. Final approved minutes
shall be published no more than ten (10) business days after approval.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.050) (Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-24-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-15-2021; Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
§ 33.091 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.060) (Ord. 2018-20, passed 10-24-2018; Ord. 2021-06, passed
6-15-2021)
§ 33.092 QUORUM.
   Three regular members of the Finance Advisory Board present at a scheduled
meeting shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed - -2023)
ROADS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.110 CREATION.
There is hereby created a Roads Advisory Board for the town, which shall
consist of five regular members, the majority of whom shall be qualified
electors of the town and shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
§ 33.111 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Board shall make recommendations to the town to keep roadways and
future walking paths safe. The Board shall be a platform and educational
resource for citizens.
   (B)   The Board shall research and make recommendations to the Council on
funding options for Road and pathway needs by utilizing Federal, State, and
Local funding, including sixth penny option and special assessment.
   (C)   The Board shall provide analysis, advice, guidance, and
recommendations in all matters affecting the roads and pathways to the Town
Council. They will also assist in the review and selection of options and
alternatives in the monitoring, development and expansion of our roads and
pathways.
   (D)   he Board shall utilize the Road Study, Surface Water Study and
Transportation Alternative Plan to prioritize projects and make recommendations
to the Council.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
§ 33.112 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Council Liaison (non-voting). The Mayor shall assign a Councilman as a
liaison to the Roads Advisory Board.
   (B)   Regular members. The five "regular" members of the Roads Advisory
Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the
Town Council for a term of three years. Appointments and terms should be
staggered such that a maximum of two will be planned to expire each year at the
end of the town's fiscal year. Members may be eligible for re-appointment.
   (C)   Alternate member. A special sixth member, known as the "alternate"
member of the Roads Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
consent and approval of the Town Council for a term of one year. The term will
become effective upon appointment by the Mayor and will expire at the end of
the Town's fiscal year. The member may be eligible for reappointment. The
alternate member will have all of the responsibilities and duties of the
regular member, except voting will be limited to those situations where the
number of regular members present is less than five. The minimum number of
Roads Advisory Board members present, for quorum requirements, at the Roads
Advisory Board meeting remains three, with the "alternate" member's attendance
counting if necessary.
   (D)   Advisory members. The Chairperson of the Roads Advisory Board may,
from time to time, appoint certain advisory members to provide advice and
counsel to the Board. Advisory members will be appointed based on special
skills, knowledge or experience and agree to assist the regular members.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
§ 33.113 VACANCIES AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Roads Advisory Board will be deemed to exist if one
of the following situations occurs:
      (1)   A member voluntarily resigns;
      (2)   A member becomes incapacitated due to health or accident;
      (3)   A member dies; or
      (4)   The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any member of the
Roads Advisory Board whenever it appears such removal would be in the best
interest of the town.
   (B)   The Mayor with the Council's consent and approval shall fill any
vacancy. The replacement shall serve out the term of the vacating member.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
§ 33.114 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Roads Advisory Board shall elect from their number a
Chairperson, designate their meeting place, and shall create their own rules of
procedure.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
§ 33.115 MINUTES/RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, the
absence or the failure to vote of each member upon each question.
   (B)   The Board shall keep records of all examinations and of any other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall become a public record.
   (C)   Minutes and agendas for meetings shall be published no less than five
(5) business days before any scheduled public meeting. Final approved minutes
shall be published no more than ten (10) business days after approval.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
§ 33.116 QUORUM.
   Three regular members of the Roads Advisory Board present at a scheduled
meeting shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed - -2023)
TRAVEL AND TOURISM BOARD
§ 33.120 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Travel and Tourism Board for the Town of Star
Valley Ranch, which shall consist of four regular members and the Town
Treasurer. The majority of the board shall have worked or currently work in the
travel and tourism industry.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 33.121 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Provide an organized and economically efficient method and structure
for the administration of funds collected pursuant to the Lodging Tax imposed
in the community for the benefit of the community.
   (B)   Sixty percent (60%) of the funds collected shall be used for travel
and tourism promotion and shall be limited to promotional materials, promotion
of tours, staging of events, education materials, and other specific tourism
related objectives, provided that none of the funds shall be spent for capital
construction projects.
   (C)   Thirty percent (30%) of the funds collected shall be used for the
provision of visitor impact services within the town. As used in this section,
"visitor impact services" includes, but is not limited to, provision of vehicle
parking, public transportation, public restrooms, pedestrian and bicycle
pathways, museums, and other displays.
   (D)   Ten percent (10%) of funds collected may be deposited in the general
fund of the Town for administrative costs.
   (E)   Prepare an annual budget for inclusion into the Towns annual budget
based on projected lodging tax revenue.
   (F)   Solicit citizen input regarding needs and changes in Town tourism,
promotion, activities, and facilities.
   (G)   Make recommendations to the Town Council as may be needed for or as
requested by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 33.122 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Council Liaison (non-voting): The Mayor shall assign a Councilman as a
liaison to the Travel and Tourism Board.
   (B)   Regular members. The four “regular” members of the Travel and Tourism
Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the consent and approval of the
Town Council for a term of three years. Appointments and terms should be
staggered such that a maximum of two will be planned to expire each year at the
end of the town’s fiscal year. Members may be eligible for re-appointment. The
fifth member shall be the Town Treasurer.
   (C)   Alternate members. An additional member, known as the “alternate”
member of the Travel and Tourism Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the consent and approval of the Town Council, for a term of one year. The term
will become effective upon appointment by the Mayor, and will expire at the end
of the town’s fiscal year. The alternate member may be eligible for
reappointment. The alternate member will have the same responsibilities and
duties of a regular member, except voting will be limited to those situations
where the number of regular members present is less than what is required for a
quorum.
   (D)   Expert advice. The Chairperson of the Travel and Tourism Board may,
from time to time, seek advice or expertise from certain experts to provide
advice and counsel to the Board. Experts will be sought based on special
skills, knowledge or experience in the travel and tourism industry and agree to
assist the regular members on a meeting-by-meeting basis.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023; Ord. 2025-03, passed 5-13-2025)
§ 33.123 VACANCIES AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   A vacancy in the Travel and Tourism Board will be deemed to exist if
one of the following situations occurs:
      (1)   A member voluntarily resigns.
      (2)   A member becomes incapacitated due to health or accident.
      (3)   A member dies; or
      (4)   The Town Council may, by majority vote, remove any member of the
Tourism Board whenever it appears such removal would be in the best interest of
the town.
   (B)   The Mayor with the Council's consent and approval shall fill any
vacancy. The replacement shall serve out the term of the vacating member.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 33.124 ORGANIZATION.
   The members of the Travel and Tourism Board shall elect from their number a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. The Town Treasurer will serve as the Travel
and Tourism Board Treasurer. The board will designate their meeting place, time
and shall create their own rules of procedure.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 33.125 MINUTES/RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, the
absence or the failure to vote of each member upon each question.
   (B)   The Board shall keep records of all examinations and of any other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall become a public record.
   (C)   Minutes and agendas for meetings shall be published no less than five
(5) business days before any scheduled public meeting. Final approved minutes
shall be published no more than ten (10) business days after approval.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 33.126 QUORUM.
   Three regular members of the Travel and Tourism Board present at a scheduled
meeting shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 2023-09, passed 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Liquid Assets Management
   
34.01   Reserve objectives
   
34.02   Funds withdrawal authorization
   
34.03   Reserved
   
34.04   Road improvement reserve
   
34.05   Capital Equipment reserve
   
34.06   Natural resources donation reserve
Investment Policy
   
34.20   Introduction
   
34.21   Governing authority
   
34.22   Scope
   
34.23   General objectives
   
34.24   Prudence
   
34.25   Delegation of authority and responsibilities; Investment Board
   
34.26   Authorized financial institutions, depositories and brokers/dealers
   
34.27   Safekeeping and custody
   
34.28   Suitable and authorized investments
   
34.29   Investment parameters
   
34.30   Performance standards/evaluation
   
34.31   Reporting/disclosure
   
34.32   Policy considerations
   
34.33   Miscellaneous
   
34.34   Glossary
Cross-reference:
   General Provisions, see
Chapter 30
   Officials and Employees, see
Chapter 32
   Town Organizations, see
Chapter 33
LIQUID ASSETS MANAGEMENT
§ 34.01 RESERVE OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter establishes a series of town General Fund reserves that are
well defined, and dictates their management processes for authorized uses for
specific and general purposes by the town in the normal course of business.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ASSIGNED (SET BY BUDGET). This classification includes amounts that are
constrained by the town’s intent to be used for a specific purpose but are
neither restricted nor committed. This intent can be expressed by the Town
Council or Town Administrator. No other governing body or officials have this
authority delegated to them. This classification also includes the remaining
positive fund balance for all governmental funds except for the General Fund.
      COMMITTED (ESTABLISHED BY ORDINANCE). This classification includes
amounts that can be used only for specific purposes pursuant to constraints
imposed by formal action of the Town Council. These amounts cannot be used for
any purpose unless the Town Council removes or changes the specified use by
taking the same type of action (ordinance or resolution) that was employed when
the funds were initially committed. This classification also includes
contractual obligations to the extent that existing resources have been
specifically committed for use in satisfying those contractual requirements.
      FUND BALANCES (RESERVES). The cumulative difference of all revenues and
expenditures since the government’s creation. Thus, a current fund balance
results from the cumulative financial decisions made by the governing body
since the government’s formation. Positive fund balances are also called
reserves. However, not all of these funds are available for spending
      RESTRICTED (REQUIRED BY OTHERS, SET BY ORDINANCE). This classification
includes amounts for which constraints have been placed on the use of resources
either:
         (a)   Externally imposed by creditors (such as through a debt
covenant), grantors, contributors or laws or regulations of other governments;
or
         (b)   Imposed by law through constitutional provisions or enabling
legislation.
      UNASSIGNED. This classification includes the residual fund balance for
the General Fund. The unassigned classification also includes negative residual
fund balance of any other governmental fund that cannot be eliminated by the
offsetting of assigned fund balance amounts.
   (B)   Changes to reserves. Reserves are established to accumulate funds for
specific uses. Unless otherwise provided for in a specific reserve, a reserve
may be changed, altered, retired, eliminated or abandoned by standard ordinance
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 3.A06.010) (Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-24-2018)
§ 34.02 FUNDS WITHDRAWAL AUTHORIZATION.
   Funds may be withdrawn and used for the sole purposes, as defined in the
specific reserve’s section, exclusively under the following conditions:
   (A)   Authorization for planned use of Reserve Funds.
      (1)   Budgeted projects. The project is part of and specifically
identified in General Fund’s annual budgets: appropriations for current fiscal
year (see Ord. 2019-02).
      (2)   Procedure. The town will follow the standard procedure for Project
Contracting when withdrawal of funds from any Reserve, except the Capital
Equipment and Natural Resources-Donations Reserves, for a budgeted project,
following these general steps:
         (a)   Public notification of a specific project;
         (b)   Initiate contract action; and
         (c)   Council meeting:
            1.   Project plan - details;
            2.   Intent to finance the project with funds from a specific
reserve; and
            3.   Resolution.
   (B)   Authorization for Emergency Use of Reserve Funds. This subchapter
gives the Mayor (or Mayor Pro Tem) the authority to declare an “emergency” for
the specific purpose of using funds from a specific reserve to pay for the
emergency.
      (1)   Emergency.
         (a)   An emergency exists which significantly threatens the health,
safety and public welfare of the citizens or the normal operation of the town;
and
         (b)   There is insufficient time to authorize the use of reserve fund
in order to effectively address the emergency situation.
      (2)   Procedure. Prior to the actual withdrawal of funds from a reserve
for an emergency, steps in divisions (a) and (b) below ((a) Documentation; and
(b) Notification), shall be completed;
         (a)   Documentation.
            1.   Declaration shall be within 48 hours of the detection of the
condition.
            2.   A document shall be presented to the Town Clerk for
verification of the action.
            a.   Description of the condition.
            b.   Estimate of time and cost to repair.
            c.   Authorization of Town Clerk to transfer funds from the
specific reserve as needed to meet payment requirements.
               d.   Signed by Mayor (or Mayor Pro Tem) and one additional
Council member.
         (b)   Notification. Town Clerk will immediately upon receipt of the
documentation inform the following individuals of the “emergency” with a copy
of the declaration:
            1.   Town Council;
            2.   Town administration staff;
            3.   Public Works Director; and
            4.   Public notification.
         (c)   Hold an emergency Town Council meeting within ten days of
declaration. Pass an emergency ordinance General Fund budget amendment for
immediate use of funds needed.
         (d)   At the next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting, continue
to follow up the emergency ordinance process with a first reading of a budget
amendment ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3.A06.020) (Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-24-2018)
§ 34.03 RESERVED.
§ 34.04 ROAD IMPROVEMENT RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a road improvement
reserve for the sole purpose for collecting sufficient funds for the current
and future costs associated with the improvement and major maintenance of town
roads.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as a committed reserve.
      (1)   Objective. Set aside sufficient funds to improvement or to perform
major repairs of town roads.
      (2)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Town Council by resolution or ordinance may deposit additional
funds into this reserve.
         (b)   All earnings from investments of this reserve shall be
redeposited back into this reserve.
      (3)   Authorized uses. Funds shall be used solely for the current and
future costs associated with the improvement and major maintenance of town
roads.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.A06.033) (Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-24-2018)
§ 34.05 CAPITAL EQUIPMENT RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a Capital Equipment
Reserve as a depository to accumulate funds for future acquisitions of public
works equipment.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as an assigned reserve.
      (1)   Objective. Provide the town a mechanism to allocate and accumulate
funds in one or more fiscal budget years for planned equipment acquisitions in
future years, thus avoiding financing charges for time payments, while
spreading the costs across multiple fiscal years.
      (2)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Town Council by resolution or ordinance may deposit additional
funds into this reserve.
         (b)   Funds budgeted from the annual revenues.
      (3)   Authorized uses.
         (a)   Funds are for exclusive use to meet the town’s anticipated
acquisition of equipment as planned and designated in previous and current
capital budgets.
         (b)   This reserve may be used to accumulate an end-of-lease purchase
option.
         (c)   Based on the needs of the Public Works Department, the Town
Council may reprioritize by resolution, the designated equipment to a more
critical piece of equipment.
         (d)   Any excess funds as deemed by a Town Council resolution may be
transferred back to the General Fund’s “unencumbered funds - cash” account.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.A06.036) (Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-24-2018)
§ 34.06 NATURAL RESOURCES DONATIONS RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a Natural Resources
Donations Reserve as a depository to accumulate funds for costs associated with
specific projects of the Natural Resources Board (NRB).
   (B)   This reserve is classified as an assigned reserve.
      (1)   Objective. Provide the town’s NRB a mechanism to account for
donation funds in one or more fiscal budget years for costs associated with
specific projects of the NRB.
      (2)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Donated and grant funds from various sources.
         (b)   All earnings from investments of this reserve shall be
redeposited back into this reserve.
      (3)   Authorized uses. Those costs associated with specific projects
recommended by the NRB and approved through the town’s standard expenditure
approval process.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.A06.039) (Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-24-2018)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 34.20 INTRODUCTION.
   The intent of the investment policy of the town is to define the parameters
within which funds are to be managed. In methods, procedures and practices, the
policy formalizes the framework for the town’s investment activities that must
be exercised to ensure effective and judicious fiscal and investment management
of the town’s funds. The guidelines are intended to be broad enough to allow
the Investment Board to function properly within the parameters of
responsibility and authority, yet specific enough to adequately safeguard the
investment assets.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.010) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.21 GOVERNING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The investment program shall be operated in conformance with federal,
state and other legal requirements, including W.S. § 9-4-820, W.S. § 9-4-821
and W.S. § 9-4-831(h).
   (B)   The governing body of the town shall be the Mayor and Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.020) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.22 SCOPE.
   (A)   This policy applies to activities of the town with regard to investing
the financial assets of all funds. In addition, funds held by trustees or
fiscal agents are excluded from these rules; however, all funds are subject to
regulations established by the state. The covered funds, and any new funds
created by the town, unless specifically exempted by the Oversight Board and
this policy, are defined in the town’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
   (B)   Note that any excluded funds such as employee retirement funds,
proceeds from certain bond issues and foundation or endowment assets are
covered by separate policies.
   (C)   Except for funds in certain restricted and special funds, the town
commingles its funds to maximize investment earnings and to increase
efficiencies with regard to investment pricing, safekeeping and administration.
Investment income will be allocated to the various funds based on their
respective participation and in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.030) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.23 GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives, in priority order, of investment activities shall be
the following:
   (A)   Legality. Conformance with state law and other pertinent legal
restrictions upon the municipality, if any;
   (B)   Risk adversity. Investments that seek to prioritize the preservation
of capital and safety of principal ahead of maximizing investment returns in
the various fund portfolios;
   (C)   Liquidity. Liquidity requirements that allow flexibility to meet
anticipated and unanticipated expenditures;
   (D)   Fund individuality. Recognition of differing objectives and needs of
various fund portfolios while emphasizing an acceptable rate of return;
   (E)   Diversification. Diversification by factors such as asset class,
market and credit risk, and tax treatment, in order to reduce the volatility of
returns and improve the overall efficiency and resilience of the various fund
portfolios;
   (F)   Rate of return. Earn an acceptable rate of return on investments based
on predetermined index benchmarks yet consistent with the foregoing objectives;
and
   (G)   Community. Use of local banks and other financial service businesses
to support and bolster our community, but not at the expense of sacrificing any
aforementioned consideration.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.040) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.24 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with written
procedures and this investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal liability for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion and appropriate action is taken to control any further
deterioration.
   (B)   The “prudent person” standard states that “Investments shall be made
with judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of
prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own
affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the probable
safety of their capital as well as the probable income to be derived.”
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.050) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.25 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES; INVESTMENT BOARD.
   (A)   Town Council. The Town Council will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios.
   (B)   Investment Board. The Investment Board will receive periodic reports
and periodically review the investment policy making recommendations for any
changes necessary to the Town Council for adoption. The Investment Board may
provide guidance to the Investment Advisor when deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.060) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.26 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   (A)   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers or investment advisors selected
by conducting a process of due diligence.
   (B)   These may include “primary” dealers or regional dealers that qualify
under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital
rule).
      (1)   The Treasurer shall determine which financial institutions are
authorized to provide investment services to the town. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with the town include:
         (a)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
         (b)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
         (c)   The Federal Reserve Bank; and
         (d)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase.
      (2)   Upon advice of the Investment Board, the final selection of
financial institutions and broker/dealers and/or investment advisors authorized
to engage in transactions with the town shall be at the discretion of Mayor
with the concurrence of the Town Council.
      (3)   All broker/dealers and/or investment advisors who desire to become
qualified for investment transactions may be required to supply the following
upon written request (as appropriate):
         (a)   Proof of FINRA certification (Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority);
         (b)   Proof of state registration;
         (c)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to
comply with the town’s investment policy; and
         (d)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
      (4)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of
all qualified financial institutions and broker/dealers and/or investment
advisors will be conducted by the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.070) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.27 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the town. All securities will
be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the town’s name.
   (B)   Internal controls. Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of
the Town are protected from loss, theft or misuse. Specifics for the internal
controls shall be documented in an investment procedures manual that shall be
reviewed and updated periodically by the Investment Board.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.080) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.28 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with W.S. § 9-4-
831, the following investments will be permitted by this policy and are those
defined by state and local law where applicable. If additional types of
securities are approved for investment by public funds by state statute, they
will not be eligible for investment by the town until this policy has been
amended and the amended version adopted by the governing body.
   (B)   Collateralization. As described in W.S. § 9-4-820 and W.S. § 9-4-821,
full collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts,
including checking accounts and certificates of deposit. Acceptable collateral
shall include only those instruments outlined in W.S. § 9-4-821.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.090) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.29 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   (A)   Mitigating credit risk in the portfolio. Credit risk is the risk that
a security or a portfolio will lose some or all of its value due to a real or
perceived change in the ability of the issuer to repay its debt. The town shall
mitigate credit risk by adopting the following: diversification. The
investments shall be diversified by:
      (1)   Limiting investments to avoid overconcentration in securities from
a specific issuer or business;
      (2)   Sector (excluding U.S. Treasury securities);
      (3)   Limiting investment in securities that have higher credit risks;
      (4)   Investing in securities with varying maturities; and
      (5)   Continuously investing a portion of the portfolio in readily
available funds such as local government investment pools (LGIPs), money market
funds or overnight repurchase agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity
is maintained in order to meet ongoing obligations.
   (B)   Mitigating market risk in the portfolio. 
      (1)   Market risk is the risk that the portfolio value will fluctuate due
to changes in the general level of interest rates. The town recognizes that,
over time, longer-term/core portfolios have the potential to achieve higher
returns. On the other hand, longer-term portfolios have higher volatility of
return. The town shall mitigate market risk by providing adequate liquidity for
short-term cash needs, and by making longer-term investments only with funds
that are not needed for current cash flow purposes. The town further recognizes
that certain types of securities, including variable rate securities,
securities with principal paydowns prior to maturity, and securities with
embedded options, will affect the market risk profile of the portfolio
differently in different interest rate environments.
      (2)   The town, therefore, adopts the following strategies to control and
mitigate its exposure to market risk:
         (a)   The town shall maintain a minimum of three months of budgeted
operating expenditures in short term investments to provide sufficient
liquidity for expected disbursements;
         (b)   The maximum stated final maturity of individual securities in
the portfolio shall be five years, except as otherwise stated in this policy;
and
         (c)   Liquid funds will be held in the State Pool or in money market
instruments maturing one year and shorter.
         (d)   Longer term/core funds will be the defined as the funds in
excess of liquidity requirements. The investments in this portion of the
portfolio will have maturities between one day and five years and will be only
invested in higher quality and liquid securities. Exception to five-year
maturity maximum: reserve or capital improvement project monies may be invested
in securities exceeding five years if the maturities of such investments are
made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.100) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.30 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS/EVALUATION.
   The investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. A series of appropriate benchmarks shall be
established against which portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular
basis. The benchmarks shall be reflective of the actual securities being
purchased and risks undertaken. The Treasurer will establish a series of
appropriate benchmarks, based on a Benchmark Index, which portfolio performance
shall be compared on a regular basis.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.110) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.31 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Methods. 
      (1)   The Treasurer shall cause the preparation of an investment report
periodically, including a management summary that provides an analysis of the
status of the current investment portfolio and the individual transactions
executed over the last quarter.
      (2)   This management summary will be prepared in a manner which will
allow the town to ascertain whether investment activities during the reporting
period have conformed to the investment policy. The report should be provided
to the town’s Investment Board.
      (3)   The report will include, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   An asset listing showing par value, cost and accurate and
complete market value of each security, type of investment, issuer and interest
rate;
         (b)   Maturity distribution of the portfolio;
         (c)   Average portfolio credit quality;
         (d)   Rate of return for the portfolio for the year to date and since
inception compared to the Benchmark Index returns for the same periods; and
         (e)   Distribution by type of investment.
   (B)   Annual reports.
      (1)   The investment policy shall be reviewed at least annually within 60
days of the end of the fiscal year to ensure its consistency with the overall
objectives of preservation of principal, liquidity and return, and its
relevance to current law and financial and economic trends.
      (2)   A comprehensive annual report shall be presented in conjunction
with the investment policy review. This report shall include comparisons of the
town’s return to the Benchmark Index return, shall suggest policies and
improvements that might enhance the investment program, and shall include an
investment plan for the coming year.
   (C)   Annual audit. The governing body of the town shall establish an annual
process of independent review by the external auditor to assure compliance with
internal controls. Such audit will include tests deemed appropriate by the
auditor.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.120) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.32 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes shall be by standard ordinance procedure.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.130) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.33 MISCELLANEOUS.
   The following documents, as applicable, may be attached to this policy:
   (A)   Listing of authorized personnel;
   (B)   Listing of authorized broker/dealers, investment advisors and
financial institutions;
   (C)   Internal controls;
   (D)   Investment Guidelines Manual; and
   (E)   Glossary.
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.140) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 34.34 GLOSSARY.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT/BANK DEPOSIT/SAVINGS ACCOUNTS. Time deposit open
accounts, certificates of deposit and savings accounts in insured institutions
as defined in state statue, in credit unions as defined in state statute or in
federal credit unions, if the institution or credit union maintains a head
office or a branch in this state. (State statute).
   GSE - AGENCY OBLIGATIONS. U.S. Government Agencies, Government Sponsored
Enterprises (GSEs), Corporations or Instrumentalities of the U.S. Government -
Federal Instrumentality Securities include, but are not limited to Federal
National Mortgage Association (FNMA), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB), and the Federal Farm
Credit Bureau (FFCB). (State statute).
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT POOL. State treasurer’s local investment fund up
to the statutory limit per state statute.
   U.S. TREASURY OBLIGATION. Direct obligations of the United States Treasury
whose payment is guaranteed by the United States. (State statute note).
(Prior Code, § 3.A08.150) (Ord. 2018-22, passed 12-12-2018)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
35.01   Bond schedule and court appearances
§ 35.01 BOND SCHEDULE AND COURT APPEARANCES.
   (A)   Any person or persons found in violation of any section of the town
code shall be fined or otherwise penalized in a manner consistent with the Town
Municipal Court Bond Schedule.
   (B)   The Special Municipal Officer issuing the citation may require
mandatory court appearance for the following reasons:
      (1)   This is a second offense, or a warning has previously been issued;
      (2)   The offense is of such complexity as to require the judge to
resolve the matter; or
      (3)   The defendant requests a hearing on the charged violation and bond
before the judge.
Code Section Number First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
Code Section Number          First Offense    Second Offense   Third Offense
50.06 (tampering/            $250             Court appearance Court appearance
interfering)
71.05 (parking restrictions) $50              $75              $100
71.06 (A, B) (Other street   $50              $100             $200
issues)
72.03 (snow removal near     $100             $200             Court appearance
residences)
72.04 (property in road      $100             $150             $300
right-of-way during winter)
90.05(A) (interference with  $100             Court appearance -
an officer)
90.05(B) (animal cruelty)    Court appearance Court appearance -
90.05(C) (dog licensing      $25              $50              $75
required)
90.05(D) (limit of four
total dogs or cats per       $50              $75              $100
residence)
90.05(E) (running at large)  $50              $75              $100
90.05(F) (removal of feces   $50              $75              $100
requirements)
90.05(G) (disturbing or      $50              $100             Court appearance
barking dogs)
90.05(H) (vicious dog)       Court appearance Court appearance -
90.05 (I) (chasing/harassing Court            Court            Court
wildlife or other animals)
90.06 (Town designated off-  $50              $75              $100
leash dog park regulations)
90.06(A) (dog park hours     $50              $75              $100
open)
90.06(B) (no dogs without    $50              $75              $100
people in the dog park)
90.06(C) (current rabies     $25              $50              $75
vaccinations in dog park)
90.27 (supplemental feeding
of certain wild animals/     $100             Court appearance Court appearance
violations)
92.03 (discharge of          $750             Court appearance Court appearance
fireworks)
92.04 (recreational fires)   $100             $200             Court appearance
92.05 (open fires)           $250             Court appearance Court appearance
113.06(B)(1) (operating a
short-term rental without a  $750             Court appearance Court appearance
permit)
113.06(B)(2) (short-term
rental violations other than $100             $250             Court appearance
operating without a permit)
113.12 (operating a short-
term rental without a        $750             Court appearance Court appearance
permit)
150.019(B) (failure to post  $100             $150             Court appearance
building permit)
150.019(C) (failure to       $200             $400             Court appearance
obtain a building permit)
150.020 (failure to notify
the town when inspections    $100             $200             Court appearance
are required)
150.057 (failure to comply   $300             Court appearance Court appearance
with a stop work order)
150.057(B) (failure to
comply with approved drawing $200             $300             Court appearance
and specification)
150.057(C) (failure to
comply with town adopted     $200             Court appearance Court appearance
International Code Council)
150.060(D) (construction
noise between 8:00 p.m. to   $50              $100             Court appearance
7:00 a.m.)
150.060(E) (living on the
job site/structure prior to
receiving the acceptable     $100             $200             Court appearance
final construction
inspection)
150.060(K) (failure to
properly dispose of          $100             $200             Court appearance
construction material)
150.060(M) (failure to keep
construction materials,
portable toilet and          $50              $100             Court appearance
construction vehicles off
private property and road
right-of-way)
150.060(Q) (failure to       $150             $300             Court appearance
secure job site)
150.060(S) (failure to apply
for an extension 30 days     Court appearance Court appearance Court appearance
prior to expiration of
building permit)
 
(Prior Code, Title 13) (Ord. 2021-22, passed 1-19-2022; Ord. 2022-09, passed 7-
20-2022; Ord. 2022-16, passed 11-16-2022; Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-12-2023; Ord.
2024-21, passed 1-14-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   REGULATION
      
51.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
52.   LIQUID ASSETS MANAGEMENT
      
53.   DEFINITIONS
      
54.   WATER RATES
CHAPTER 50: REGULATION
Section
   
50.01   Rates, Fees, Fines and Penalties
   
50.02   Management and Control
   
50.03   Reservation of Rights by the Town
   
50.04   Agreement to Rules and Regulations is Required Before Starting Service
   
50.05   Trespass or Interference with Water Utility's Property
   
50.06   Tampering or Interfering
   
50.07   Damaging Utility's Property or Equipment
   
50.08   Turn On/Turn Off Violation
   
50.09   Town Not Liable for Damages
   
50.10   Shutting Water Off at Street Mains
   
50.11   Disconnecting Service from Premises
   
50.12   Mandatory Rationing
   
50.13   User Maintenance
   
50.14   Billing and Payment
   
50.15   Statement Addressee
   
50.16   Estimated Charges
   
50.17   Partial Period Billing
   
50.18   Delinquency
   
50.19   Late Payment Interest
   
50.20   Failure to Pay
   
50.21   Shut Off Notice
   
50.22   Restoration Payment
   
50.23   Collection Fees
   
50.24   Return Check Fee
   
50.25   Liens
   
50.26   Appeals
   
50.27   Base Fee
   
50.28   Fire Suppression Fees
   
50.29   On-Site Service Fees
   
50.30   Plant Investment Fee (Limits of Service)
   
50.31   Service Area Fees (Out of Town Services)
   
50.32   Service Availability Fees
   
50.33   Turn On/Turn Off Fees
   
50.34   Usage Fee
   
50.35   Water Service Connection Request
   
50.36   Water Service Connection Fee
§ 50.01 RATES, FEES, FINES AND PENALTIES.
   Amounts may be found in
Chapter 54 Rates.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.02 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL.
   The Town shall have exclusive control and management of the Town's water
system and shall have exclusive management and control of the supply and
distribution of water to all users. The Town shall from time to time make such
rules and regulations as are necessary for the complete management, control,
expansion, improvement, distribution, and supplying of water to the users.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.03 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS BY THE TOWN.
   The use of water under the provisions of this chapter shall not constitute
or be deemed to be a relinquishment of any water or water right by the Town and
the Town reserves the full right to determine all matters in connection with
the control and use of such water.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.04 AGREEMENT TO RULES AND REGULATIONS IS REQUIRED BEFORE STARTING SERVICE.
   No person may be served with water from the water utility unless they agree
to all the rules and regulations of the Town pertaining to the use of such
water. Use of the water from the water utility shall constitute acceptance of
the rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.05 TRESPASS OR INTERFERENCE WITH WATER UTILITY'S PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person, other than those authorized by the Town, shall have direct
contact with any property of the Water Utility or tap any water mains or make
connections thereto or in any way interfere with the Water Utility or the
property, equipment, pipes, valves or other appurtenances of the Water Utility
or change or alter the position of any valve or appurtenances regulating the
flow of water in any pipeline.
   (B)   A three foot radius clear space around the fire hydrant shall be
maintained in such a manner as to not curtail nor interfere with its effective
use in an emergency. No one, other than those authorized by the Town, shall
change or cause change to this area.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.06 TAMPERING OR INTERFERING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to tamper or interfere with any meter or
meter seal or to so arrange their water service or piping so that the use of
water will not actuate the meter.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.07 DAMAGING UTILITY'S PROPERTY OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall in any way damage any property, equipment or appurtenances
constituting or being a part of the water utility. In addition to any fines and
penalties, all costs associated with repairing the damages shall be assessed to
the property owner or person causing the damages.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.08 TURN ON/TURN OFF VIOLATION.
   Except in an “Emergency,” it will be a violation for Individuals to turn
their own water on or off at the curb stop or in the meter pit or to designate
an agent to do so for them. Only authorized agents of the Town shall have
access to either the curb stops or meter pits. Violators will be responsible
for fines, penalties, attorney fees, and court costs as well as the cost of any
repairs to valves, meters or other equipment or parts caused by such violation.
   (A)   Water will not be turned on to a residence unless an occupant or
authorized agent is present.
   (B)   Violators will be issued a citation and fined up to a maximum penalty
per incident if the service is turned on or off by anyone other than an
authorized agent of the Town.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.09 TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   If not negligent, the Town shall not be liable to the users for any damages
caused by interruptions of water supply, scarcity of water, water quality,
accidents to works or mains, or during time of alterations, additions, or
repairs, or for any other avoidable or unavoidable causes.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.10 SHUTTING WATER OFF AT STREET MAINS.
   (A)   Water may be shut off from any street main when necessary to make
repairs or to make connections or extensions of the mains or to perform any
other work necessary to maintain the water utility. Such shut offs may only be
performed by authorized employees of the Town.
   (B)   Town shall establish, publish and follow procedures to notify affected
users.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.11 DISCONNECTING SERVICE FROM PREMISES.
   When a water user desires to disconnect their premises from the Water
Utility, the user shall not be permitted to take up that portion of the line
between the main and the meter and all appurtenances from the water main, to
and including the meter and stop and waste valve, shall remain in the ground
and in undisturbed condition. Any damage to the meter, stop and waste valve or
other property of the water utility or violation of these requirements will
result in fees being assessed to the property owner for the actual cost of
replacement or repair of damaged or missing items and a fine not to exceed the
maximum allowed by law.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.12 MANDATORY RATIONING.
   When there is an insufficient supply of water, the Mayor may place
restrictions on the use of the available water.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.13 USER MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of any property connecting to the Water Utility shall be
responsible for the maintenance of the water service line from the meter to the
structure being served and shall keep his line in good condition at the owner's
expense.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.14 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   An account shall be established for each lot. All accounts shall be
carried in the names and addresses of both the property owner and any property
owner's authorized agent, tenant, purchaser or lessee of each such parcel
having the water connection.
   (B)   At least once a year and not more than once a month, a statement of
each account, shall be prepared and sent to the name and mailing address
appearing on the account. Nothing shall prevent accounts from being divided
into groups with different billing dates for the purpose of establishing
convenient billing cycles.
   (C)   Statements shall be due and payable immediately upon receipt of the
statement
   (D)   Property owners or the owner, agent, tenant, purchaser, or lessee of
each property for which the water connection is made shall, each and all, be
jointly and severally liable for each payment of charges and fees. It shall be
the property owner's ultimate responsibility for any damage or charges. Failure
to pay any charges when due shall constitute a violation of the provisions of
this ordinance. Collection of charges and fees under this ordinance when
delinquent may be enforced by civil action brought by the Town for the Town in
any court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy is cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to all penalties provided by the ordinance
for any violation of any provisions hereof. No change of ownership or
occupation shall affect the application of this section.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.15 STATEMENT ADDRESSEE.
   It is the responsibility of property owners to advise the Town if the
billing statement is to be directed elsewhere. The owner of the property is
responsible for payment of any water services bill in a timely manner and
directing the billing statement elsewhere does not negate that responsibility.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.16 ESTIMATED CHARGES.
   The Town reserves the right to estimate the Water Service Fee, based on
previous usage, if for reasons beyond its control water meter readings cannot
be obtained or properly used. Payment of this estimated fee does not negate the
payment for actual water used.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.17 PARTIAL PERIOD BILLING.
   A statement for a partial billing period, due to change of owner or occupant
arriving or leaving during a billing period or for any other reason will
include a full billing period base fee and the quantity of water used in the
partial billing period provided that the prior owner or occupant gives notice
to the Town prior to vacating the property.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.18 DELINQUENCY.
   The account will be delinquent if not paid within 21 calendar days following
billing date. Delinquent payments shall attach to the property. The owner shall
be held responsible for any delinquent payments during the time that the
property was leased or rented to any other person. If the property is sold, the
new lot owner shall be required to bring current all delinquent payments prior
to the water being turned on to the property. The Town of Star Valley Ranch may
also file a lien against the property for delinquent payments.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.19 LATE PAYMENT INTEREST.
   Interest will be assessed on payments that are delinquent and will be
assessed on the total amount of any delinquent bill.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.20 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   For a metered account: in case any water user shall fail to pay all
charges as prescribed by this ordinance, the Town shall shut off water to the
premises, building, house or lot, and water shall not be turned on again until
all charges, including all penalties and interest, have been paid.
   (B)   For a non-metered account: in lieu of any financial agreements, should
any account fail to pay all charges as prescribed by this ordinance, the Town
shall notify owner by certified mail, with return receipt:
      (1)   After 90 days of delinquency with a copy of this Section;
      (2)   After an additional 90 days file a lien on the property; and then
      (3)   In lieu of other financial agreements, after an additional 180 days
the lot will lose the right to water, (the Water Utility is relieved of its
obligation to provide water to the lot; see § 59.32 Service Availability Fee
Section) until after the acceptance of request for water (see §
50.30 Plant Investment Fee Section) and all previous fees, fines and interest
are paid in full.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.21 SHUT OFF NOTICE.
   The Town shall not shut off the water until both the owner and occupant
shall have been given ten days' notice by certified mail of the Town's intent
to shut off the water. The ten days' notice shall be deemed to have been given
ten days after the notice has been mailed by certified mail to the mailing
address on the records of the Water Utility.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.22 RESTORATION PAYMENT.
   Payment in full, for restoration of water service, may be required to be by
cash, or certified funds. After receipt of payment by the Town, the water
service will be turned back on at a mutually agreeable time.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.23 COLLECTION FEES.
   All costs and attorney fees resulting from any infraction or collection
action will be added to the amount due.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.24 RETURN CHECK FEE.
   A returned check fee will be charged for checks that are not honored for
payment.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.25 LIENS.
   Delinquent payments shall attach to the property. The owner shall be held
responsible for any delinquent payments during the time that the property was
leased or rented to any other person. If the property is sold, the new lot
owner shall be required to bring current all delinquent payments prior to the
water being turned on to the property. The Town of Star Valley Ranch may also
file a lien against the property for delinquent payments.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.26 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Following any unsatisfactory discussion regarding a water
related issue, a person may file a written appeal with the Town Clerk to be
evaluated based upon current policy.
      (2)   A written appeal should state the reasons:
         (a)   Why they consider the billing statement to be incorrect (if
applicable).
         (b)   What unusual extenuating circumstances existed (if applicable).
         (c)   What special conditions or circumstances existed.
         (d)   What corrective action has been taken.
         (e)   Why strict application is unreasonable.
         (f)   What consideration they are requesting from the Town.
   (B)   Any written appeal that is not satisfied by the Town Clerk may be
forwarded at the request of the person filing the appeal to the Town Council
for a final review and decision.
   (C)   Any delinquent interest charges shall be suspended during the process
above from the date of the Town's receipt of an appeal until the date of a
formal decision (If the appeal is filed via an electronic method, the Town may
respond in a similar method).
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021; Ord. 2021-25, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 50.27 BASE FEE.
   The Town shall charge a base fee, each billing period, based upon service
size, to all properties that have a water service connection.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.28 FIRE SUPPRESSION FEES.
   The Town shall charge fees that are exclusively dedicated to Fire
Suppression at one-half the regular fees except Usage Fees.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.29 ON-SITE SERVICE FEES.
   The Town shall charge a fee for water related service that is user requested
and not covered elsewhere in this Title.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.30 PLANT INVESTMENT FEE (LIMITS OF SERVICE).
   (A)   Any non-metered lot denied water for non-payment (see §
50.20, 3) shall be required to pay a Plant Investment Fee prior to any
reinstatement of their right to water.
      (1)   When applicable, the annexation of any subdivision or plat
amendment of existing lot that creates additional lots shall be required to pay
a Plant Investment Fee for each additional lot.
         (a)   Payment terms for the Fee will be part of a Subdivision
Development Agreement or Plat Amendment. These payment terms and conditions
shall be agreed to by the Applicant, Water Utility Board and Town Attorney,
then approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   The revenue from this fee shall be deposited in a Plant Investment
Reserve. There will be no refunds of the Plant Investment Fee.
   (B)   Limits of Service. No water service connection shall be installed on
any property that is located outside the Town Boundary of the Town of Star
Valley Ranch, except to honor those connections committed by previous owners of
the Town's water system. Those commitments are located in Service Areas #1, #2
and #4.
   (C)   Requests for service: Requests for the Town's commitment for the
future service shall be accompanied with:
      (1)   A preliminary Plat showing all lots that require a connection, as
part of a Subdivision Development or Subdivision Master Plan.
      (2)   A complete set of Plans and Specifications for the water system,
consistent with the Town's Water System's standards, signed by a Wyoming
Professional Engineer and approved by the Town's Engineer.
      (3)   If applicable, the plans shall show all phases of the development.
   (D)   For single service requests for a building with multiple Housing Units
and Commercial Units, the assessed number of Plant Investment Fees shall be the
greater of the number of required 3/4-inch meters to accommodate a service per
unit or the size of the pipe for the requested single metered service.
   (E)   In any zone that allows multiple units, the assessed fee shall be
based on a plat plan identifying the number of units possible per lot.
   (F)   Based on projected use, this fee shall be negotiated with or by Water
Utility Board's recommendation and approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021; Ord. 2021-25, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 50.31 SERVICE AREA FEES (OUT OF TOWN SERVICES).
   Water fees charged in a defined Service Area shall be 1.25 times the same
in-Town fee.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.32 SERVICE AVAILABILITY FEES.
   (A)   A Service Availability fee will be charged to all vacant lot owners
that do not have a water meter on the lot. This fee, when paid, obligates the
Star Valley Ranch Water Utility to ensure the availability of a high quality
(State of Wyoming's water quality standards) and ample supply (3/4-inch
connection) of water upon an approved Water Service Connection Request.
   (B)   Plat Amendment - Upon the Town's approval of a Plat Amendment, a fee
shall be applied to each resulting, non-metered lot.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.33 TURN ON/TURN OFF FEES.
   For those requiring such service, a flat fee to be charged to turn on or
turn off a service at the curb stop or in the meter pit.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.34 USAGE FEE.
   (A)   The town will charge a usage fee to all properties on a per gallon
basis for water used during the billing period.
   (B)   The Town may, on a case by case, month by month, basis, elect to
waive, reduce or limit the Charge for the Usage Fee during extraordinary
circumstances.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 50.35 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION REQUEST.
   Any property owner desiring a water service connection shall complete and
sign the Town's "Water Service Connection" Request Form.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No Town permit shall be issued for the erection of any structure
intended for human use or occupancy which is not served by the Town water
supply system meeting all the construction specification, standards and
requirements of the Town and approved by the Town.
      (2)   No person or entity shall connect to or obtain water from the Town
without first completing and signing the Town's "Water Service Connection"
request form and paying the required connection fee as established by Town
Council. All connections and installations are subject to inspection and
approval by Town personnel.
      (3)   If an existing service line is abandoned and properly capped, and a
new service line is established to replace the abandoned service; a permit and
fee is still required.
      (4)   For remodeling and building additions, any new water connections
shall be made between the structure and water meter.
      (5)   Service lines shall only serve one lot and shall not have
additional connections serving any other lot.
      (6)   All yard hydrants and sprinkler systems installed at the option of
the landowner shall have a backflow prevention device, approved by the Town,
placed between the yard hydrant or sprinkler system and the meter pit.
      (7)   Upon completion of work to install the service, and upon inspection
and approval by the Town, the water service line from the main up to and
including the meter pit shall be the property of the Town
      (8)   Prior to connecting to the Town's Water Service Line, the entire,
new Customer Water Line shall be installed not less than six (6) feet below
grade. Depth must be confirmed by a representative of the Town's Water Utility.
   (B)   Permit Application. The permit application shall include the locations
of existing utilities and the locations of the proposed water service including
the meter pit location.
   (C)   Inspection. All water installations shall be inspected by the Town
prior to backfill.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021; Ord. 2022-03, passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 6-15-2022)
§ 50.36 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   The Water Service Connection fee is a fee to be charged for providing
a new water service connection, including the connection. The Water Service
Connection Fee must be paid in full before the water service connection will be
made. A maximum of one connection per lot shall be allowed in any "Single
Family Residential" Zone with the exception of a second connection dedicated
solely for Fire Suppression.
   (B)   For a new service connection, all funds in excess of the actual
installation costs will be placed into the System Reserve. A denied request
administrative fee of 10% will be withheld from any refund amount.
      (1)   The Town may by resolution, reduce the Commercial Water Connection
Fee, on a case-by-case basis, as an incentive to attract businesses into the
Town.
      (2)   A Water Service Connection Fee for service exclusively dedicated to
Fire Suppression will be one-half (1/2) the regular Water Connection Fee. This
reduced fee is applicable when another water line connection provides normal
water use to the property and this service is used only for emergencies.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 8-18-2021; Ord. 2021-25, passed 1-19-2022)
CHAPTER 51: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
51.01   General
   
51.02   Educational programs
   
51.03   Town preparedness
   
51.04   Water shortage classifications
   
51.05   Authority
   
51.06   Fines
   
51.07   Enforcement
§ 51.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   The town wants to be prepared in case of a water emergency. The town
does not want to be accused of “crying wolf” but wants to be prepared in case
of an unforeseen problem. This Water Conservation Plan is designed to exercise
proper stewardship over our water resources.
   (B)   Although water conservation can be imposed on the public, it must be
voluntarily and willingly accepted as a shared responsibility between the water
providers and the water users of the town to be truly effective. The town can
succeed in meeting its long-term water conservation and supply goals and its
commitment to maintaining the town’s status as a desirable place to live only
if water users are willing to embrace and practice a conservation life style.
   (C)   This Water Conservation Plan will remain in effect for the time period
required for the town to develop and implement additional water sources and
storage to meet the town water user’s demand, successfully install meters on
all services, and establish and bill for water usage based on a metered usage.
While the town believes this will take approximately three years, many of the
factors critical to meeting this time period are not under the control of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.010)
§ 51.02 EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS.
   The town may inform water users of the status of culinary water conditions
and the need to conserve by methods of communication that include the
following:
   (A)   Emails;
   (B)   Website articles;
   (C)   Flyers;
   (D)   Water customer mailings;
   (E)   Newsletter articles;
   (F)   Newspaper articles;
   (G)   Town Hall conservation awareness meeting/classes;
   (H)   Town entrance/speed sign poles - top flagged:
      (1)   Yellow - Level I;
      (2)   Orange - Level II; and
      (3)   Red - Level III.
   (I)   Possible “incentive” program (conservation citizen of the year).
(Prior Code, § 4.04.020)
§ 51.03 TOWN PREPAREDNESS.
   The town will maintain an awareness of water supply and use conditions and
prepare for water shortage conditions by implementing or continuing actions
that include the following:
   (A)   Maintain Community Water Advisory Committee. The Community Water
Advisory Committee will provide recommendations of water emergency
classification to the Mayor. It is chaired by the Council member assigned the
Utilities Department. The Town Council recommends individuals to serve on the
committee. The Committee is selected by Mayor and confirmed by the Council;
   (B)   Inspect and test water wells to produce maximum capacity; and
   (C)   Continue “leak test” project and repair of major leaks.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.030)
§ 51.04 WATER SHORTAGE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The following “levels” are guidelines, set based upon the advice of the
Community Water Advisory Committee, however, the Mayor may increase the
declared “level” based on a perceived pending public health and safety issue.
   (A)   Ongoing conservation recommendations and actions.
      (1)   Continue education programs.
      (2)   No water hookups will be made until a building permit has been
issued.
      (3)   Encourage drought resistant landscaping projects.
      (4)   Encourage repair of water leaks in homes.
      (5)   Encourage installation of water saving devices.
   (B)   Level I - Moderate Yellow. - (Storage tanks are not refilling in a 24-
hour period, but have a high level mark of at least 50% of capacity during that
period). The following limitations, actions and requests are implemented upon
the Mayor’s declaration that a Level I water shortage classification exists:
      (1)   Ongoing conservation measures, plus:
         (a)   Initiate alternate evening watering periods for the purpose of
home yard and outside irrigation only based on street address;
         (b)   House numbers ending in even number may water Sunday evening,
Tuesday evening, and Thursday evening, watering period limited from 7:00 p.m.
through 7:00 a.m. the following morning; and
         (c)   House numbers ending in odd number may water Monday evening,
Wednesday evening and Friday evening, the watering period limited from 7:00
p.m. through 7:00 a.m. the following morning.
      (2)   No open end hose watering. Must use a restrictive device on the end
of the hose;
      (3)   No more than one hour per sprinkle setting (location or area);
      (4)   No outside watering on weekends from Saturday 7:00 a.m. through
Sunday 7:00 p.m.;
      (5)   No outside watering the evening before a national holiday;
      (6)   No washing of vehicles, driveways or any outside cleaning with
water; and
      (7)   No recharging of yard fountains or artificial streams.
   (C)   Level II - High, Orange. (Following a minimum of three straight days
of “(moderate) Level I Condition” or tanks are less than 10% of capacity). The
following limitations, actions and requests are implemented upon the Mayor’s
declaration that a Level II water shortage classification exists: Level I
measures, plus:
      (1)   No landscape irrigation; and
      (2)   Request:
         (a)   Limit toilet flushing;
         (b)   Collect warm-up water for use on plants;
         (c)   Full load washing machine only;
         (d)   Full load dish washing only; and
         (e)   Reduce bath water level and shower time by one-half.
   (D)   Level III - Extremely High, Red. (Negative supply to demand or a
minimum of three days of Level II). The following limitations, actions and
requests are implemented upon the Mayor’s declaration that a Level III water
shortage classification exists: Level II measures, plus:
      (1)   No outside watering; and
      (2)   Request:
         (a)   Drink or wash with “warm-up”/”cool down” water;
         (b)   Limit domestic use;
         (c)   One bath/week/person; and
         (d)   No washing machines.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.040)
§ 51.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor has the authority to declare a water emergency, determine the
water shortage classification and implement limitations and actions.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.050)
§ 51.06 FINES.
   Any water user that violates any provisions of this chapter, including
noncompliance with limitations and restrictions of water use under a Level I,
II or III water classification, shall be subject to fines and actions by the
town. (See
Chapter 35, Municipal court bond schedule).
(Prior Code, § 4.04.060)
§ 51.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Town law enforcement officer(s) and/or town special municipal officer
(s) have the authority to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
   (B)   The Municipal Court and Town Judge may be utilized to hear cases
resulting from enforcement of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.070)
CHAPTER 52: LIQUID ASSETS MANAGEMENT
Section
   
52.01   Reserve general
   
52.02   Funds withdrawal authorization
   
52.03   Sinking Fund reserve
   
52.04   Water system reserve
   
52.05   Loan repayment reserve
   
52.06   Plant investment reserve
   
52.07   Capital equipment reserve
   
52.08   Facilities reserve
§ 52.01 RESERVE GENERAL.
   This chapter establishes Water Department reserves and defines their
intended purpose and future uses.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions of types of reserves shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSIGNED (SET BY BUDGET). This classification includes amounts that are
constrained by the town's intent to be used for a specific purpose but are
neither restricted nor committed. This intent can be expressed by the Town
Council or Town Administrator. No other governing body or officials have this
authority delegated to them.
      COMMITTED (ESTABLISHED BY ORDINANCE). This classification includes
amounts that can be used only for specific purposes pursuant to constraints
imposed by formal action of the Town Council. These amounts cannot be used for
any purpose unless the Town Council removes or changes the specified use by
taking the same type of action (ordinance or resolution) that was employed when
the funds were initially committed. This classification also includes
contractual obligations to the extent that existing resources have been
specifically committed for use in satisfying those contractual requirements.
      MAINTENANCE. The budgeted day to day operations, including care and minor
repairs of the system.
      REPAIR. The budgeted modification of an existing system component to:
         (a)   Fix major failed or failing components (usually of significant
cost); or
         (b)   Fix an inferior component that does not meet department
standards.
      REPLACEMENT. The complete replacement of a portion or the entire system
that is beyond the end of useful life expectancy or is requiring extensive
repairs annually.
      RESTRICTED (REQUIRED BY OTHERS, SET BY ORDINANCE). This classification
includes amounts for which constraints have been placed on the use of resources
either:
         (a)   Externally imposed by creditors (such as through a debt
covenant), grantors, contributors or laws or regulations of other governments;
or
         (b)   Imposed by law through constitutional provisions or enabling
legislation.
   (B)   Changes to reserves. Reserves are established to accumulate funds for
specific uses. Unless otherwise provided for in a specific reserve, a reserve
may not be changed, altered, retired, eliminated or abandoned, except by action
of the Town Council through a resolution or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.010) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.02 FUNDS WITHDRAWAL AUTHORIZATION.
   Funds may be withdrawn and used for the specified purposes, as defined in
each reserve's section herein, under the following conditions:
   (A)   Authorization for planned use of reserve funds.
      (1)   Budgeted projects. The project is part of and specifically
identified in the Water Department's annual budget.
      (2)   Procedure. The town will follow the standard procedure for
withdrawing funds from any reserve.
   (B)   Authorization for emergency use of reserve funds. This chapter gives
the Mayor (or Mayor Pro Tem) the authority to declare a "water emergency" for
the specific purpose of using funds from the system reserve to pay for the
emergency repairs of the water system.
      (1)   Water emergency.
         (a)   An emergency exists which significantly threatens the continued
operation of the water system; and
         (b)   There is insufficient time to authorize the use of reserve funds
in order to effectively and timely address the emergency situation.
      (2)   Procedure. Prior to the actual withdrawal of funds from the system
reserve for an emergency project, steps (a) Documentation; and (b) Notification
below, shall be completed.
         (a)   Documentation.
            1.   Declaration shall be within 48 hours of the detection of the
condition.
            2.   A document shall be presented to the Town Clerk for
verification of the action.
            3.   Description of the condition.
            4.   Estimate of time and cost to repair.
            5.   Authorization of Town Clerk to transfer funds from the system
reserve as needed to meet payment requirements.
            6.   Signed by Mayor (or Mayor Pro Tem) and one additional Council
member.
         (b)   Notification. Town Clerk will immediately upon receipt of the
documentation inform the following individuals of the "water emergency" with a
copy of the declaration.
            1.   Town Council.
            2.   Town Administrator.
            3.   Public Works Director.
            4.   Public notification.
         (c)   Review and change the fee schedule for water rates if the
reserve is to be replenished.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.020) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.03 SINKING FUND RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a Sinking Fund Reserve
as a condition of our loans and grants from the Wyoming Water Development
Commission (WWDC).
   (B)   This reserve is classified as a committed reserve.
      (1)   Objective.
         (a)   To remain in total compliance with the terms and conditions of
our loan agreement with the WWDC.
         (b)   To be used for repairs and maintenance to the system.
      (2)   Anticipated size. Required amount per the loan agreement, which is
$500,000.
      (3)   Source of funds.
         (a)   This reserve is fully funded at the inception of this chapter.
Any use of funds from this reserve shall be replaced from water fees at a rate
of one-tenth (10%) per fiscal year until fully funded.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.030) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.04 WATER SYSTEM RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a water system reserve
for the sole purpose of collecting sufficient funds for the repair upgrade and
replacement of the water system's components or the entire system in the
future.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as a committed reserve.
      (1)   Objective. Set aside sufficient funds to repair, upgrade and
replace water system components as needed to protect the water system's
capabilities and capacity.
      (2)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Town Council by resolution or ordinance may deposit, excess
funds from water operations into this reserve.
         (b)   Tap fees will be deposited into this reserve upon receipt
      (3)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.032) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.05 LOAN REPAYMENT RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a loan repayment
reserve for the purpose of collecting funds to meet loan obligations on time
and in full.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as a committed reserve.
      (1)   Objective. To ensure the town's ability to meet all payments
associated with the water department's loans.
      (2)   Anticipated size. Reserve shall be sufficient to meet:
         (a)   The annual payment of all water loans;
         (b)   Any interest or other fees associated with the in-process water
project loans; and
         (c)   Anticipated future payments related to in-process water project
loans.
      (3)   Source of funds.
         (a)      Funds collected from service availability fees and an equal
portion of the water base fees.
         (b)   Town Council by resolution or ordinance may deposit additional
funds into this reserve.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.034) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.06 PLANT INVESTMENT RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a plant investment
reserve for use as a depository of plant investment fees (as described in
Chapter 53) and use of funds for "expansion" costs of the existing water
system's source and storage components.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as a committed reserve.
      (1)   Objective. To protect the water system's future capacity and the
integrity of its operational intent. The funds shall be used to minimize the
cost of any additional expansion to the existing water system.
      (2)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Plant investment fees collected.
      (3)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay invoices that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.036) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.07 CAPITAL EQUIPMENT RESERVE.
   (A)   This section authorizes the creation and use of a capital equipment
reserve as a depository to accumulate funds for future acquisitions of Water
Department equipment.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as a committed reserve.
      (1)   Objective. Provide funds for the purchase of capital equipment used
by the water system as defined by budget.
      (2)   Anticipated size. An amount equal to the anticipated costs of the
planned equipment acquisition costs.
      (3)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Excess funds from operations.
         (b)   Town Council by resolution or ordinance may deposit additional
funds into this reserve.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.038) (Ord. 2024-07, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 52.08 FACILITIES RESERVE:
   (A)   This section authorized the creation and use of a facilities reserve
as a depository to accumulate funds for the future costs of maintaining or
improving the water system's facilities.
   (B)   This reserve is classified as an assigned reserve.
      (1)   Objective. provide funds for the maintenance and improvement of
facilities used by the water system.
      (2)   Anticipated size. An amount equal to the anticipated costs of the
planned facility maintenance or improvement costs as budgeted.
      (3)   Source of funds.
         (a)   Funds budgeted from the collection of water fees.
         (b)   The governing body may by resolution or ordinance deposit funds
into this reserve.
      (4)   Administration. This section authorizes the Town Clerk to deposit,
withdraw, and pay obligations that are in full compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-07, 7-9-2024)
CHAPTER 53: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
53.01   Water Utility
   
53.02   Emergency
   
53.03   Control Valves
   
53.04   Water Service Line
   
53.05   Customer Water Line
   
53.06   Service Areas
   
53.07   Base Fee
   
53.08   Fire Suppression Fees
   
53.09   On-Site Service Fees
   
53.10   Plant Investment Fee
   
53.11   Service Availability Fees
   
53.12   Turn On/Turn Off Fees
   
53.13   Usage Fee
   
53.14   Water Service Connection Request Form
   
53.15   Water Service Connection Fee
§ 53.01 WATER UTILITY.
   All water and water rights, waterworks, and appurtenances thereto,
machinery, equipment and supplies used by the Town to supply consumers with
water
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.02 EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Water Emergency, within the Customer Water Line, is defined as: If the
perceived results of not taking immediate action would result in either harm to
person(s) or significant property damage.
   (B)   Emergency Use, in the case of fire prevention, is defined as: For sole
use in fire suppression.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.03 CONTROL VALVES.
   (A)   Curb Stop: A Town owned valve to control water to an individual
connection on the upstream side of the meter pit.
   (B)   Customer's Turn On-Turn Off Valve: A customer owned valve to control
water to their connection on the downstream side of the meter pit.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.04 WATER SERVICE LINE.
   The line running from the Town's water main to and including the meter and
meter pit.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.05 CUSTOMER WATER LINE.
   The line from the meter to the owner's structure shall be regarded the
property of the owner.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.06 SERVICE AREAS.
   Is one or more, unique, unincorporated geographic areas that the Town
Council has established based upon similar costs of providing service and may
use an average water rate for all customers in that service area.
   (A)   Service Area #1 - (Clark Lane, south of Chokecherry Drive): The NW ¼
of the NE ¼ of Section 25, Township 35N, Range 119W of the 6th Principal
Meridian, Wyoming.
   (B)   Service Area #2 - (East of Muddy String, north of North Forest Drive):
Prater Canyon Estates #1.
   (C)   Service Area #3 - (North of Cedar Drive): A parcel of land, being the
north 40 acres of Homestead near Entry Survey 65, Section 30 Township 35 North,
Range 118 West of the 6th Principal Meridian, Wyoming, being more particularly
described as follows: Beginning at Corner 1 of said Homestead Entry 65; thence
East 20.00 chains to Corner 2 of Homestead Entry 65; thence South 20.00 chains
to Corner 3 of Homestead Entry 65; thence West 20.00 chains; thence North 20.00
chains to the point of beginning.
   (C)   Service Area #4 - An approximately 6.5-acre plot of ground described
as follows: A parcel bound on the north by the south right-of-way of Vista
Drive, on the east by the westerly right-of-way of Cedar Creek Drive, on the
south by the northerly lot line of Lot 1, Plat 16 of Star Valley Ranch and on
the west by the easterly boundary of the Star Valley Ranch Association Airport
property.
   (D)   Service Area #5 - (Area east of Cedar Creek Golf Course Hole #4 Tee
Box): The West ½ of the NW ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 5, Township 34N, Range 118W
of the 6th Principal Meridian, Wyoming.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.07 BASE FEE.
   The Base Fee is based on capital investment in the Town's water
infrastructure, loan payments for such investments, payments as required by
grantees and lenders, and other operational costs determined to be for the
Town's Water System.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.08 FIRE SUPPRESSION FEES.
   For a Service exclusively dedicated to Fire Suppression all applicable fees
except Usage Fees will be billed at one-half the regular fees. This reduced fee
is applicable when another water service line connection provides for normal
water use to the property and this service is only used for emergencies.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.09 ON-SITE SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   A fee for any user requested, on-site assistance, advice or work not
covered in this Title will be at the published rate during normal hours (Monday
through Friday, except holidays, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.).
   (B)   The fee will be 1.5 times the published rate for all other times.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.10 PLANT INVESTMENT FEE.
   (A)   The Town's existing water system is designed and built to support the
fully built out connections within the corporate limits and committed service
areas outside the corporate limits as described in the “Star Valley Ranch
Groundwater Level II Study” Final Report, dated February 2009.
   (B)   This one-time fee is to assure the water system's future capacity and
the integrity of its operational intent. The fee will be assessed to minimize
any additional, future costs to the existing Water System's Users from any
unplanned and unanticipated uses.
   (C)   Additional users resulting from annexation of any subdivision or plat
amendment of existing lot or lots that create additional lots may require
additional water sources, storage capacity and other system upgrades or
additions, all of which shall be at the applicant's expense, constructed to
Town's water system specifications including fire suppression, reviewed by the
Water Utility Board and approved by the Town's Engineer. These costs will be
assessed to the Applicant. Payment of the Fee will be part of a Subdivision
Development Agreement. Terms and conditions as agreed upon by the Applicant,
Water Utility Board and Town Attorney, then approved by the Town Council.
   (D)   For single service requests for a building with multiple Housing Units
and Commercial Units, the assessed number of Plant Investment Fees shall be the
greater of the number of required 3/4-inch meters to accommodate a service per
unit or the size of the pipe for the requested single metered service.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.11 SERVICE AVAILABILITY FEES.
   A monthly Service Availability fee will be charged to all vacant lot owners
that do not have a water meter on the lot, except those denied the right to
water for non-payment. The service availability fee is based on a portion of
the greater of the total loan repayments or depreciation expense. The loan
repayment or depreciation expense is set annually based on the loan repayment
schedule and associated infrastructure costs or the amount determined to
collect for depreciation. The fee shall be placed into the Loan Repayment and
System Reserves.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.12 TURN ON/TURN OFF FEES.
   This is a flat fee to be charged to turn on or turn off a service at the
curb stop or in the meter pit at the user's request. This flat fee will be
valid, based on the following:
   (A)   The meter pit and immediate area around the pit shall be readily
accessible.
   (B)   The request must be scheduled during business hours, a day in advance
and to the quarter hour.
   (C)   The work must be performed during business hours.
   (D)   Any exceptions shall be billed at the on-site service fee rate on a
quarter hour basis with a one hour minimum per incident.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021; Ord. 2022-11, passed 8-17-2022)
§ 53.13 USAGE FEE.
   The Fee will be based upon the annual water system maintenance cost as
authorized by annual Water Utility's operating budget. The water meter readings
determine the amount of water used. The meter readings will normally be made at
approximately the same time each month so that the billing period approximates
a month time frame.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.14 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION REQUEST FORM.
   Please contact Town's Water Clerk for applicable form.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
§ 53.15 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION FEE.
   The fee for a new water service connection, including the connection to the
water main line, meter and stop and waste valve is based on service size.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-18-2021)
CHAPTER 54: WATER RATES
Section:
   
54.01   General
§ 54.01 GENERAL.
   Water rates are set by the governing body by resolution and reviewed
annually.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 6-11-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   ROADS, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   SNOW REMOVAL
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Road Construction
   
70.01   Road construction and repair standards
Uniform Act
   
70.15   Adoption of Uniform Act regulating traffic on highways
   
70.16   Uniform Act; references; roads and streets
   
70.17   Uniform Act; references; governing body
   
70.18   Definitions
   
70.19   Open streets
   
70.20   Off-road recreational vehicles; golf carts
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
§ 70.01 ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR STANDARDS.
   (A)   All road construction and road repairs within the town shall be
completed in strict adherence to town standards.
   (B)   The standards are kept in the Town Clerk’s office at the Town Hall.
These standards have been developed with the guidance of engineering firms (for
example, Forsgren Associates and Sunrise Engineering) and county road
construction standards.
   (C)   The standards take into account the changing geologic conditions of
various areas of the town.
   (D)   The individual having final approval of all road construction and
major repairs shall be the Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.010) (Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-13-2016)
UNIFORM ACT
§ 70.15 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ON HIGHWAYS.
   Except those portions as may conflict with any ordinance of the town, W.S.
§§ 31-5-101 through 31-5-1601, the same being the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highways, as amended by all Session Laws of the state, through and
including the current and future legislative sessions, is adopted by this
reference and incorporated herein as a part of this section as fully as if
completely set out in this section. At least one copy of such provision shall
be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.010) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 70.16 UNIFORM ACT; REFERENCES; ROADS AND STREETS.
   Whenever reference is made in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways
to the word HIGHWAY or STATE HIGHWAY, the same means and includes streets and
roads within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.020) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 70.17 UNIFORM ACT; REFERENCES; GOVERNING BODY.
   Whenever reference is made in the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways
to GOVERNING BODY, LOCAL AUTHORITIES or HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT, the same means and
includes the Town Council of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.030) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 70.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Vehicles that are normally unlicensed,
consisting of golf carts, snowmobiles with and without towed trailers, dirt
bikes, mopeds, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and any other conveyances not
considered an automobile, motorcycle or truck.
   OPEN STREET. A public street designated by Town Council for off-road
recreational vehicles to operate between a residence and a destination
appropriate to the vehicle.
   STATE CERTIFIED PEACE OFFICER. A person authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations, including the
POLICE OFFICER definition in W.S. § 31-5-102.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.040) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 70.19 OPEN STREETS.
   All streets within the town, not classified otherwise, are designated open
streets.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.050) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 70.20 OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   The definition of OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has been expanded in §
70.18 to include golf carts.
   (B)   Operators or passengers in golf carts are not required to wear a
helmet.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.060) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 12-12-2006)
CHAPTER 71: ROADS, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Construction, damage and restoration within road right-of-way
   
71.03   Restricted travel and vehicles
   
71.04   Abandoned vehicles
   
71.05   Parking restrictions
   
71.06   Other street issues
   
71.07   Fines and fees
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motorized conveyance or trailer, licensed or
unlicensed or with expired license or vehicle parts left for more than five
days on public property or streets, alleys or parking lots.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or real estate.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated and publicly owned for use as a street or for
other public purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.010) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2016-01, passed
4-13-2016)
§ 71.02 CONSTRUCTION, DAMAGE AND RESTORATION WITHIN ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The town, by resolution, will establish procedures, permit
requirements and fees for regulating maintenance or new construction activities
that require disturbing and restoration of road right-of-way. These procedures
and permit requirements shall include provisions for proper drainage along the
road in the town’s right-of-way.
   (B)   No person shall damage or cause damage to any road right-of-way within
the town. Any damage to a road right-of-way, other than wear and tear from
normal vehicular travel, that is caused by a vehicle, construction or other
activity, will be the responsibility of the owner of the vehicle, person or
entity that causes the damage. The town reserves the right to repair the damage
and to charge the owner of the vehicle, person or entity that caused the damage
for the cost of repairs including labor, administrative costs, collection fees
and such fines as may be applicable.
   (C)   The town is not liable for damage to any improvements, landscaping,
vehicles or property in the road right-of-way.
   (D)   Any vehicles, utility trailers or property parked or placed within a
road right-of-way that are impeding traffic or causing a hazard to other
traffic may be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense. Should property
damage occur as a result of property parked or placed in the road right-of-way,
the property owner, where the damage occurs, will be liable for any property
damage to vehicles, trash receptacles, portable toilets or other property that
is damaged while placed in the road right-of-way.
   (E)   In all prosecutions for alleged violations of this chapter, the owner
of the vehicle or property shall be prima facie presumed to have been the
person in control of the vehicle or property at the time the offense was
committed.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.020) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2016-02, passed
4-13-2016; Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-19-2022)
§ 71.03 RESTRICTED TRAVEL AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   The town may restrict travel on town roads by vehicles or other
equipment that are considered a hazard or may cause damage to town roads.
   (B)   Vehicles that may be restricted include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicle and load having a length of
more than 45 feet, a width of more than eight feet six inches or a height of
more than 14 feet;
      (2)   Trucks or similar vehicles with a per-axle weight of 24,000 pounds
gross weight or more; and
      (3)   Vehicles carrying explosives or corrosive materials or flammable
substances in excess of ten gallons in containers that are not attached to the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.030) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 71.04 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   The Town Road Superintendent or other town-designated employee or a state
certified peace officer may take into custody abandoned, or junk motor vehicles
and parts or remains thereof which are nuisances and are on public property or
on public streets, alleys and parking lots and:
   (A)   Remove and store the vehicles or parts at the expense of the owner;
   (B)   Permit redemption of the vehicles or parts;
   (C)   If not redeemed after giving public notice, sell the vehicles or parts
without warranty.
   (D)   Pay expenses from the sale; and
   (E)   After lapse of ten days, deposit unclaimed proceeds from the sale of
vehicles or parts into the General Fund of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.040) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 71.05 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle may be parked on or in the road right-of-way in the Town limits
at any time except where permitted with signage or with a parking pass issued
by the Town. No vehicle may be parked in parking areas beyond the time limits
imposed by signs defining these time limits. If designated parking areas on
Town owned property are full during a Town special event, vehicles may park on
roadway shoulders in a manner that does not restrict traffic. Whenever any
motor vehicle without driver is found parked, standing or stopped in violation
of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the town or state law, the
officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number and may take
any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user or
owner, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a parking citation for the
owner to answer to the charge against him or her at a time and place specified
in the citation. In all prosecutions for alleged violations of this chapter,
the owner of the vehicle shall be prima facie presumed to have been the person
in control of the vehicle at the time the offense was committed.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.050) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2022-12, passed
10-19-2022; Ord. 2024-14, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 71.06 OTHER STREET ISSUES.
   (A)   Address numbers must be clearly visible from the street at all times
of the year.
   (B)   No person shall place, throw, scatter or deposit garbage, debris,
refuse or waste material, objects or substances, including abandoned or junked
vehicles upon the road right-of-way. Operators of motor vehicles are
responsible for the disposition or ejection of garbage, debris or other
material from the vehicle while the vehicle is being operated on the town road
right-of-way.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, preserve and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the right of way of all streets and public
grounds, as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing town utilities,
roads or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The town
may, at its option, remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof
which presents an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to public improvements. For those plants rooted on private property
which create an unsafe condition while traveling on town roads, and extend
into, onto, or over a town road right of way the town may clear a vertical
space along the property line to a height of 16' above the right of way. Refer
to Title XV §
154.068 Traffic Visibility at Corners for safety clearance at corners.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.060) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008; Ord. 2016-01, passed
4-13-2016; Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-15-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 FINES AND FEES.
   The town, by ordinance or resolution, will establish a fine and fee schedule
and establish the dollar amounts to be charged as fines for violations or
offenses and as fees for services, permits or costs.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.070) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 72: SNOW REMOVAL
Section
   
72.01   General
   
72.02   Right-of-way
   
72.03   Snow removal near residences
   
72.04   Property in road right-of-way
   
72.05   Violations
§ 72.01 GENERAL.
   This chapter is intended to complement, supplement and reinforce Chapter 71
regarding snow removal requirements and conditions within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.010) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 72.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Snow removal vehicles and equipment shall be given priority consideration
and regular traffic, including pedestrian traffic, shall yield the right-of-way
to this equipment at all intersections and on all roadways.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.020) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 72.03 SNOW REMOVAL NEAR RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Property owners shall not place snow removed from driveways or private
property onto or across the traveled portion of the roadway, or into the road
right of way.
   (B)   Incident to clearing snow from private property, driveways or ends of
driveways; property owners, residents or their agents are prohibited from
leaving berms or piles of ice, snow or slush on the traveled portion of any
roadway in a manner that could hamper the safe and orderly flow of two way
traffic on town roadways, or that could hamper the safe and orderly flow of
traffic on one way split roads.
   (C)   Property owners, residents or their agents are prohibited at all times
from placing snow, by any means, against the roadside opposite or across from
the property from which the snow is being removed.
   (D)   See Title V Public Works §
50.05(B) for regulation concerning the area around fire hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.030) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-11-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-03,
passed 4-11-2023)
§ 72.04 PROPERTY IN ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Property owners shall not place trash containers or any property in
the road right-of-way. The town will not be responsible for damage to
improvements, landscaping, vehicles, or property that is in the road right-of-
way and is damaged by town operations (snow removal, grading, etc.). Any
landscaping, vehicles or property in the road right-of-way are placed there at
the property owner’s risk. The town has the right to remove any obstruction
(e.g. landscaping, driveways, etc.) placed by the property owner in the town’s
right-of-way at the property owner’s expense. Any damage to town equipment or
to other property because of these obstructions placed in the town’s right-of-
way, shall be charged to the property owner.
   (B)   This chapter does not modify or intend to modify any provision of §
71.02. Roads and persons placing property in the road right-of-way may be cited
and/or the property impounded at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   No vehicle may be parked on any roadway in the town limits at any
time. All contractor vehicles must park on private property.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.040) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. 2016-01, passed
4-3-2016; Ord. 2022- 12, passed 10-19-2022)
§ 72.05 VIOLATIONS.
   In all prosecutions for alleged violations of provisions of this chapter,
the owner or resident of the property involved shall be prima facie presumed to
have been the person removing snow at the time the offense was committed.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.050) (Ord. 2009-06, passed 11-11-2009)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   TOWN PROPERTY
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   NOXIOUS WEEDS
      
96.   UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
      
97.   EXCAVATION IN TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animal Care, Control and Regulations
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Effective date
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Dog or cat licensing; registration
   
90.05   Prohibited activities; violations
   
90.06   Town designated off-leash dog park regulations
   
90.07   Public nuisance
   
90.08   Punishment of violators
   
90.09   Probation
   
90.10   Municipal Court bond schedule shall be authorized
Supplemental Feedings of Certain Wild Animals
   
90.25   Purpose
   
90.26   Definitions
   
90.27   Prohibited activities; violations
   
90.28   Punishment of violators
   
90.29   Municipal Court bond schedule shall be authorized
ANIMAL CARE, CONTROL AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes a system to register and regulate dogs or cats
in the Town of Star Valley Ranch (“town”).
(Prior Code, § 12.01.010) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 90.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is effective immediately following the third reading and
passage by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.020) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Shelter appropriate to the breed, physical condition and
climate. Minimum standards for ADEQUATE SHELTER include a waterproof roof,
sufficient insulation to protect from inclement weather, space to make normal
postural movements, freedom from excessive waste and a clean surrounding area
that does not threaten the wellbeing of the animal.
   AGGRESSIVE MANNER. Charging a person to within potential biting or striking
distance while snapping or snarling or growling or displaying teeth in a
threatening manner or exhibiting any behavior demonstrating a potential attack.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under control of a person of
sufficient ability, to control the animal, either by leash, cord or chain.
   BREEDING SERVICES. The raising of dogs or cats for purpose of sale, barter,
trade or any other commercial activity.
   CAT. A domesticated animal (male or female) of the feline family and is not
limited to any particular breed.
   DOG. A domesticated animal (male or female) of the canine family and is not
limited to any particular breed.
   DOG PARK. A fenced park designated by the town which is located in Fox Run
Park for dogs to exercise and play off-leash in a controlled environment under
the supervision of their owners/handlers.
   LEASH. A leash (also called a lead, lead line or tether) is a rope or
similar material used to control an animal by attaching it to a collar,
harness, or halter.
   OWNER. Any person keeping, feeding, harboring, housing, maintaining,
transporting or otherwise having custody of or being in charge of a dog or cat.
   OWNER’S PROPERTY. Property within the town that is owned, rented, leased or
otherwise legally occupied by the owner, his or her tenants, or his or her
agents.
   SPECIAL MUNICIPAL OFFICER. (Town Code § 32.30) The Mayor, with the consent
and approval of the Town Council, may appoint special municipal officers, who
are not certified peace officers, acting under the terms of their appointment
under W.S. § 15-1-103(xliv)(l) with authority to issue citations to individuals
for the purpose of enforcing town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.030) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015; Ord. 2018-03, passed
5-22-2018; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 90.04 DOG OR CAT LICENSING; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Every person owning, harboring or keeping a dog or cat within the
town shall register and license the dog or cat with the town.
      (2)   All dogs or cats over six months old shall be licensed within 30
days of taking residence in the town.
      (3)   Each dog or cat license shall expire on December 31 of the calendar
year for which it was issued and each dog or cat shall be licensed annually,
thereafter.
      (4)   The license and registration fee shall be in an amount as set forth
in the town’s dog or cat licensing/registration fee and rate resolution.
      (5)   Registration fees will be waived for certified service dog or cat
with proof of certification as prescribed by a physician or a certified
trainer.
   (B)   Additional licensing regulations and vaccination requirements.
      (1)   No licensing fee will be prorated for a partial year, nor shall a
refund be issued for any license fee already paid.
      (2)   License is not transferable. In the event the license is lost or
destroyed during the calendar year for which it was issued, a duplicate will be
issued at a fee that will be established by resolution of the Town Council.
      (3)   Owners shall provide the following information and documents to the
town when initially licensing their dog or cat:
         (a)   The name, addresses, phone numbers and email addresses of the
owners;
         (b)   The name, breed, color, sex, and neutered/spayed status of each
dog or cat;
         (c)   A digital photo of each licensed dog or cat; and
         (d)   Written proof that each dog or cat has received a current rabies
vaccination from a certified veterinarian.
      (4)   The owner’s signed confirmation of address and contact information,
along with the animal’s current spayed/neutered and rabies vaccination receipt
from a certified veterinarian shall be required for the annual license.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.040) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 90.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Interference with an officer or investigation. No person shall hinder
or otherwise interfere in any manner with any special municipal officer
discharging and exercising his or her duty in enforcing this subchapter.
   (B)   Animal cruelty. 
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to torture, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate, kill needlessly, poison, abandon, permit
combat between animals or to carry in a cruel and inhumane manner, any animal,
or to cause any of these acts or omissions to be done. It shall be unlawful for
any person owning an animal to fail to provide adequate amounts of food and
drink which shall consist of access to food and drink of sufficient quantities
and quality to maintain basic health.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to fail to provide the animal with necessary
“adequate shelter” and protection from extreme temperatures and precipitation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to not provide medical attention and
treatment to prevent suffering, or to cause any of the acts or omissions to be
done. Ownership or the commission of such acts of cruelty on private property
shall not be justifiable defense for violation of this subchapter as
investigated by a special municipal officer or law enforcement officer.
      (3)   It is unlawful to leave a dog or cat unattended in a motor vehicle
when the temperature is 70°F or above unless, in the opinion of the special
municipal officer or law enforcement officer, adequate ventilation and water is
provided.
      (4)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in the
injury to a domestic animal shall immediately stop and render such assistance
as may be possible and shall take reasonable steps to notify the owner of said
animal or give notice of such accident to a law enforcement officer.
      (5)   It is unlawful and specifically deemed to be animal cruelty, to
abandon, leave behind when moving, drop off or dump any unwanted animal within
the town.
   (C)   Dog or cat licensing required. No owner or custodian shall maintain
any dog or cat over six months of age in the town without registering and
licensing the dog or cat in the town annually. Written proof of current rabies
vaccination from a licensed veterinarian must be provided at time of licensing.
Current license tags issued to dogs or cats must be worn by the dog or cat when
the dog or cat leaves the owner’s property.
   (D)   Dogs and cats are allowed. Limit of four total dogs or cats per
residence. No individual, custodian or caretaker shall have or maintain more
than a total combination of four dogs or cats more than six months of age on
any property within the town.
   (E)   Running at large.
      (1)   Every owner, owner’s agents, caretakers or representatives shall,
at all times, maintain their dogs or cats on the owner’s property. When not on
the owner’s property, the dog or cat shall be under the control of a person of
sufficient ability, to control the animal either by leash, cord or chain or in
an enclosed vehicle, or in a town designated off-leash dog park.
   (F)   Removal of feces requirements. It shall be unlawful for an owner or
any person having charge or control of any dog to permit such animal to
defecate and to allow the feces to remain upon any public street, sidewalk,
pathway, park, pedestrian way or any public facility, or on any private
property not owned or possessed by the owner or person having the charge or
control of such animal unless the person shall immediately and securely enclose
all feces deposited by the animal in a bag, wrapper or other suitable container
and to dispose of the feces in a sanitary manner.
   (G)   Disturbing or barking dogs. No dog owner or their agents shall permit
the dog to disturb others by habitually, constantly and/or frequently barking,
howling, or whining for extended periods of time. The testimony of the special
municipal officer or law enforcement officer based upon personal observation is
competent evidence upon the issue of whether an animal has disturbed the peace
of any neighborhood or person.
   (H)   Vicious dogs. No owner, agent or custodian shall keep, harbor or
maintain any dog which is, or has the propensity to unprovoked aggressive
behavior by acting in an “aggressive manner” which endangers the lives or the
real or personal property of others.
      (1)   Evidence that dog is vicious. Proof of the fact that the animal
without provocation has bitten or attacked any person or any person’s animal at
any place where a person or their animal is legally entitled to be is evidence
that the animal is vicious within the meaning of this section.
      (2)   Home quarantine. Home quarantine may be allowed as determined by
the town special municipal officer or Municipal Court Judge, if the alleged
vicious animal’s owner or custodian presents proof that the dog is currently
licensed in the town and further by presenting a valid and current vaccination
record showing the animal has been vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian.
      (3)   Vicious dog may be destroyed. A licensed or unlicensed dog may be
destroyed for acting in an aggressive manner having attacked any person or
having seriously injured another person’s dog or cat only upon a guilty finding
by the court of jurisdiction. The court, at its discretion, may order the
animal to be evaluated for rehabilitation. In the event rehabilitation is not
possible, any law enforcement official, including a town special municipal
officer, may arrange for the immediate and humane destruction of any
adjudicated animal.
   (I)   Chasing/harassing wildlife or other animals. No owner shall permit his
or her dog to harass or chase any other animal, whether domesticated or wild.
Nothing herein shall limit or prevent a peace officer or game warden from
exercising their discretion to act pursuant to W.S. § 23-3-109.
   (J)   Keeping wildlife prohibited. No person shall keep, harbor or restrain
by tether or enclosure of any nature, any wildlife as defined by W.S. § 23-1-
101(xiii).
   (K)   Disposal of animal remains. No person shall delay in promptly
disposing of the remains of any deceased dog, cat or other animal at a proper
disposal location such as a designated landfill location, pet cemetery or on
the owner’s property. The owner may only dispose of the remains on the owner’s
property if it does not create an unsafe, unsanitary or malodorous condition.
   (L)   No individual, custodian or caretaker shall have or maintain farm
animals such as cattle, horses, hogs, sheep, goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys,
pigeons, rabbits on any property within the Town.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.050) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015; Ord. 2022-06, passed
7-20-2022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 TOWN DESIGNATED OFF-LEASH DOG PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dog owners/handlers are responsible for their dog’s behavior.
   (B)   The town is not liable for any injuries to dogs, their owners/handlers
or to others within the dog park.
      (1)   Designated dog park off-leash exercise areas will be open during
daylight hours.
      (2)   Dogs outside the dog park must be on a leash and under the control
of the owner/handlers at all times. See §
90.05(E), Running at large.
      (3)   Owners/handlers must clean up after their dog. See §
90.05(F), Removal of feces requirement.
      (4)   Owners must be inside the dog park with their dog at all times. No
dogs without people, no people without dogs.
      (5)   Dogs must wear a collar at all times and have current rabies
vaccinations.
      (6)   Dogs showing aggression toward people or other dogs must be muzzled
and/or leashed and escorted out of the dog park by its owner/handler
immediately. See §
90.05(H), Vicious dogs.
      (7)   Dogs that bark excessively must be removed from the park. See §
90.05(G), Disturbing or barking dogs.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.055) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015; Ord. 2018-03, passed
5-22-2018)
§ 90.07 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to any other penalties prescribed in this chapter, violations of
this chapter may be considered a public nuisance for which civil relief may be
sought by the town or any resident of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.060) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 90.08 PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATORS.
   Any person convicted before the Municipal Judge shall be punished by such
fine or imprisonment as may be defined by ordinance. The Municipal Judge shall
have the power to punish for contempt in the same manner and to the same extend
as the District Court. The Municipal Judge of the town may designate specified
offenses of this town in respect to which payment of fines may be accepted by
paying the amount designated without appearance before the Municipal Judge, and
shall specify by suitable schedules the amount of such fines provided such
fines are within the limits declared by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.070) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 90.09 PROBATION.
   Probation may be imposed by the Municipal Judge for any municipal ordinance
conviction or plea agreement pursuant to state law; provided, that the terms of
probation are directly related to an element or circumstance for that
conviction or charge, or for the terms or conditions for paying fines, costs,
fees or restitution. A period of probation not to exceed one year may be
ordered in all sentences or plea agreements consistent with this subchapter. In
convictions which carry no possible jail sentence, all or a portion of the fine
may be suspended when probation is ordered. In convictions for which a jail
sentence is possible, then all such terms of probation as authorized by state
law may be ordered.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.080) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 90.10 MUNICIPAL COURT BOND SCHEDULE SHALL BE AUTHORIZED.
   Setting of and implementation of bond schedules are the exclusive domain of
the court. State Courts are ordered to follow the Supreme Court’s bond
schedule, and Municipal Courts are encouraged to follow the Supreme Court’s
schedule as well. However, the decision of whether or not even to set bonds is
a function limited to the court as part of Wyoming Supreme Court’s Canon 1 of
the Code of Judicial Conduct, “A Judge Shall uphold the Integrity and
Independence of the Judiciary.”
(Prior Code, § 12.01.090) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 7-8-2015)
SUPPLEMENTAL FEEDINGS OF CERTAIN WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.25 PURPOSE.
   The town is located in the wildland-urban interface adjacent to National
Forest lands. The town is built upon historic wildlife winter feeding ground
and wild animals move freely between the town and the National Forest. In
recent years, problems with supplemental feeding have been noted, including
increased wildlife mortality and damage to vegetation. The purpose of this
subchapter is to protect the health and safety of wildlife within the town and
allow wildlife to follow a more normal foraging, browsing and migration pattern
between the town and forest.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.010) (Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 90.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL. The science or art of cultivating the soil, producing crops,
boarding and/or raising permitted livestock.
   SUPPLEMENT FEED ATTRACTANTS. Includes, but is not limited to, any human
food, pet food, including pelleted forage feed, hay salt, forage product or
mineral supplements, grain, fruit, vegetables, seed, garbage and other food
sources and attractants, but does not include incidental food sources such as
lawns and gardens.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.020) (Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 90.27 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Interference with an officer or investigation. No person shall hinder
or otherwise interfere in any manner with any Special Municipal Officer or
designated Law Enforcement Officer discharging and exercising their duty in
enforcing this subchapter.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall knowingly or intentionally provide
supplemental feed attractants to the following wild animals: antelope, deer,
elk, moose, turkey, duck, goose, bobcat, bear, mountain lion, coyote, fox,
raccoon, wolf and skunk.
   (C)   Removal of food. It shall be the duty of each property owner or
occupant to remove any and all supplemental feed attractant placed on the
property in violation of this section. Failure to remove such attractants or
continuing to feed wild animals after receiving notice from the town will
constitute a violation of this section.
   (D)   Removal: modification of feeding device. It shall be the duty of each
property owner or occupant to remove any devise placed on the property from
which wild animals actually feed. Alternatively, the property owner or occupant
may modify such a device to prevent wild animals from having access to or
feeding from the device, or make such other changes to the property that
prevent wild animals from having any access to the device. The failure to
remove such a device or to make such modifications after receiving notification
from the town shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
   (E)   Exemptions. A person engaged in any of the following activities is not
subject to liabilities under this section:
      (1)   A person engaged in the normal feeding of livestock;
      (2)   A person pursuing an agricultural purpose on agricultural land as
defined by W.S. § 39-13-101(a)(iii);
      (3)   A person engaged in the practice of raising crops and crop
aftermath, including hay, alfalfa and grains, produced, harvested, stored or
fed to domestic livestock in accordance with normal agricultural practices;
      (4)   A person engaged in the cultivation of a lawn or garden;
      (5)   Naturally growing materials, including, but not limited to, fruit
and vegetables;
      (6)   A person engaged in bird feeding using a feeder designed to limit
access by the animals specified in division (B) above; or
      (7)   Any Health Department employee, law enforcement officer or a state
or federal game official acting within the scope of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.030) (Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-14-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28 PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATORS.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day or a part of
each day during which a violation occurs or continues. This section does not
preclude the town from taking any appropriate action to abate, prevent or
remedy a violation of any provision of this section.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties prescribed in this chapter,
violations of this chapter may be considered a public nuisance for which civil
relief may be sought by the town or any resident of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.040) (Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-14-2016)
§ 90.29 MUNICIPAL COURT BOND SCHEDULE SHALL BE AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Setting of and implementation of bond schedules are the exclusive
domain of the court. State Courts are ordered to follow the Supreme Court’s
bond schedule, and Municipal Courts are encouraged to follow the Supreme
Court’s schedule as well; however, the decision of whether or not even to set
bonds is a function limited to the court as part of Wyoming Supreme Court’s
Canon 1 of the Code of Judicial Conduct, “A Judge Shall uphold the Integrity
and Independence of the Judiciary.”
   (B)   Any person or persons found in violation of any section of this
chapter, shall be fined or otherwise penalized in a manner consistent with §
35.01, Municipal Court bond schedule.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.060) (Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-14-2016)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   General
   
91.02   Parks and pathways included
   
91.03   Authorized uses
   
91.04   Restrictions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   The town has invested town, private, county and state funds into
community wellness pathways systems.
      (1)   The town wants to build an active healthy community by providing
the park and pathway systems that includes a safe, traffic free, walkable path
that will allow the Star Valley Community as a whole to move freely throughout
the area.
      (2)   The town encourages use of the park and wellness pathways by all
persons of the Star Valley community and visitors.
   (B)   The cost of the ongoing maintenance is related to the types of use
allowed on the property. Authorized uses of the property and restrictions are
being established to minimize both the cost of maintenance and the risk to the
individuals using this property.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.010) (Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 91.02 PARKS AND PATHWAYS INCLUDED.
   (A)   Fox Run Park; and
   (B)   Paved pathways on south side of Vista Drive from Muddy String Road to
Vista West Drive.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.020) (Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 91.03 AUTHORIZED USES.
   (A)   Individual, family and community events;
   (B)   Horses; see restrictions below;
   (C)   Bicycles; see restrictions below;
   (D)   Dogs; all provisions of Chapter 90, Animal Regulations, apply; and
   (E)   Golf carts; allowed on pathway on south side of Vista Drive.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.030) (Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2018-02, passed
5-9-2018)
§ 91.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or allow to be driven any
motorized vehicle on any area except for established roads, parking areas and
on the pathway on south side of Vista Drive. Golf carts being utilized on the
pathway on the south side of Vista Drive shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians. Maintenance, enforcement and safety vehicles or equipment are
exempt from this restriction.
   (B)   Dogs: all provisions of town code Chapter 90, Animal Regulations,
apply.
   (C)    Parking shall be restricted to designated parking areas.
   (D)   Horses may utilize undeveloped areas of Fox Run Park. Horses must be
attended at all times and are restricted from pathways or trails. Horses may
cross pathways or trails to gain access to park property, but then shall remain
a minimum of 30 feet from any pathway, trail, parking area, developed
maintenance facility or rest facility.
   (E)   Bicycles shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (F)   No alcoholic beverages are allowed unless a permit or license has
specifically been issued by the town for an event or activity.
   (G)   All refuse shall be removed: carry out what you carry in.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or trap any animal or bird
or to discharge a firearm within the boundaries of the parks and pathways
included in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.040) (Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-13-2011; Ord. 2018-02, passed
5-9-2018; Ord. 2024-15, passed 12-10-2024)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violators of this chapter will be subject to a fine not less than $250 or to
exceed $1,000 per incident. In addition, violators will be responsible for all
costs of any damages caused by the violation.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.050) (Ord. 2011-06, passed 9-13-2011)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   General
   
92.03   Discharge of fireworks
   
92.04   Recreational fires
   
92.05   Open fires
   
92.06   Violation
   
92.07   Municipal Court bond schedule shall be authorized
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. A combustible or explosive device for producing a striking
display of light or a loud noise, used for signaling or as part of a
celebration.
   PYROTECHNIC. Art of making fireworks, fireworks display.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES. An outdoor fire used for pleasure, religious,
ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes, exclusive of open fires.
   TOWN. The Town of Star Valley Ranch, Wyoming.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.010)
§ 92.02 GENERAL.
   The town is located in the wildland-urban interface, adjacent to U.S. Forest
Service property. Much of the town is located in areas that are subject to lush
forested or grassland vegetation. Approximately one-half of the building lots
within the town are undeveloped and not maintained. This creates an increased
risk of fire during dry conditions due to the accumulation of heavy dry
vegetation. Our town could be subject to extensive damage should a fire occur.
This chapter is established in anticipation of the potential for high fire
danger, and the corresponding threat to life and property in the event of a
wildfire, while recognizing the pleasures of a recreational fire.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.020)
§ 92.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set a flame to, light, fire, explode,
discharge or set off any pyrotechnic device or other object containing powder
or other combustible material within the town boundaries. The effective dates
of this section shall be from April 1 through November 30 of each year, or when
declared by the Mayor with concurrence of at least two Town Council members.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (A)   A RECREATIONAL FIRE is defined as an outdoor fire used for pleasure,
religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes, exclusive of open
fires. Unless allowed by one of the following exceptions, it shall be unlawful
for any person to have a recreational fire within town boundaries from April 1
through November 30 of each year or when declared by the Mayor with concurrence
of at least two Town Council members.
   (B)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Wood burning fire container:
         (a)   Consisting of a freestanding manufactured outdoor fireplace or
fire-pit;
         (b)   Constructed of stone, concrete block, concrete, metal, ceramic
or other noncombustible material;
         (c)   Shall have burn chambers entirely enclosed by noncombustible
solid or spark arresting materials; and
         (d)   Chimneys and/or other smoke and heat discharge areas shall be
provided with spark arrestors.
      (2)   Gas-burning fire container:
         (a)   Consisting of a freestanding manufactured outdoor fireplace or
fire-pit;
         (b)   Constructed of stone, concrete block, concrete, metal, ceramic
or other noncombustible material; and
         (c)   Shall have a burn chamber.
      (3)   Manufactured or permanently constructed barbecue grills (gas or
charcoal), designed for food preparation, when in use shall maintain at least
the minimum combustible material clearance specified by the manufacturer. If no
combustible material clearance is specified, the minimum distance is three
feet.
      (4)   All fires must be attended at all times, until fully extinguished
with water, turned off or extinguished by other methods resulting in a similar
effect.
      (5)   The town reserves the right to issue a one-event, special burn
permit with the signature of three Council members.
      (6)   Other “exceptions” may be permitted but must be requested in
writing by a current legal home occupant, approved by signature of any two of
the following: the Mayor or Town Council, special municipal officer, Public
Works Director, Town Administrator and attested by the Town Clerk, a copy of
which must be available during the burning period.
      (7)   No exceptions as specified in divisions (B)(1) or (B)(6) above are
permitted when the Energy Release Component (ERC), as measured by the Teton
Interagency Dispatch Center meets or exceeds an average of 60 over three
consecutive days. The Mayor, with concurrence of at least two Town Council
members, also have the option of temporarily canceling the exceptions in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(6) above based on other criteria, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Local fire activity;
         (b)   Lack of firefighting resources;
         (c)   Predicted extreme fire danger or “red flag” conditions; and
         (d)   Fine fuels (grasses) are fully cured out.
   (C)   Note: §
150.060 states “No fires are permitted to dispose of construction material,
demolition or yard debris”. This is unchanged and stays in effect.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.040)
§ 92.05 OPEN FIRES.
   (A)   Open burning of any trash, tree trimmings, leaf and grass rakings, or
other such debris is prohibited.
   (B)   Open fires set by public safety officials in performance of their
duties are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.050)
§ 92.06 VIOLATION.
   Any outdoor fire, not specifically permitted in this chapter, shall be a
violation.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.060)
§ 92.07 MUNICIPAL COURT BOND SCHEDULE SHALL BE AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Setting of and implementation of bond schedules are the exclusive
domain of the court. State Courts are ordered to follow the Supreme Court’s
bond schedule, and Municipal Courts are encouraged to follow the Supreme
Court’s schedule as well. However, the decision of whether or not even to set
bonds is a function limited to the court as part of Wyoming Supreme Court’s
Canon 1 of the Code of Judicial Conduct, “A Judge Shall uphold the Integrity
and Independence of the Judiciary.”
   (B)   Any person or persons found in violation of any section of this
chapter, shall be fined or otherwise penalized in a manner consistent with
Chapter 35, Bond schedule of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.070)
CHAPTER 93: TOWN PROPERTY
Section
   
93.01   Town Property
§ 93.01 TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Injuring, Etc.
      (1)   No person shall injure, damage, destroy or deface any tree, shrub,
plant, flower, lawn, fence, bridge, street, walking path, streetlights, utility
line, equipment, tool, or any other property, improvement, building or
structure of the Town.
      (2)   The town may post regulations regarding conduct on town property.
Any person who violates a posted regulation is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined up to $750 per incident.
   (B)   Posting Bills. No person shall affix any placard or other paper upon
any structure within or upon any property of the town, nor upon any such fence,
tree, or enclosure thereof.
   (C)   Occupying Without Lease, Etc. No person shall occupy any land owned by
the town, within or outside of the town limits, for any purpose whatsoever,
without first having secured a lease or other official agreement from the Town
Council, to so occupy.
   (D)   Removal of Sod, Gravel, Etc. No person shall dig, remove or cause to
be removed any sod, stone, earth, sand, or gravel from any street, or public
ground in the town, without first having obtained permission therefor of the
Mayor and Public Works.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 6-15-2010)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Violation prohibited
   
94.02   Nuisance conditions defined
   
94.03   Notice to abate nuisance; compliance required
   
94.04   Enforcement; initiation of complaint; notice to abate nuisance;
contents; procedure
   
94.05   Hearing procedure
   
94.06   Removal; voluntary consent; affidavit
   
94.07   Disposal; assessment of costs
   
94.08   Search warrant
   
94.09   Abatement; court action authorized
§ 94.01 VIOLATION PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, property owner(s) or occupant to maintain or
permit the existence of any nuisance, as defined herein, on any property within
the Town. Any person in violation of this section shall, in addition to any
penalty that may be imposed for the violation of this code, be subject to the
provisions of this chapter and be required to reimburse the Town for expenses
incurred in the abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 94.02 NUISANCE CONDITIONS DEFINED.
   Each of the following conditions described shall constitute a public
nuisance. The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall
not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by this code.
   (A)   Derelict, junked, etcetera, vehicles: unlicensed, derelict, or junk
vehicles and parts or remains thereof parked upon private property, public
property, public streets, alleys, easements, rights of way or other ways are
declared to be nuisances. The presence of an unlicensed vehicle, wrecked,
dismantled, derelict or inoperative vehicle, on private or public property, is
declared to constitute a public nuisance that may be abated as such in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The tearing down, stripping or
junking of such vehicles shall be permitted only where and when such use is
specifically authorized, permitted or licensed under other ordinances of the
town and in strict accordance therewith; or which use is conducted entirely
within the confines of an accessory garage building, then only provided that
such vehicle is the property of the owner or occupier of the lot and that such
use is not a commercial use of the property, unless such use is authorized by
other ordinances of the town.
      (1)   Derelict Vehicles: A vehicle, or parts thereof, shall be deemed to
be “derelict” if the vehicle is:
         (a)   Partially or wholly dismantled.
         (b)   In a condition that prevents legal operations.
         (c)   Junked or intended to be recycled or scrapped.
      (2)   Definition Of Vehicles: For purposes of this chapter, “vehicles”
shall include vehicles, motor vehicles, passenger cars, multipurpose vehicles,
utility trailers, motorcycles, pickup trucks, and snowmobiles as defined in
either Wyoming Statutes §§ 31-1-101 or 31-5-102, and watercraft as defined in
Wyoming Statutes § 41-13-101.
      (3)   Exceptions: The section defining and prohibiting derelict vehicles
shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Vehicles that are enclosed within a secure building.
         (b)   A vehicle which is covered by an intact cover which is securely
attached to the vehicle, and which covers the entire vehicle, with the
exception of the wheels. Residents shall not have more than one covered vehicle
unless out of public view.
   (B)   Junk: refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, tires, electronic
equipment or appliance that is not being used for its intended use, or other
waste and discarded material of any nature or substance whatsoever or any scrap
or salvage materials which are left or permitted to remain upon any real
property within the town and castoff or discarded articles and materials ready
for destruction, when stored outside of a building are a nuisance and an
immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Undeveloped lots: Parking or storage of any vehicle of any type or any
watercraft, trailers and the storage of junk, as described in paragraph B
above, shall be declared a nuisance, and subject to penalties.
   (D)   Developed Lots: Only personal type vehicles may be parked or stored on
developed lots and all such vehicles shall be in compliance with Town
ordinances. These personal type vehicles shall be limited to passenger cars,
pickup trucks, multipurpose vehicles, snowmobiles, motorhomes, utility
trailers, RV trailers and watercraft as defined in Wyoming Statutes §§ 31-1-
101, 31-15-102 and 41-13-101. Other vehicles shall be declared a nuisance. No
vehicle shall be parked in that portion of the front yard of a residential lot
which would normally be landscaped.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021; Ord. 2023-12, passed 1-9-2024)
§ 94.03 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person receiving the notice of a public
nuisance as provided in this chapter to comply with the provision of the notice
and to abate such nuisance within fifteen (15) calendar days after delivery of
such notice, and if such person shall fail or refuse to abate such nuisance
within fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of such notice without just
cause, such failure is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day such nuisance persists shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   It is unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor for any person,
after having received notice as provided in this chapter, to remove any vehicle
or junk from private property to any other private property upon which storage
is not permitted, or onto any public property.
   (C)   If the nuisance is not abated within the time provided, and after
notice as provided by section
94.04 of this chapter, the town may abate the nuisance, and the cost of
abatement may be charged to the owner of the nuisance or assessed against the
land upon which the nuisance exists or both.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, the term “delivery” shall refer to the
date a notice is hand delivered to the property owner or an occupant who is at
least eighteen (18) years at the last known address of the property owner; or
the date of delivery as shown on a certified mailing receipt; or the last date
of publication if service is by publication.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT; INITIATION OF COMPLAINT; NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE;
CONTENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person may initiate a complaint against a property owner or
occupant if, in their opinion, a nuisance condition as defined in this title,
exists on a property or lot within the town. The written complaint shall be on
a form to be provided by the town, and shall be signed by the complaining
party, dated and shall be delivered to the town special municipal officer for
investigation. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
initiation of an investigation by a special municipal officer or peace officer
or other employee of the town without such a complaint.
   (B)   Whenever the town receives a written, signed complaint as described
above, that any condition is a public nuisance as defined in this chapter, or
in the event that an officer or town employee observes a condition which
appears to be a public nuisance as defined in this chapter, the town shall
investigate such complaint, and if the officer determines that a nuisance
exists, the officer shall attempt to give written notice to the owner of the
condition, if his or her address is known, to the owner of the land where the
condition is located, and to any other person or entity known by the town to
have a security interest in the vehicle or junk. The notice shall be attempted
by certified mail, return receipt requested, or personal service, if the
address of the individual or entity is known. In the case of vehicles, where
practical, the notice shall also be affixed to the windshield or some other
part of the vehicle where it can be easily seen. Where affixing the notice to a
vehicle is impractical, and in the case of junk, the notice shall be posted at
the site or on the premises where the nuisance exists. Such notice shall be in
effect for the next twelve (12) consecutive months, and the owner of the lot,
parcel or vehicle shall be responsible for controlling the nuisance condition
as prescribed above for the duration of the twelve (12) month period, without
the need for renotification. After the initial notice, any subsequent period of
noncompliance shall also be a violation of this section.
   (C)   Such notice shall include substantially the following information:
      (1)   A statement that a certain condition is a nuisance within the
provisions of section
94.02 of this chapter; in the case of a vehicle, the notice should include the
make, year and vehicle identification number if reasonably possible;
      (2)   A description of the real property, by street address or otherwise,
on which the nuisance exists;
      (3)   A statement that such nuisance must be abated within fifteen (15)
calendar days from the delivery of the notice;
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, the town may abate the nuisance, and the cost of abatement may be
charged to the owner of the nuisance or assessed against the land upon which
the nuisance exists or both.
      (5)   A statement that a hearing upon the allegation of a public nuisance
and the assessment of costs may be requested by giving written notice to the
clerk of municipal court within ten (10) calendar days from the date of
delivery of the notice, and that a request must specify the property concerning
which the request is made, the requesting party’s name and address, and the
nature of the interest held by the requesting party; that upon request a
hearing will be scheduled to determine if a public nuisance exists and as to
the assessment of administrative costs and the costs of abatement; that if a
hearing is not so requested the right to a hearing, and the issue of whether a
nuisance exists shall be waived;
      (6)   A statement that failure to abate the nuisance may result in a town
abatement and/or criminal charges.
   (D)   In the event that notice cannot be served by certified mail or in
person as described above, service shall be made by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in Lincoln County. The notice by publication shall
contain the same information required in the notice described above. The notice
shall be published at least twice, with each notice appearing at least seven
(7) calendar days apart. Notice by publication may contain multiple listings of
public nuisances.
   (E)   Proof of notice shall be made by certification of any officer or
employee of the Town, or affidavit of any person over eighteen (18) years of
age, naming the person to whom notice was given and specifying the time, place
and manner thereof. Proof of notice shall be made in each case and maintained
for a period of two (2) years from the date of abatement of the nuisance for
which notice has been given.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
§ 94.05 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A request for a hearing upon the allegation of a public nuisance and
the assessment of costs shall be made in writing and delivered to the municipal
court clerk within ten (10) calendar days from the date of delivery of the
notice to abate. Such request shall specify the property concerning which the
request is made, the requesting party’s name and address, and nature of the
interest held by the requesting party in the vehicle or junk.
   (B)   In the event of a public nuisance as defined in section
94.02 of this chapter of which notice has been given, and which remains
unabated for more than fifteen (15) calendar days after delivery, the town
special municipal officer, peace officer or their designee is granted authority
to abate, remove or cause the removal of the nuisance; provided however, that
if a proper request for hearing is filed, abatement shall only proceed upon
order of the municipal court judge or hearing examiner.
   (C)   In the event a request for hearing is filed as provided, a hearing
shall be held before a hearing examiner or municipal judge designated by the
governing body. The purpose of the hearing shall be to confirm or deny the
existence of a public nuisance and for taking such further action as is
authorized under this chapter. Notice of the time, place and hour of the
hearing shall be sent at least ten (10) calendar days in advance of the hearing
to the requesting parties and the town attorney.
   (D)   At such hearing, all parties and the town shall be afforded an
opportunity to present evidence, to cross examine and present argument;
provided that all persons testifying shall be sworn; irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded; and the decision of the hearing
examiner shall be based upon the evidence submitted at the hearing. The hearing
examiner shall allow evidence according to the rules generally applicable to
contest case hearing under the Wyoming administrative procedure act.
   (E)   At or after such hearing, and in the event of confirmation that a
public nuisance exists, the municipal court may resolve or order that the town
and/or employee or agents remove or otherwise abate the nuisance; provided,
however, that if the circumstances justify, in the opinion of the municipal
court, the time for abatement may be delayed. In the event a nuisance is
confirmed, administrative removal costs may also be assessed at the hearing. If
it is found that a public nuisance does not exist, abatement authority shall be
denied and costs shall not be assessed.
   (F)   Appeals from adverse decisions rendered by the municipal court may be
made to the district court in the same manner as an appeal from an adverse
decision rendered by an agency in a contested case under the provisions of
Wyoming Statutes section 16-3-114.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
94.06 REMOVAL; VOLUNTARY CONSENT; AFFIDAVIT.
The owner of any vehicle or junk or the owner of real property where any junk
or vehicle has been abandoned may voluntarily consent to the removal of such
property by the town. In order to give such consent, all owners of the property
shall execute an affidavit in a form acceptable to the town prosecuting
attorney, stating that there are no other owners of the property or lienholders
having a security interest in the property; that the owners will reimburse the
town for the actual costs of removal or such other costs as are established by
the town administrator and/or employee for such removal; and that such
reimbursement will be made to the town within thirty (30) calendar days of
removal. Such affidavit shall constitute a statement by the owners signing such
affidavit that they will indemnify the town for any loss or expense alleged by
any other party as a result of removal or disposal. The execution of such
affidavit shall also release the town from any obligation to account or pay
over to the owners any amount the town receives for the property. The owner’s
consent to the removal of any junk or vehicle by the town, and the town’s
subsequent removal of junk and/or vehicles from the owner’s property, shall not
in any way be deemed a continuing obligation or responsibility on the part of
the town to maintain the property, and shall not relieve the property owner of
their obligation and responsibility to continue to maintain the property.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
94.07 DISPOSAL; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Any vehicle or junk which is impounded or removed and taken into
custody, as provided in this chapter, may be disposed of according to the
provisions of Wyoming Statutes section 7-2-105, or 31-13-108, 31-13-109 and 31-
13-110.
   (B)   The town administration, or the town designee, shall determine the
costs of removal and disposal in each case. The town administration and/or
employee shall take into account the amount of time spent by town employees,
the cost and time involved for the use of town equipment and fuel, and the
costs and expenses for disposing of the vehicles, junk and/or other materials
constituting the nuisance. The town administration and/or employee may contract
with a company, firm or individual who is not an employee of the town to remove
or abate the nuisance, and the cost of such removal shall be assessed against
the property owner. The town may take any action allowed by law to collect the
actual costs of removal and storage of any property constituting a public
nuisance. Nothing herein shall prohibit the town from waiving the cost of
removal.
   (C)   Upon the owner’s failure and/or refusal to comply with the written
notice to remove the nuisance within the specified time period, the town
administration or special municipal officer or their designee may, in addition
to issuing the owner a citation, after the expiration of the time to request a
hearing, or if a hearing is requested, after the hearing examiner or municipal
judge find that a nuisance exists, authorize the removal of such nuisance, and
the owner of the lot or parcel from which the nuisance is removed shall be
liable for all costs of the removal.
   (D)   The town administration or special municipal officer or their designee
may initiate legal proceedings for the collection of costs of removal against
the owner of the lot or parcel, upon the owner’s failure and/or refusal to pay
the costs within thirty (30) calendar days following demand for payment by the
town.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
94.08 SEARCH WARRANT.
   (A)   The special municipal officer and peace officer may make application
to the municipal court for authority to enter upon land to examine vehicles,
junk, weeds or any other condition for the purpose of making a determination as
to whether a public nuisance exists and/or securing information as to the
ownership of a vehicle or junk thought to constitute a public nuisance and/or
securing information as to the identity of the person or persons in control of
the land where the vehicle or junk is situated. This section shall not in any
way be construed to limit the authority of law enforcement to lawfully enter
upon and search premises without a warrant to the extent such entry and search
is authorized by and consistent with the United States and Wyoming
constitutions.
   (B)   The municipal court has authority to issue search warrants and other
process necessary to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   A warrant shall issue only upon affidavit sworn to before a person
authorized by law to administer oaths and establishing the grounds for issuing
the warrant. If the judge is satisfied that the grounds for the application
exist or that there is probable cause to believe that they exist, he shall
issue a warrant identifying the purpose of the search, and naming or describing
the place to be searched. The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff’s
office, or any officer authorized to enforce or assist in enforcing the laws of
the town or state. The warrant shall state the grounds or probable cause for
its issuance and the names of the persons whose affidavits have been taken in
support thereof. It shall command the officer to search, within a specified
period of time not to exceed ten calendar (10) days, the property identified.
The warrant shall direct that it be served between six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and
ten o’clock (10:00) P.M., unless the court, upon reasonable cause shown,
authorizes the execution at other times.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
94.09 ABATEMENT; COURT ACTION AUTHORIZED.
   The town prosecuting attorney is authorized to institute such proceedings in
the name of the town in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against
any property, entity or individual for which the charge for abating a nuisance
under this chapter has remained unpaid for a period of thirty (30) calendar
days after a bill therefore has been rendered to the owner of the property
involved.
(Ord. 2023-12, 1-9-2024)
CHAPTER 95: NOXIOUS WEEDS
Section
   
95.01   Noxious weeds defined
   
95.02   Weeds on private property prohibited
   
95.03   Right of entry
§ 95.01 NOXIOUS WEEDS DEFINED.
   Whenever used in this chapter, NOXIOUS WEEDS means those weeds on the
designated Lincoln County and the Town's declared list:
   (A)   Black Henbane Hyoscyamus niger.
   (B)   Canada Thistle Cirsium arvense.
   (C)   Dyers Woad Isatis tinctoria.
   (D)   Hoary Cress (whitetop) Cardaria draba and Cardaria pubescens.
   (E)   Hounds Tongue Cynoglossum officinale.
   (F)   Leafy spurge Euphorbia esula.
   (G)   Musk Thistle Carduus nutans.
   (H)   Ox-Eye Daisy Leucanthemum vulgare.
   (I)   Scotch Thistle Onopordum acanthium.
   (J)   Spotted Knapweed Centaurea maclosa.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 95.02 NOXIOUS WEEDS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No owner(s) of any property, or area within the Town, or agent of such owner
(s), shall permit noxious weeds on such property. The existence of a
significant infestation, as determined by the Town Special Municipal Officer
(SMO), such noxious weeds constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 95.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Right of entry is only granted with the owner(s) consent at any reasonable
time for the purpose of inspecting and/or assisting in the abatement of noxious
weeds as described in this chapter
   (A)   When right of entry is denied, it is the owner(s) responsibility to
remove the noxious weeds.
   (B)   Failure to act to control the noxious weeds within ten business days
written of notice, by certified mail, shall be subject to a fine of up to
$100.00 per day.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 96: UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
96.01   General
   
96.02   Unsafe structure
   
96.03   Unsafe equipment
   
96.04   Structure unfit for human occupancy
   
96.05   Unlawful structure
   
96.06   Unsafe structures or premises
   
96.07   Closing of vacant structures
   
96.08   Authority to disconnect service utilities
   
96.09   Notice
   
96.10   Placarding
   
96.11   Placard removal
   
96.12   Prohibited occupancy
   
96.13   Abatement methods
   
96.14   Record
   
96.15   Unlawful acts
   
96.16   Notice violation
   
96.17   Prosecution of violation
   
96.18   Violation penalties
   
96.19   Abatement of violation
   
96.20   Notice to responsible person
   
96.21   Form
   
96.22   Method of service
   
96.23   Unauthorized tampering
   
96.24   Penalties
   
96.25   Transfer of ownership
   
96.26   Means of appeal
§ 96.01 GENERAL.
   When a structure or equipment is found by the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO) to be unsafe, or when a structure is found
unfit for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be
condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.02 UNSAFE STRUCTURE.
   An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous to the life,
health, property, or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by
not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in the event of
fire, or because such structure contains, unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or
unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.03 UNSAFE EQUIPMENT.
   Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving
stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other
equipment on the premises or within the structure that is such disrepair or
condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property, or safety
of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.04 STRUCTURE UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY.
   A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the building inspector
and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because equipment is found by the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO) to be unsafe, unlawful or, because of the
degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance , is
unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks
ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential
equipment required by this code, or because of location of the structure
constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the structure or the public.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.05 UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE.
   An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by
more persons than permitted under this code, or was erected, altered, or
occupied contrary to law.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.06 UNSAFE STRUCTURES OR PREMISES.
   For the purpose of this code, any structure or premises that has any or all
of the conditions or defects described as follows shall be considered to be
dangerous.
   (A)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway exit or other means of egress
that does not conform to the approved building fire code of the Town as related
to equipment for existing buildings.
   (B)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other
means of egress is so warped, worn or loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as not to
provide safe and adequate means of egress.
   (C)   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has been
damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment,
vandalism or by any other cause to such extent that it is likely to collapse
partially or completely, or to become detached or dislodged.
   (D)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the
original designed value.
   (E)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the
removal, or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support,
or for any reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fail or give away.
   (F)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly unsafe
for its use and occupancy.
   (G)   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured, or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, become a harbor for
vagrants, criminals, or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
   (H)   Any building or structure has been constructed, exist, or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved building or fire code of
the jurisdiction, or any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety.
   (I)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purpose, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty
construction or arrangement inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical or
plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO) to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or
in such a that is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   (J)   Any building or structure, because of lack of sufficient or proper
fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection system, electrical systems,
fuel connections, mechanical systems, plumbing systems or other cause, is
determined by the building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) to
be a threat to life or health.
   (K)   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or
destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or structure
is abandoned as to constitute such building or portion thereof as an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.07 CLOSING OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and
is not in danger of structural collapse, the building inspector and/or Special
Municipal Officer (SMO) is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the
premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance; written notice shall be sent by certified mail to the owner(s),
occupant, or agent of the property. Upon failure of the owner or owner's
authorized agent to close up the premises within the time specified in the
order, the building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall
cause the premises to be closed and secured through any available public agency
or by contract or arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate and shall be collected by any other legal
resource.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.08 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE UTILITIES.
   The building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall have
authority to authorize disconnection of the utility service to the building,
structure or system regulated by this code in case of an emergency where
necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.09 NOTICE.
   Whenever the building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) has
condemned a structure or equipment under provisions of this section, notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by
such notice and served on the owner, owner(s) authorized agent or the person or
persons responsible for the structure or equipment in accordance with § 96.22.
If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall be placed on the condemned
equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in § 96.21.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.10 PLACARDING.
   Upon failure of the owner, owner's authorized agent or person responsible to
comply with the notice provisions within the time given., the building
inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall post on the premises or
on the defective equipment a placard bearing the word “Condemned” and a
statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the
equipment, or removing the placard.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.11 PLACARD REMOVAL.
   The building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall remove
the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person
who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the
building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall be subject to
the penalties provided by this code.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.12 PROHIBITED OCCUPANCY.
   Any occupied structure condemned and placarded by the building inspector
and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall be vacated as ordered by the
building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO). Any person who shall
occupy a placarded premise or shall operate placarded equipment, and any owner,
owner's authorized agent or person responsible for the premises who shall let
anyone occupy a placarded premise or operate placarded equipment shall be
liable for the penalties provided in this code.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.13 ABATEMENT METHODS.
   The owner, owner's authorized agent, operator or occupant of a building,
premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the building inspector and/or Special
Municipal Officer (SMO) shall abate or cause to be abated or corrected such
unsafe conditions either by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or other
approved corrective action.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.14 RECORD.
   The building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall cause a
report to be filed with the town on an unsafe condition. The report shall state
the nature of the unsafe condition.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.15 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to be in conflict
with or in violation of any provision of this code.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.16 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall serve a
notice of violation or order in accordance with §§
96.20 through
96.25.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.17 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION.
   Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order served in
accordance with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with §§
96.20 through
96.25 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil infraction as determined
by the Town, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offence. If
the notice of violation is not complied with, the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall institute the appropriate proceeding at
law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require
the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in
violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made
pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such
premises shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is
located and shall be lien upon such real estate.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.18 VIOLATION PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to comply
therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be fined not more
than $750.00. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offence.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.19 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the
Town from initiating appropriate action, to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or
premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the
building, structure, or premises.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.20 NOTICE TO RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
   Whenever the building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO)
determines that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to
believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner
prescribed in §§
96.21 and
96.22 to the person responsible for the violation as specified in this code.
Notices for condemnation procedures shall comply with §
96.16.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.21 FORM.
   Such notice prescribed in §
96.20 shall be in accordance with all of the following.
   (A)   Be in writing by certified mail
   (B)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
   (C)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why they are
being issued.
   (D)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (E)   Inform the property owner or owner's authorized agent of the right to
appeal in accordance with §
96.26.
   (F)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with §
96.19.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.22 METHOD OF SERVICE.
   Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is
delivered personally or sent by certified mail addressed to the last known
address. If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a
copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.23 UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING.
   Signs, tags, or seals posted or affixed by the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO) shall not be mutilated, destroyed, or tampered
with, or removed without authorization from the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO).
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.24 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall be set forth in §
96.18.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.25 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served
to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit
or structure to another until the provisions of the compliance order or notice
of violation has been complied with, or until such owner or the owner's
authorized agent shall furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a
true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the building
inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) and shall furnish to the
building inspector and/or Special Municipal Officer (SMO) a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, acknowledging and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making corrections or
repairs by such compliance order or notice of violation, by date specified in
notarized statement.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
§ 96.26 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   Any person directly affected by a decision of the building inspector and/or
Special Municipal Officer (SMO) or a notice or order issued under this code
shall have the right to appeal to the clerk of the court, provided that a
written application for appeal is filed within ten business days after the
decision, notice or order was served. If an appeal is not filed, the right to
an appeal and the issue of whether an unsafe structure or equipment exists
shall be waived. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the
true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
(Ord. 2021-17, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 97: EXCAVATION IN TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
97.01   General
   
97.02   Application
   
97.03   Review and Issuance
   
97.04   Inspection
   
97.05   Completion
   
97.06   Emergency Repair
   
97.07   Warranty
   
97.08   Site Conditions and Permittee Responsibilities
§ 97.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   Without obtaining a right-of-way permit from the Town, it is unlawful
for any person to:
      (1)   Construct infrastructure such as, but not limited to, sidewalk,
boardwalk, curbs, gutters, and street paving within any street.
      (2)   Dig up, break, excavate, tunnel, undermine, or in any manner break
up any street, or to make or cause to be made any excavation in or under the
surface of any street for any purpose.
      (3)   Place, deposit, or leave upon any street any earth or other
excavated material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the
street, or
      (4)   Move an existing house, building, or structure on or over any
street for the purposes of construction, excavation, tunneling, or storage of
materials or for activities which would facilitate such.
   (B)   No dig periods. No right-of-way permit shall be issued starting
November 1 through April 15 of each calendar year, except by special permission
of the Town. The April 15 date may be extended or shortened at the election of
the Town Council.
   (C)   All right-of-way excavation work shall comply with Town specifications
   (D)   Unless otherwise approved by the Town, fiber communications
facilities, gas facilities and electric facilities shall be buried as per
subject utility specifications and drawings.
   (E)   The provisions of this article shall not be applicable to any
excavation work under the direction of Town authorities, by employees of the
Town or by any contractor of the Town performing work for and on behalf of the
Town necessitating openings or excavations in streets.
   (F)   The provisions of this article shall be applicable to all persons
operating public utilities in the Town under franchises granted by the Town and
having the right, either by general or special permission, to enter upon
streets and open and excavate pavements, sidewalks or disturb the surface
thereof by excavation or other work, and such persons shall be required to
apply for a permit and to comply with all other provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application shall include emergency contact information, dates of
work, construction plans, work schedule, traffic control plan, necessary
encroachment agreements.
   (B)   The Town reserves the right to require the construction plans to be
prepared by a Wyoming licensed professional engineer.
   (C)   Proof of liability insurance from the contractor doing work within the
right-of-way and an additional insured status of its operations and/or
employees, vehicles, equipment and actions, and a signed indemnification
agreement further indemnifying the Town of all liability created out of the
actions of the subject contractor on the subject work.
   (D)   General liability to cover public and private property damage; hold
harmless form. Liability insurance shall be maintained in an amount not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for damages per occurrence and in the
amount not less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The
Town may require a certificate of insurance and an additional insured status
with a waiver of subrogation.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.03 REVIEW AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The application shall be submitted no more than four weeks prior to
the start of construction unless prior approval is granted by the Town to
submit it earlier.
   (B)   Length of time for application review is dependent upon the size and
complexity of the work to be done within the Town right-of-way.
   (C)   A permit shall not be assigned or transferred without the written
consent of the Town.
   (D)   The permittee shall maintain an on-site copy of the approved permit,
plans, and specifications. (Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All inspections shall have forty-eight-hour notice to the Town for
inspection calls. Inspections will be conducted Monday through Thursday between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Weekend and after-hours inspections may be
arranged if Town staffing allows. All after-hours inspections will be billed in
advance at a rate established by Town Council.
   (B)   Town staff shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in
the enforcement of this article.
   (C)   The Town reserves the right to require a third-party engineer to
conduct inspections, at the expense of the permittee. Third-party inspectors
must be preapproved by the Town. (Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.05 COMPLETION.
   (A)   The permittee shall prosecute and complete all work covered by the
right-of way permit and shall restore the street to its original condition not
later than the date specified in the right-of-way permit.
   (B)   Unless waived by the Town, a person designated by the permittee shall
provide the Town a certificate of completion stating the date for the work
performed (Including restoration), identifying the installer, the location at
which the work was performed, and certifying that work was completed according
to the requirements of the Town. If a utility or contractor has one outstanding
certificate, the Town reserves the right to withhold issuing future permits
until the certificates are submitted. The Town shall conduct an inspection
before the as-builts are submitted.
   (C)   If necessary, the permittee shall submit "as built" drawings, maps,
and/or underground structure maintenance drawings after construction. The Town
can require a facility to be removed at the owner's expense from a right-of-way
if it is in a nonpermitted location.
   (D)   Extension required. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-
way after the completion date specified on the permit, unless the person
obtains an extension prior to the completion date or obtains a new permit.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.06 EMERGENCY REPAIR.
   In the event of any emergency in which a main, conduit or utility in or
under any street breaks, bursts or otherwise is in such condition as to
immediately endanger the property, life, health or safety of any individual,
the person owning or controlling such main, conduit or utility, without first
applying for and obtaining a right-of-way permit hereunder, shall immediately
take proper emergency measures to cure or remedy the dangerous conditions for
the protection of property, life, health and safety of individuals. The
applicant shall notify the Town as soon as possible of the event. Within two
business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the applicant shall apply
for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the
rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with the
permit requirements for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If a
utility is damaged and repaired within the excavation made by the primary
permit holder, an additional permit is not required; however, notification to
the Town is still required. (Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.07 WARRANTY.
   (A)   All excavations will have to be guaranteed from deterioration for a
period of one year. If patch failure occurs, as determined by the Town, repair
will be made as per specified by the Town. After the repair, the excavation
shall be guaranteed for an additional one-year period.
   (B)   From the issued date of the certificate of completion to one year, the
applicant will be responsible for all unsatisfactory conditions of subsidence,
asphalt repairs, poor drainage, vegetation and Town-owned utilities that have
been disturbed, cut into or patched as a result of the subject work. Upon the
one year anniversary date, the applicant will be notified, and the financial
guarantee returned.
   (C)   Release of financial guarantee. No release of the financial guarantee
shall take place without the prior approval of the Town and after a physical
inspection by the Town. (Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
§ 97.08 SITE CONDITIONS AND PERMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The permittee is responsible and shall bear all costs associated with
maintaining and restoring the site conditions. (Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-15-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES GENERALLY
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
      
113.   SHORT-TERM RENTAL OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES GENERALLY
Section:
   
110.01   Purpose; authority; general provisions
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License required; documentation; fees
   
110.04   License display; possession
   
110.05   Transfer of ownership; fee
   
110.06   Transfer of location; fee
   
110.07   Register of licenses
   
110.08   License and permit duration; renewal
   
110.09   Suspension and revocation
   
110.10   Emergency suspension
§ 110.01 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The purpose of this chapter of licensing and regulating certain types of
business held within the town is to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of those receiving goods and services, and to provide uniform
regulations for the providers of goods and services. The provisions of this
chapter are pursuant to authority granted cities and towns under W. S. 15-1-103
(a)(xiii). The provisions of this chapter govern every occupation or business
specified except where ordinances of the town provide more specific regulations
and requirements for the business or activity for which a license or permit is
issued. The Mayor or Town Council may suspend or revoke a license or permit
when the licensee or permittee commits one or more of the following:
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of any ordinance provision relating to health and safety.
   (C)   Securing any license or permit by fraud or misrepresentation, to
specifically include false or incorrect information on the license or permit
application form.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   LICENSE or PERMIT means the authority granted by the town to a person to
engage in a specific business for which a license or permit is required. Each
license issued is signed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; DOCUMENTATION; FEES.
   (A)   Each person required to obtain a license or permit under provisions of
this chapter shall obtain and submit an application to Town Clerk. The
applicant must provide all information requested on the form for each
particular type of license or permit sought, including the applicant's name,
business's name, location or street address where the business will be
conducted. All applications must be signed by the applicant as being true and
correct.
   (B)   No business applicant shall be licensed or permitted to conduct
business from any location unless the same is in compliance with the provisions
of the town's zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Supporting or additional documentation such as bonds or insurance may
be required prior to issuance of any license or permit. The Town Clerk must
approve all bonds or proof of insurance if required as a condition to the
issuance of a license or permit.
   (D)   The initial and renewal fee for each license and permit shall be set
forth for that particular type of business. No license or permit will be issued
until the fee has been paid, and no license will be granted for an amount less
than the stipulated fee unless otherwise specified in this chapter or by
another ordinance.
   (E)   No fee will be refunded once the license or permit is issued.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.04 LICENSE DISPLAY; POSSESSION.
   The holder of every business license issued under this chapter, or by
another ordinance of the town, shall at all times have the license prominently
displayed in the business.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.05 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; FEE.
   (A)   Licenses are personal privilege of the person to whom they are issued
but may be transferred to another individual by completing an application
provided by the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk will require written proof of the
reassignment. All transfer of ownership applications must be filed within 30
days of the sale or reassignment of the business.
   (B)   A fee of $15 will be assessed for each transfer of ownership
application filed. Upon approval of the transfer application, a new license
will be issued to be effective for the balance of the existing licensing term.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.06 TRANSFER OF LOCATION; FEE.
   Each business license issued entitles the licensee to operate only in the
location described in the license. Should any licensee desire to move to a
different location, a formal request for such change shall be made on forms
provided by the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.07 REGISTER OF LICENSES.
   The Town Clerk shall maintain a license register, reflecting the name of
each licensee, the address at which such business is conducted, the date of
issuance, the type of license, the fee paid and the duration of the license.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.08 LICENSE AND PERMIT DURATION; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of
December 31. The license fee shall be due on January 1 of each year and must be
paid within 30 days. No license shall be issued for any period of time longer
than one year.
   (B)   The license fee on any business, except on retail or limited liquor
licenses, beginning operations after the date of June 30 of every year, shall
pay one-half of the regular license fee.
   (C)   Any person who continues to operate a business without renewing a
license or securing a new license as required to continue operation will be
deemed to be operating without a license in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   In the event the Mayor or Town Council deems a license should be suspended
or revoked, the following procedures shall be followed:
   (A)   The licensee will be notified, in writing, by certified mail, by the
Town Clerk at least seven days prior to the action contemplated, stating the
reason therefor.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice, the licensee may request a hearing. The
request must be in writing and received by the Town Clerk within seven days of
receipt of the notice. Failure on the part of the licensee to request a hearing
in writing within the specified time shall be deemed a waiver of the licensee's
right to request a hearing.
   (C)   If a hearing is requested, the licensee and other interested parties
may be in attendance to present any information relative to the proposed
suspension or revocation of the license. The hearing, deliberations, and
notifications of the decision regarding the suspension or revocation will be
conducted pursuant to the Wyoming Administration Procedure Act, W. S. 16-3-101
et seq. The Town Clerk will notify the licensee in writing, by certified mail,
of the governing body's decision as the result of the hearing.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 110.10 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   If the governing body finds that cause exists for an immediate suspension or
revocation of a license, an order for immediate suspension may be entered. The
licensee, upon notice of suspension or revocation, may request a hearing before
the governing body and the hearing will be conducted in the matter prescribed
under §
110.09, "Suspension and Revocation"' of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Sections:
   
111.01   Introductions
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Adoption of state alcoholic beverage laws
   
111.04   Hours of sale
   
111.05   Location, regulations and restrictions as to places of sale
   
111.06   Prohibited acts
   
111.07   Numbers, application, issuance and regulations of licenses and
licensees
   
111.08   Publication of notice of application for license; grant or denial;
renewal preferences; appeals
   
111.09   License contents, signatures and display
   
111.10   Term
   
111.11   Transfer of annual license
   
111.12   Cost of filing an application
   
111.13   License fees
   
111.14   Suspension or revocation of license
   
111.15   Emergency suspension
§ 111.01 INTRODUCTION.
   This chapter describes the powers of the governing body to issue and
regulate the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages as provided by W.S.
Title 12, "Alcoholic Beverages".
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirituous or fermented fluid, substance, or compound,
other than malt beverage intended for beverage purpose which contains at least
one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume. As used in this section
"beverage" does not include liquid filled candies containing less than six and
one-quarter percent of alcohol by volume.
   BUILDING. A roofed and walled structure built or set in place for permanent
use.
   COMMISSION. The Wyoming Liquor Division within the Department of revenue
created under W.S. § 12-2-106.
   RESTAURANT. Space in a building maintained, advertised and held out to the
public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for on premises consumption and where the primary source of revenue
from the operation is from the sale of food and not from the sale of alcoholic
or malt beverages. The building shall have a dining room or rooms, a kitchen
and the number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing, cooking and
serving of meals in order to satisfy the licensing authority that the space is
intended for use as a full service restaurant. "Full-service restaurant" means
a restaurant at which waiters or waitresses deliver food and drink offered from
a printed menu to patrons at tables or booths. The service of only fry orders
or such food and victuals as sandwiches, hamburgers or salads shall not be
deemed as a restaurant for the purpose of this section.
   ROOM. An enclosed and partitioned space within a building large enough for a
person to enter but not a cabinet. Partitions may contain windows and doorways,
but any partition shall extend from floor to ceiling.
   SELL OR SALE. Offering for sale, trafficking in, bartering, delivering, or
dispensing and pouring for value, exchanging for goods, services, or patronage,
or and exchange in anyway other than purely gratuitously. Every delivery of an
alcoholic or malt beverage made otherwise than by gift constitutes a "sale".
   WHOLESALER. Any person, except the commission, who sells any alcoholic or
malt beverage to a retailer for resale.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.03 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LAWS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code or other Town ordinances, the sale
of alcoholic and malt liquors in the town shall be in compliance with W. S.
Title 12, "Alcoholic Beverages", as amended, and the same shall apply to the
town. A copy of such laws and of any subsequent laws and amendments thereto
shall be kept on file on the office of the Town Clerk, and the same are made a
part of this section by this reference, as though incorporated herein at
length.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.04 HOURS OF SALE.
   All licensees may open at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and shall close and cease
the sale of both alcoholic and malt beverages promptly at the hour of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day. In addition, licensees shall clear the
licensed building of all persons other than employees by two thirty o'clock (2:
30) A.M.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.05 LOCATION, REGULATION AND RESTRICTIONS AS TO PLACE OF SALE.
   The principal place in which alcoholic liquor and malt beverages are sold
under a license shall be located in the licensed building upon the premises for
which the license is issued. Alcoholic beverages secured in the licensed
building by a server may be served only in the building and in an immediately
adjacent fenced or enclosed area as approved by the town. This adjacent area
shall not be in another building and shall be located on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Minors:
      (1)   Serve or deliver; allow to enter or remain:
         (a)   No holder of a license, his servant or employee, shall sell,
give or deliver alcoholic or malt beverages to any person under the age of 21
years of age or permit any person under 21 years of age to enter or remain in
the place in which alcoholic or malt beverages are sold.
         (b)   Any person who sells, furnishes, gives or causes to be sold,
furnished or given away any alcoholic or malt beverage to any person under the
age of 21 years of age, who is not his or her legal ward, medical patient or
member of his or her own immediate family, is guilty of a misdemeanor. This
subsection does not apply to sales by the commission or a wholesaler to a
licensee, as defined under W. S. Title 12.
      (2)   Purchase; possession; under the influence:
         (a)   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection, "under the
influence" shall mean that alcohol is present in the system and is detectable
by the smell of alcohol upon the breath of the individual or by blood alcohol
or Breathalyzer test.
         (b)   Prohibited: No person under the age of 21 shall purchase,
attempt to purchase, or have any alcoholic or malt beverage in his or her
possession or shall be under the influence of alcoholic or malt beverages.
         (c)   False identification: No person under the age of 21 shall
falsify any identification or use any false identification in order to obtain
alcoholic or malt beverages.
         (d)   Exceptions:
            1.   Retail food service. No person under the age of 21 shall enter
or remain in any establishment which sells alcoholic or malt beverages, except
a person under the age of 21 years may enter and remain in any room in which
regular retail food service is conducted and which room adjoins a licensed
room:
            2.   Dining room or waiting area within dispensing room:
               a.   Definitions. As used in this subsection, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
                  i.   ADULT. A person over the age of 21 who is the parent or
legal guardian of the person under the age of 21.
                  ii.   DINING ROOM. A specifically delineated area which has
been submitted with the licensee's application and has been approved by the
governing body.
               b.   Presence Allowed. This subsection does not apply to a
person under the age of 21 years if the underage person is in a dining room or
waiting area within the dispensing room with an adult not later than ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
               c.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to possession of
alcoholic or malt beverages by a person under the age of 21 years:
                  i.   When making a delivery of alcoholic beverages pursuant
to his or her employment.
                  ii.   Who is serving alcoholic or malt beverages or otherwise
working in a dispensing room pursuant to his or her employment, if the person
is at least 18 years of age.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.07 NUMBERS, APPLICATION, ISSUANCE AND REGULATIONS OF LICENSES AND
LICENSEES.
   (A)   The qualifications, restrictions, limitations and numbers of licenses
and permits shall be governed by W. S. Title 12, as amended, and by the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All applications for a license, permit, renewal, or transfer shall be
made to the governing body and shall be made upon the appropriate form prepared
by the State of Wyoming and furnished to the town. All applications shall be
filed in the Office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.08 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; GRANT OR DENIAL;
RENEWAL PREFERENCES; APPEALS.
   When an application for a liquor license is made to the Town Clerk as is
required by Wyoming Statutes, the procedures as to publication of notice, the
granting or denial of such license, renewal preferences and the right of appeal
shall be in accordance with W. S. Title 12.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.09 LICENSE CONTENTS, SIGNATURES AND DISPLAY.
   Licenses as issued under this chapter shall be in the form and content as
prepared and furnished by the State. Each license issued by the town shall be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk. Each license shall show the
name of the licensee; a description of the place in which alcoholic or malt
beverages shall be sold; the date of issuance; the amount of the fee, and that
the same has been paid. Each licensee shall display his or her license in a
conspicuous place in the licensed room or place of business.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.10 TERMS.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license is good for one year, unless sooner
revoked or transferred. Except as provided herein, no license shall be
transferred or sold, nor shall it be used for any place not described in the
license at the time of issuance.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.11 TRANSFER OF ANNUAL LICENSE.
   After public hearing and with the approval of the licensing authority, a
license or permit may be transferred to or renewed on different premises on the
same basis as the original application. An additional nonrefundable license fee
of not more than $100.00 is required for the remaining term. The transfer
application shall be accompanied with an amount sufficient to cover the cost of
publishing the required statutory notice. A transferred license or permit shall
expire on the same date as the original license or permit.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.12 COST OF FILING AN APPLICATION.
   Each application for a license authorized by this chapter, at the time of
filing such application, shall pay to the Town Clerk the required application
fees, an amount sufficient to cover the cost of publishing the required
statutory notice.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.13 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Retail License. Allows sales of alcoholic liquor and malt beverages
for consumption on premise, off premise, or both. Licenses available are based
upon a population formula. W.S. § 12-4-201. Fee $1500.00
   (B)   Restaurant License. Allows service bar dispensing of alcoholic liquor
and malt beverages to patrons seated in dining areas of full-service
restaurants. Alcohol sales cannot exceed 40% of gross sales. No consumption of
alcohol can take place in the licensed room. W.S. § 12-4-407. Fee $1500.00
   (C)   Bar & Grill License. Allows sales of alcoholic liquor and malt
beverages for on premise consumption. Establishment must have a full-service
restaurant to qualify. Same restrictions as the restaurant license but allows a
bar/lounge. W.S. § 14-4-413. Fee $1500.00
   (D)   24 Hour Catering Permit. Allows a retail & resort licensee to sell
alcoholic and malt beverages for on premise consumption at another location.
Issuance is limited to no more than 36 times per license term year in any one
location. W.S. § 12-4-502(b). Fee $10.00
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to any other penalty which may be imposed pursuant to the
provision of this code or state law, the violation of any provision of this
chapter by any licensee may be sufficient cause for the suspension or
revocation of the license by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
§ 111.15 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   If the governing body finds that cause exist for an immediate suspension or
revocation of a license or permit, an order for immediate suspension may be
entered. The licensee or permittee, upon notice of suspension or revocation,
may request a hearing before the governing body and the hearing will be
conducted in the manner prescribed under §
111.15, "Suspension And Revocation Of License", of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 9-16-2020)
CHAPTER 112: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
Section:
   
112.01   Registration Required, Exceptions, Registration
   
112.02   Application And Fee
   
112.03   Terms Of Registration; Initial And Renewal Fees; Expired Registration
   
112.04   Insurance Required
   
112.05   Notification Of Place Of Business
   
112.06   Unlawful Use Of Name Of Registered Person
   
112.07   Grounds And Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation Of Registration;
Effects Thereof
   
112.08   Penalty For Working Without Being Registered, Having A Suspended Or
Revoked Registration And For Not Having Required Insurance
§ 112.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS, REGISTRATION.
   (A)    Limited contractors, roofers, concrete/masonry contractors, asphalt/
chip sealing contractors, sign contractors, fencing contractors, handyman, lawn
sprinkler/landscaping/snow removal contractors, and excavators shall be
registered the same as general contractors. Limited contractors are required to
carry and provide proof of liability insurance as described in §
112.04. Any person mowing lawns who is eighteen (18) years or younger, does not
need a limited contractor’s registration.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, install,
enlarge, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish do plumbing,
mechanical or electrical work in or on any building or structure by the Town
unless being registered for the particular contracting category under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   An owner, including landlords, without being required to be registered
pursuant to this chapter, may be granted building permits to construct,
install, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert, demolish, do plumbing
or mechanical work in, on or for a single or multifamily dwelling with a
private garage and private accessory building all on the same premises. No
owner shall be granted more than one permit in any two-year period for the
construction of a single-family dwelling. Where the owner is granted such
permit, all elements shall be inspected and shall comply fully with the current
building codes as herein adopted. Any subcontractor used by the owner shall be
registered.
   (D)   Limited contractors, roofers, concrete/masonry contractors, asphalt/
chip sealing contractors, sign contractors, fencing contractors, handyman, lawn
sprinkler/landscaping/snow removal contractors, and excavators shall be
registered the same as general contractors; however, limited contractors are
not required to carry liability insurance in order to be registered with the
Town. Any person mowing lawns who is 18 years or younger, does not need a
limited contractor's registration.
   (E)   Building permits for construction projects are required to be obtained
and paid for prior to work being started. The registered contractor shall
obtain the permit unless the homeowner is performing his own work. The
registrant with his signature shall acknowledge that they will comply with all
current codes, including building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire, and
other construction codes, and this Code, secure building permits, maintain on
site an approved set of building plans and call for inspections as required by
this Code. Failure to call for inspections may result in revocation of the Town
contractor's registration. A permit checklist, if issued, must be displayed in
viable area during construction.
(Ord. 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021; Ord. 2022-13, passed 10-19-2022)
§ 112.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   Any person, corporation or other legal entity desiring to do work within the
Town as a general contractor, limited contractor, plumbing/HVAC contractor or
electrical contractor shall complete and submit five days prior to beginning
any work within the Town, a written application for contractor’s licensing, the
required registration fee, proof of insurance, and any other documentation
required. The registration application shall be $100.00 for general
contractors, plumbing/HVAC contractors, and electrical contractors; $25.00 for
limited contractors. The registration application fee shall accompany the
application. After receipt of written application for registration, the Town
shall issue a contractor registration card upon a determination that the
applicant’s application is complete and that all required documentation,
registration fees and proof of insurance, if required, have been received.
   (A)   General contractor's registration. A General contractor registration
shall be required of persons engaged in general construction contracting
business (building, residential, commercial, construction). Construction
contracting shall include the erection, construction, assembling, enlarging,
structurally altering, moving, removing demolishing, and doing of plumbing or
mechanical work on any project, including supervision of such.
   (B)   Limited contractor's registration. Limited contractor's registration
shall be required of persons engaged in limited construction work of any kind
including such work roofers, fencing contractors, handyman, concrete/masonry
contractors, excavator's, sign contractors, fencing contractors, and lawn
sprinkler/landscaping/snow removal contractors.
   (C)   Plumbing/HVAC contractor's registration. Any person desiring to work
within the Town as a plumbing/HVAC contractor shall complete a written
application for plumbing/HVAC contractor registration and submit the fee.
   (D)   Electrical contractor's registration. Any person desiring to work
within the Town as an electrical contractor shall complete a written
application for electrical contractor registration, State of Wyoming license
required, and submit the fee, and copy of the master electrician's license.
Every apprentice and journeymen electrician shall work under the control and
supervision of the master electrician.
(Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021; Ord. 2022-13, passed 10-19-2022)
§ 112.03 TERMS OF REGISTRATION; INITIAL AND RENEWAL FEES; EXPIRED REGISTRATION.
   All registrations required herein and issued by the Town Administrative
Staff shall be for the calendar year and shall expire on December 31 of the
year in which they are issued. The initial application fee shall be $100.00 for
general contractors, plumbing/HVAC contractors, and electrical contractors, and
$25.00 for limited contractors. Every registered contractor in good standing
may have their registration renewed annually upon payment of the appropriate
fee. Renewal fees shall be $100.00 for general contractors, plumbing/HVAC
contractors, and electrical contractors, and $25.00 for limited contractors.
Registrations only need to be renewed in the following calendar year if the
contractor will be working in the Town in the next calendar year, otherwise a
new registration can be applied for again at any time pursuant to section §
112.02. A contractor found working without a current registration shall cease
activities and shall be subject to penalties under section §
112.08. Work will not resume until contractor completes a new application, pays
any penalties and the application fee, and is issued a new registration number
pursuant to section §
112.02.
(Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 112.04 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No registration shall be issued to any contractor until said
contractor has filed with the Administrative Office a certificate of liability
insurance insuring the contractor, his agent, employees and representatives, or
anyone under the registrant’s supervision, for the following insurance coverage
while engaged in any activity or work pursuant to contractor’s registration.
   (B)   All applicants required to carry liability insurance shall, at the
time of making application, provide evidence of liability insurance in a
minimum amount of $100,000.00 property damage; $100,000.00 bodily injury, and
an aggregate of $300,000.00 per occurrence and shall keep insurance in full
force and effect.
   (C)   All registered contractors required to carry liability insurance shall
require their insurer to notify the Administrative Office within ten calendar
days of nonpayment of insurance premiums and within 30 calendar days of the
effective date of a change in the registered contractor's insurance and/or a
registrant's notification of cancellation or non-renewal of the insurance, in
whole or in part. All registered contractors required to carry liability
insurance shall be responsible for filing a current certificate of insurance
with the Administrative Office, and the Town shall not be responsible for
notifying registered contractors of impending expiration of insurance coverage.
(Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021; Ord. 2022-13, passed 10-19-2022)
§ 112.05 NOTIFICATION OF PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Every person registered under this chapter shall notify the Administrative
Office of the address of his place of business and the name under which such
business is carried on and shall give immediate notice to the Administrative
Office of change in either.
(Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 112.06 UNLAWFUL USE OF NAME OF REGISTERED PERSON.
   No person who is registered as a contractor shall allow his name/business to
be used by another person either for the purpose of obtaining permits or for
doing business or work under this registration. (Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-
2021)
§ 112.07 GROUNDS AND PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION;
EFFECTS THEREOF.
   (A)   Grounds. The Town may suspend, revoke any registration issued under
the provisions of this chapter when the registered contractor or an employee of
the registered contractor commits one or more of the following acts or
omission.
      (1)   Improperly obtaining a registration and/or a building permit
through nondisclosure, misstatement, or misrepresentation of a material fact.
      (2)   Performing a form of construction contracting work for which they
are not registered.
      (3)   Accepting and performing work clearly beyond their level of
proficiency and skill, which work does not meet code requirements.
      (4)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Combining or conspiring with any unregistered person to evade the
provisions of this chapter by permitting one's registration to be used by such
person.
      (6)   Acting as agent, partner, associate or in any other capacity with
any unregistered person, to evade the provisions of this chapter; and
      (7)   Violating any provisions of the Town's ordinances pertaining to
construction activities, including but not limited to failure to obtain permits
in a timely manner.
   (B)   Procedure: When the building inspector believes that a contractor's
registration should be suspended or revoked based on a violation of one or more
of the items listed in subsection A of this section, the building inspector
shall notify the registered contractor that the building inspector will
recommend to the Contractor Registration Board that the registration be
suspended or revoked. The building inspector shall give written notice ether in
person and by certified mail to the registered contractor of the facts and
circumstances giving rise to the recommendation, including reference to the
applicable sections of this Code which the registered contractor has violated.
The notice shall state the requirement that the registered contractor shall
have ten days to request a hearing before the Contractor Registration Board,
and that if the registered contractor fails to request such a hearing, the Town
Council shall act on the building inspector's recommendation at its next
meeting. The notice shall state the place and time of the meeting where the
Contractor Registration Board will hear the building inspector's
recommendation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of notice, the registered contractor may request a
hearing before the Contracting Registration Board. Such request shall be made
in writing to the Contracting Registration Board within ten days of receipt of
the notice. Failure by the registered contractor to request the hearing shall
be deemed a waiver of any right to a hearing and the order of suspension or
revocation shall become final.
      (2)   At such hearing, the registered contractor shall be given an
opportunity to show compliance with all lawful requirements for the retention
of the registration. The registered contractor shall be given the opportunity
to present testimony, oral and/or written, and shall have the right to cross
examination. All testimony shall be under oath. The Contracting Registration
Board shall have the power to administer oaths, issue subpoenas and compel the
attendance of witnesses. The decision of the Contracting Registration Board
shall be based upon the evidence produced at the hearing and made a part of the
record thereof. The hearing shall be conducted in compliance with the
procedures promulgated in accordance with the Wyoming Administrative Procedures
Act.
   (C)   Effects:
      (1)   A person whose registration has been revoked or suspended shall not
be entitled to file a new application by the establishment of a new legal
entity, or otherwise, during the length of such revocation or suspension.
      (2)   In addition to the revocation or suspension of a registration as
provided in this chapter, any person who violates any provision of this
chapter, or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and should be punished by fine of up to $750.00 dollars, to which
shall be added court cost up to the maximum allowed by law.
(Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 112.08 PENALTY FOR WORKING WITHOUT BEING REGISTERED, HAVING A SUSPENDED OR
REVOKED REGISTRATION AND FOR NOT HAVING REQUIRED INSURANCE.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined no more than $750.00 for each such offense; each day during
which violations occur shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord, 2021-20, passed 12-15-2021)
CHAPTER 113: SHORT-TERM RENTAL OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS
Section:
   
113.01   Intent and Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Requirements and Prohibitions
   
113.04   Standards
   
113.05   Issuance
   
113.06   Violation; Infraction; Penalty
   
113.07   Fraud and Misrepresentation
§ 113.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish standards,
guidelines, and procedures by which the owners of Short-term Rental Units shall
comply to ensure that the essential character of the Town is maintained. Such
owners have the responsibility to properly communicate to their guests the
laws, standards, rules, and regulations that must be followed as established by
the Town, the home-owners associations, Lincoln County, and the State of
Wyoming. This will protect the residents of our Town while providing Short-term
Rental patrons with a safe and enjoyable experience during their visit.
(Ord. 2021-24, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   HOSTED SHORT-TERM RENTAL(S). A lot with a single-family residence; a portion
of which may be rented out after obtaining a short-term rental permit. The
owner of the property permanently resides in one portion of the single-family
residential unit and is present during the time in which renters are renting
another portion of the single-family residential unit. Examples of an owner-
occupied single-family residence include renting a portion of the owner's
dwelling (room rental) or rental of a basement with separate entry/access.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. An area property manager, owner, or agent of the
owner, who within one hour can respond to questions or concerns from short-term
rental guests, residents of the surrounding neighborhood, or representatives of
the Town.
   NON-HOSTED SHORT-TERM RENTAL(S). A lot with a single-family residence which
may be rented out after obtaining a short-term rental permit. The owner of the
property is not present at the single-family residential unit during the time
in which renters are renting the single-family residential unit.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL(S). The rental of all or any portion of a residential
dwelling unit for a period less than one calendar month. A calendar month is
the period from a day of one month to the corresponding day of the next month
if such exists; or if not, to the last day of the next month. A calendar month
shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day (as from
January 4 to February 3 or from January 31 to February 29).
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT(S). A property used for short-term rental.
   (B)   Words or phrases in this Chapter necessitating a definition shall be
defined pursuant to the Town Zoning Regulations, as amended.
(Ord. 2021-24, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-12-2024; Ord. 2024-19,
passed 12-10-2024)
§ 113.03 REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a short-term rental unit in the Town without
first obtaining a short-term rental permit ("Permit") in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   Multiple bookings during the same period for a short-term rental unit
are not allowed.
   (C)   Short-term rentals are not permitted outdoors, in tents, campers,
recreational vehicles, attached or unattached accessory structures (e.g.,
sheds, garages).
   (D)   Camping, outdoor sleeping, or occupancy of any camper or recreational
vehicle on the property by short-term rental guests while the licensed premises
is being used as a short-term rental or hosted short-term rental is prohibited.
   (E)   Specifically, the local representative shall be solely responsible for
ensuring short-term rental guests are made aware of all Town notices, alerts,
and warnings potentially affecting the short-term rental guest's stay.
(Ord. 2021-24, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-12-2024; Ord. 2024-19,
passed 12-10-2024)
§ 113.04 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permit.
      (1)   A Short-term Rental Permit Application must be submitted and
approved by the Town before a residential dwelling unit can be used for Short-
term Rentals. Any persons currently operating a Short-term Rental, as defined
herein, may continue to do so, but must submit a Permit Application and
otherwise come into compliance with this Chapter within 90 days of its
enactment.
      (2)   Permit Applications are available at Town Hall and must be filled
out and approved by Town Administrative Staff.
      (3)   A Permit Application fee for each Short-term Rental Unit being
permitted is required. An annual permit renewal fee is also required. No
refunds shall be given for initial, or renewal fees paid. Fees will be set by
resolution and reviewed annually.
      (4)   Each Permit will be assigned a unique permit number.
      (5)   A Permit holder shall be responsible for providing notice to the
Town within 10 business days of any changes to the information included in a
Short-term Rental Application.
      (6)   Permits are nontransferable, except that upon death of a Permit
holder, the Permit may be transferred to a family member who holds an interest
in title to the Short-term Rental Unit at issue.
      (7)   The Permit holder must maintain a record of each renter of the
Short-term Rental Unit for five (5) years, including the name and contact
information for the renter and the time(s) and date(s) of the rental. This
information shall be made available to the Town upon court order.
   (B)   Permit renewal.
      (1)   Permits must be renewed annually. Permits must be renewed ten
business days prior to the last day of December.
      (2)   Permit renewal applications shall be filed annually with the Town
Administrative Department. The Town may, for good cause, as defined herein,
refuse to renew a Permit.
      (3)   The Permit is valid for one calendar year, or portion thereof.
Renewal of the Permit requires the submission of a complete Permit renewal
application and designated fee. If a complete renewal application and
applicable fees have not been received by the Town on the annual renewal date
(see §
113.04(C) below), the Short-term Rental Unit shall be conclusively presumed to
be discontinued and the Town shall revoke the Short-term Rental Permit without
further notice required.
      (4)   Permit renewal applications must comply with this Chapter.
   (C)   Permit expiration.
      (1)   All Permits expire on the last day of December each year and must
be renewed ten business days prior to expiration. If a Permit is allowed to
expire, the Permit holder will be required to pay a late fee in addition to the
Permit renewal fee. Any Permit not renewed by January 15 will be deemed
revoked. Any person who continues to operate a Short-term Rental without a
Permit shall be operating a Short-term Rental in violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2021-24, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE.
   The issuance of a short-term rental permit shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Notice to neighbors within 300 feet of lot boundary. Permit holders
must provide a list of mailing addresses for the owners of neighboring parcels
within 300 feet of the lot boundaries of the short-term rental unit. This
address list must be provided along with the short-term rental permit
application. The permit holder must also provide his/her name and contact
information, and the name and contact information of a local representative,
living in Star Valley, designated by the permit holder to handle complaints or
correspondence regarding the short-term rental unit. The permit holder shall
notify the Town within ten business days if the contact information changes.
The Town will complete mailing of the notice to neighbors to residents
identified on the provided mailing list.
   (B)   Advertising signs prohibited. Short-term rentals may not be advertised
with physical signage within Town Limits.
   (C)   Lodging and sales taxes. Short-term rental units are classified as
lodging facilities by the State of Wyoming. Permit holders are responsible for
paying all lodging and sales taxes required by Wyoming law.
   (D)   Annual safety inspection required. All short-term rentals must pass an
annual safety inspection, proof of which must be submitted with an initial or
renewal application. This inspection can be completed by the Permit holder, a
local representative of the permit holder, or by a licensed Building/Housing
inspector (the short-term rental checklist is included with the application
packet).
   (E)   Parking requirements. All short-term rental units must provide on-site
parking spaces. On-site parking spaces consist of established driveways or
garages at the short-term rental unit. Short-term rental guest vehicles are not
allowed to be parked on lawns or in other areas of the short-term rental unit
property in the event that existing on-site parking spaces are full. No
vehicles are allowed to be parked on Town streets or Town rights-of-way.
   (F)   Solid waste collection requirements. All permit holders must provide
solid waste collection container(s) for all time periods that the residential
dwelling unit is offered for short-term rental. All trash must be securely
stored to prevent it from attracting wildlife. The permit holder or permit
holder's representative shall arrange for trash pickup on the designated day
and for placing and returning the waste container(s) to ensure that they do not
hinder Town road maintenance. Solid waste storage and disposal shall not become
a nuisance. Failure to maintain solid waste collection service in accordance
with this paragraph shall constitute a violation pursuant to section § 113.06
of this chapter.
   (G)   Exterior identification signage and other signage requirements.
      (1)   Identification of short-term rental unit signage. Each short-term
rental unit shall be equipped with one exterior identification sign of at least
8½" x 11" in size, but not exceeding 12" x 24" in size (see example figures).
No other signs promoting or identifying the short-term rental unit shall be
permitted. The required exterior Identification Sign shall be attached to the
home in a clearly visible location and shall display all the following
information in lettering of sufficient size to be easily legible:
         (a)   "24/7 Agent" and a telephone number at which the 24/7 agent may
be reached on a twenty-four (24) hour basis; and
         (b)   The number of bedrooms at the property; and
         (c)   The number of individuals the property sleeps; and
         (d)    The telephone number of the Town's Special Municipal Officer.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2388.png]
 
      ( 2)    Additional seasonal signage for short-term rental unit bordering
any golf course. Any short-term rental unit with a property line bordering a
golf course within the Town shall from May 1 through November 1 install "Fee
for Play Only/Private Property/No Trespassing" signs at the property line/golf
course boundary. It is the responsibility of the owner/permit holder to ensure
seasonal installation of this signage is maintained. These seasonal signs will
be provided by the Town at the point in time that an approved short-term rental
permit is issued.
   (H)   Interior information posting requirements. Permit holders must
prominently display the following information on or adjacent to the front door
inside their short-term rental unit:
      (1)   The unit's short-term rental permit (or copy thereof).
      (2)   The number of individuals the property sleeps.
      (3)   A description or map to indicate the unit's assigned parking.
      (4)   Documentation of the annual safety inspection of the unit.
      (5)   Contact information for the Unit's owner and/or local
representative; and
      (6)   The phone number, pick-up time, and receptacle location for the
Unit's solid waste disposal service.
   (I)   Information packet. An information packet, provided by the Town, of
relevant Town ordinances, rules and regulations that guests are required to
follow shall be available to renters and displayed conspicuously in a common
area of the short-term rental unit.
   (J)   Local representative.
      (1)   Each short-term rental unit shall identify a local representative
including their phone number, who resides within Star Valley Wyoming.
      (2)   The designated local representative may be changed by the permit
holder from time to time throughout the term of the permit. However, to change
the local representative, the permit holder must file a revised permit
application that includes the name, address and telephone number of the new
local representative. Failure to notify the Town of a change in the local
representative constitutes a violation pursuant to section §
113.06 of this chapter.
      (3)   If the Town or Town Special Municipal Officer is not able to
contact the Local Representative in a timely manner more than twice during the
term of the annual permit, this shall be considered a violation pursuant to
section §
113.06 of this chapter.
   (J)   Applicants with a history of previous violations may be barred from
receiving a permit.
(Ord. 2021-24, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2022-15, passed 11-16-2022; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-12-2024; Ord. 2024-19, 12-10-2024)
§ 113.06 VIOLATION; INFRACTION; PENALTY.
   The following conduct shall constitute a violation or infraction for which
the penalties and sanctions specified in this section may be imposed:
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   The rental guests of the short-term rental residential dwelling
unit have created noise, disturbances, or nuisances, in violation of this code,
or have disrupted the peaceful enjoyment of neighbors. Each incident shall be
counted as a separate violation, even within the same day.
      (2)   The short-term rental property owner has failed to comply with the
standards of §§
113.03,
113.04 or
113.05 of this chapter. Each day of non-compliance shall be considered a
separate violation.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Operating without a short-term rental permit.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided, any person who shall commence or
continue to operate a short-term rental for which a valid permit is required by
any provision of this title without first procuring the same shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction.
         (b)   Property owners who are found to be operating a short-term
rental unit without a permit will receive a fine and notice of violation in
writing from the Town. The notice of violation will require that the violator
file an application for a short-term rental permit within fourteen (14) days of
receipt of the violation notice in the event they desire to continue offering
short-term rentals.
         (c)   A property owner who has received a notice of violation for
operating a short-term rental unit without a permit and does not apply for and
receive an approved permit, but subsequently rents to another short-term rental
guest, will be given a citation requiring a mandatory court appearance. (See §
35.01 Bond Schedule and Court Appearances.)
         (d)   If after receipt of a citation requiring a mandatory court
appearance, a short-term rental property owner fails to appear and continues to
rent to a short-term rental guest, the short-term rental property owner will
receive another citation for a mandatory court appearance. Continued non-
compliance by the short-term rental property owner will result in the following
successive actions:
            1.   A summons to appear will be issued by the Lincoln County
Sheriff's Office.
            2.   A bench warrant will be issued.
            3.   The Town will send a cease-and-desist letter to the short-term
rental property owner and the Special Municipal Officer will post a notice of
non-compliance on the short-term rental unit.
            4.   The short-term rental property owner's ability to obtain a
short-term rental permit will be suspended for one year.
      (2)   Any person or entity violating any other provisions of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
the general penalty as provided in § 35.01 Bond Schedule and Court Appearances.
         (a)   Three violations of this chapter within a 12-month period shall
result in revocation of the short-term rental permit.
   (C)   Written notice. The Town shall provide the permit holder with written
notice of any violation of this section that has occurred. If applicable, a
copy of any warning notice shall be sent to the local representative as well as
the owner. First-class mailing by United States Postal Service shall constitute
adequate notice. Email shall also constitute adequate notice, provided the
email is not returned undeliverable within 24 hours of sending. Permit holders
are required and responsible to provide (and update as necessary) the Town with
current email address(es) for the permit holder and Local Representative.
   (D)   Appeal of suspension or revocation. Pursuant to this section, the Town
shall provide the permit holder with a written notice of the permit suspension
or revocation and the reasons, therefore. The permit holder may appeal the
suspension or revocation and seek review of the decision, in which case the
Town Council shall govern the hearing and appeal processes.
   (E)   Application for permit after revocation. A person who has had a short-
term rental permit revoked shall not be permitted to apply for a subsequent
short-term rental permit for a period of one year from the date of revocation.
   (F)   Any listing on a short-term rental website which indicates available
dates for rental, or other advertisement promoting the availability of a short-
term rental property in violation of Town code is prima facie evidence of a
violation and may be grounds for denial or revocation of a permit. Other
evidence of the operation of a residential short-term rental without a valid
permit number may include, but is not limited to: guest testimony, or rental
agreements which reference the dates of a stay when the property was without a
valid permit, filing of a short-term rental complaint by a resident or
neighbor, or receipts or bank statements showing payments to the owner by a
guest.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-12-2024; Ord. 2024-19, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 113.07 FRAUD AND MISREPRESENTATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any permit holder to induce or attempt to induce
any person to rent a short-term rental unit by knowingly misinforming or
misleading such person as to the unit's period of availability, location,
rental rate, or compliance with applicable regulations.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any permit holder to knowingly misinform or mislead
any Town agent or department during the initial permitting process or a permit
renewal, or during any revocation, suspension, or denial process or hearing.
(Ord. 2021-24, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-12-2024; Ord. 2024-19,
passed 12-10-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   ANNEXATION REQUIREMENTS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
Right of Entry for Inspection
   
150.001   Authority to enter
Buildings, Construction and Permit Requirements
   
150.015   Definitions
   
150.016   Effective implementation date
   
150.017   Purpose
   
150.018   Building and construction permits
   
150.019   Action requiring a permit
   
150.020   Building inspections
   
150.021   Building requirements and inspections specific to modular homes and
modular commercial buildings
   
150.022   Building requirements and inspections specific to manufactured/mobile
homes
   
150.023   Town not liable to property owners
Fees and Deposit Schedule
   
150.035   Definitions
   
150.036   Effective implementation date
   
150.037   Fee schedule
   
150.038   Refunds
   
150.039   Miscellaneous fees
   
150.040   Building and construction fines
Building Construction and Site Requirements
   
150.055   Definitions
   
150.056   Effective implementation date
   
150.057   Stop work order
   
150.058   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.059   Wastewater and soil cut permits
   
150.060   Building construction and site requirements
Adoption of Codes
   
150.075   International Building Code
   
150.076   International Residential Code
   
150.077   National Electric Code
   
150.078   International Mechanical Code
   
150.079   International Plumbing Code
   
150.080   International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.081   International Fire Code
   
150.082   International Existing Building Code
RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION
§ 150.001 AUTHORITY TO ENTER.
   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance or
resolution, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there exists an
ordinance or resolution violation in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the town, any authorized officials of the town may, upon
presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon him or
her by ordinance; provided, that except in emergency situations or when consent
of the owner and/or occupant to the inspection has been otherwise obtained, he
or she shall give the owner and/or occupant, if they can be located after
reasonable effort, 24 hours’ written notice of the authorized official’s
intention to inspect. The notice transmitted to the owner and/or occupant shall
state that the property owner has the right to refuse entry and that in the
event such entry is refused, inspection may be made only upon issuance of a
search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event the owner and/or
occupant refuses entry after such request has been made, the official is
empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in
obtaining such entry.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010) (Ord. 2010-07, passed 6-8-2010)
BUILDINGS, CONSTRUCTION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.015 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions adopted in §
154.010 are incorporated herein by reference as if the same were more fully
herein set out.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.005)
§ 150.016 EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION DATE.
   The effective date for implementation of the requirements established by
this chapter is upon adoption of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.010)
§ 150.017 PURPOSE.
   The town adopted a set of building codes and a requirement to obtain a
building permit for new construction, alteration and major repairs in order to
better protect the health, welfare and safety of its residents. For this
reason, the town adopted elements of the International Building Code (IBC), the
International Residential Code (IRC), the International Mechanical Code (IMC),
the International Plumbing Code (IPC), the International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC),
the International Fire Code (IFC) published by the International Code Council
(ICC) and the National Electric Code (NEC) as adopted by the State Department
of Fire Prevention and Electrical Safety, State Fire Marshal. For the same
reason, the town requires the inspection by the town’s certified building
inspector to assure adherence to the adopted codes. See §
150.075 for more specifics on adopted building codes.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.020) (Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 150.018 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   This section establishes the requirements, procedures, regulations and rules
for the construction, alteration or repair of buildings and other structures
(e.g., retaining walls) within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.030)
§ 150.019 ACTION REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   (A)    A building permit application shall be submitted to the Town front
office. The application will be reviewed, approved or disapproved, by the Town.
A building permit will be issued by the Town, if approved.
   (B)   Before construction begins; the approved building permit shall be
posted in a visible location at the job site and remain posted until an
approved final inspection and has been issued.
   (C)   A building construction and alteration permit application shall be
required before any of the following actions are undertaken on a new or
existing building or structure:
      (1)   New construction of a building or other structure that is greater
in footprint area of 200 square feet;
      (2)   New exterior building construction, additions or structural
alterations;
      (3)   Interior alteration or replacement of an existing load bearing
component of a building or structural element;
      (4)   Roof replacement.
         (a)   In kind requires validation of Class A roofing materials. In
kind replacement does not require a permit.
         (b)   Replacement not in kind requires meeting requirements of §
150.060(G).
      (5)   Fences;
      (6)   Additional driveways or expansions of current driveways that
connect to a public roadway;
      (7)   Demolition of structures;
      (8)   Commercial temporary buildings;
      (9)   Decks, more than 30 inches above grade at any point or that are
attached to a dwelling; and/or
      (10)   Retaining walls over four feet in height, measured from the bottom
of the footing, shall be engineered by a state licensed civil or structural
engineer.
   (D)   All commercial buildings or structures shall have all structural
calculations approved by a professional civil or structural engineer licensed
in the state bearing their seal.
   (E)   All commercial building or structures that require a town building
permit will only be issued a permit after approval by the State Department of
Fire Prevention and Electrical Safety, State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.040) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.020 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to inspect the property at any time to
assure that the quality of construction meets requirements and is in
conformance with approved plans. The property owner grants the town that right
by requesting a permit. The approved set of project plans is to be kept at the
project site and made available to persons performing inspections for the town.
The town may conduct inspections with its own staff or may hire consultants to
assist. It is the responsibility of the property owner, applicant, or their
authorized representative to obtain the required inspections and provide
documentation to the town, either through the town or a certified building
inspector hired by the owner, applicant, or authorized representative. If a re-
inspection or special inspection by an outside professional or consultant is
required, it is the property owners, the applicant, or their authorized
representative's responsibility to pay for these inspections.
   (B)   The property owners or contractors representing the property owners
are responsible for notifying the town when certain phases of construction
(identified below) have been completed and are ready for inspection.
      (1)   Footing inspection: after footing is formed and reinforcing in
place but before pouring concrete.
      (2)   Foundation wall inspection: after foundation is formed and
reinforcing in place but before pouring concrete.
      (3)   Sub slab (underground) inspection: any item that requires
inspection and testing prior to concealing.
      (4)   Shear wall nailing inspection: prior to concealing.
      (5)   Roof nailing inspection: prior to concealing.
      (6)   Dry-in inspection: roof, windows and walls.
      (7)   Four-way inspection.
         (a)   Framing, HVAC, plumbing: prior to concealing, but if modular,
prior to setting on foundation.
         (b)   Electrical: copy of inspection signed off by the State
Department of Fire Prevention and Electrical Safety and a copy received by the
town.
         (c)   Insulation inspection: prior to concealing.
         (d)   Sheetrock fastener inspection: prior to concealing.
      (8)   Final inspection: plumbing, mechanical, electrical and life safety
items.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.050) (Ord. 2023-10, 11-14-2023)
§ 150.021 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS AND INSPECTIONS SPECIFIC TO MODULAR HOMES AND
MODULAR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Town requires documented certification from an approved National
Title third-party Inspection Company of Modular Homes and Modular Commercial
Buildings to ensure the standards of construction meet the Town's building
requirements and the applicable Building and Construction Codes identified in
this subchapter, along with the plans required, and pending permit approval.
All third-party inspection fees are the responsibility of the owner(s). These
inspections must be forwarded to the Town prior to delivery. No modular
structure shall be attached to the foundation until the Town has been able to
certify the manufacture's certification, engineering and certified third party
inspector documentation and reports have met all the town's building codes as
defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Modular homes and modular commercial buildings will be permitted the
same as new on-site built structures, and shall have been manufactured no more
than 12 months prior to the date of application and shall be placed on a
permanent continuous foundation.
   (C)   Foundations, decks, fences and accessory buildings are regulated by
the town’s adopted ordinances and applicable codes. Permanent step/stairs used
for ingress/egress shall be anchored to a concrete landing before a certificate
of occupancy is issued.
   (D)   All towing devices, wheels and undercarriage support used solely for
initial transportation of the unit(s) shall be removed from the unit(s) and the
building site within 30 days of delivery to the site.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.060) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.022 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS AND INSPECTIONS FOR MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured/mobile homes will be permitted the same as new on-site
built homes, and shall have been manufactured no more than 12 months prior to
the date of application and shall be placed on a permanent continuous
foundation.
   (B)   Permanent step/stairs used for ingress/egress shall be anchored to a
concrete landing before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
   (C)   No attachments, additions, alterations or modifications to the
exterior walls of a manufactured home is allowed except those approved by the
manufacturer for the specific unit. All other additions, porches, decks, garage
or other add-on attachments must be free standing and self-supporting with no
reliance on the manufactured unit itself.
   (D)   All towing devices, wheels and axles and used solely for initial
transportation of the home shall be removed from the unit(s) and building site
within 30 days of delivery to the site.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.070)
§ 150.023 TOWN NOT LIABLE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Property owners have ultimate responsibility and liability for assuring that
the quality of construction meets their expectations and their requirements.
The town shall not be liable for any damages or injuries resulting from
construction of any buildings or defects therein. Property owners shall be
responsible to accomplish their own quality control or hire services of others
to do inspections or quality control services for them, it is the owner’s
responsibility to assure compliance with the town’s adopted building codes
identified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.080)
FEES AND DEPOSIT SCHEDULE
§ 150.035 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions adopted in §
154.010 are incorporated herein by reference as if the same were more fully
herein set out.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.005)
§ 150.036 EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION DATE.
   The effective date for implementation of the requirements established by
this subchapter is upon adoption of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.010)
§ 150.037 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fees are set by resolution and reviewed annually.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.020) (Ord. 2020-08, 12-16-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-10, 11-14-
2023)
§ 150.038 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Not more than 80% of the paid permit fee shall be refunded when no
work has commenced under a permit issued in accordance with this title. Refunds
or partial refunds of permit fees will not be made after construction has
started. For refunds to be considered, the property owner must make a written
request to the Town. The written request for a refund of permit fees must
include the reason for the request and what has been done to restore the site
to its original condition.
   (B)   The Town will determine the amount of the refund. Parties who desire
to appeal the decision of the refund amount may appeal to the Town Council.
Appeals to the Town Council must be in writing and received by the Town within
ten days of the refund decision. Appeal shall be held at regularly scheduled
Town Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.030) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.039 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
   (A)   Re-inspection fees. A re-inspection fee may be assessed of applicant,
authorized representative or owner for each inspection or re-inspection when
such portion of the work for which inspection is requested is not complete or
when required corrections have not been made. Re-inspection fees may be
assessed when the approved plans are not readily available to the Inspector,
for failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested, or
for deviating from the plans requiring the approval of the Building Official.
   (B)   Third-party fees. Whenever a Town Building Official requires a third-
party review or inspection it shall be paid for by the applicant, authorized
representative, or property owner.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.040) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.040 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION FINES.
   Infractions by owners, contractors, employees of owners or contractors or
agents (such as delivery persons) of owners or contractors engaged in
construction within the town will result in fines. The town will issue written
notifications of violations resulting in fines. The town, at its sole
discretion, may issue warnings instead of citations, as it deems proper. Each
day that an infraction exists after written notice is given to the site
representative or after receipt of written notification by the owner, whichever
is earlier, shall constitute a separate fine. See
Chapter 35, Municipal Court bond schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.050)
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND SITE REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.055 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions adopted in §
154.010 are incorporated herein by reference as if same were more fully herein
set out.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.005)
§ 150.056 EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION DATE.
   The effective date for implementation of the requirements established by
this chapter is upon adoption of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.010)
§ 150.057 STOP WORK ORDER.
   A stop work order may be issued by the Town Building Official, Special
Municipal Officer, Administrator, or Mayor for engaging in construction without
a valid permit or for infractions deemed to seriously impair the use of the
building or structure or to affect the health and safety of its occupants, or
upon the failure of the owner to rectify an infraction within the specific time
interval. Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall,
upon conviction, be punished as provided in the Town bond schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.020) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.058 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No Certificate of Occupancy will be issued until all of the applicable
requirements in §
150.060, have been satisfied and completed and the required documentation is on
file with the Town.
   (A)   Copy of the Certificate of Placement from a licensed Surveyor.
   (B)   Copy of all required building inspections. Inspection Reports must
show as having been passed and be signed by a Certified Building Inspector.
Required inspections can be found in §
150.020 and §
150.021 .
   (C)   Copy of the Wastewater Permit from Lincoln County.
   (D)   Copy of the passed electrical inspection from the State of Wyoming
Department of Fire Prevention and Electrical Safety or verification that a
Wyoming Licensed Electrician completed the work will need to be provided.
   (E)   For Modular homes, a manufacturer's certified document from an
approved national titled third-party inspection company of modular and
commercial buildings.
   (F)   The Water Service Connection fee has been paid in full, and the water
line has been properly installed and passed inspection by the Town.
   (G)   A final driveway and approach inspection has been completed and passed
by the Town.
   (H)   Any fines, fees, or outstanding court costs associated with the
project or property have been paid in full.
   (I)   Any outstanding re-inspections or third-party fees owed to the Town
have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.030) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.059 WASTEWATER AND SOIL CUT PERMITS.
   Receipt for county wastewater and soil cut permit: permit is required before
footings are poured. The final permit shall be on file with the town before a
certificate of occupancy is issued.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.040)
§ 150.060 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   Any new building construction and site development and any exterior
modifications or changes to an existing building or site for which a permit is
issued upon adoption of this subchapter are subject to requirements of
Chapter 150, Buildings,
Chapter 154, Zoning, and if applicable,
Chapters 151 and
152, Annexations and Subdivisions.
   (A)    No building permit will be issued until the plans and specifications
showing the nature, kind, shape, heights, materials and location of same shall
have been submitted to and approved by the Town. Before construction begins,
the approved permit shall be posted in a visible location at the job site and
remain posted until an approved final inspection for the work has been passed
and submitted to the Town, and a Certificate of Occupancy issued to the permit
holder.
   (B)   Any change from the approved plans requires submission of written
request and Town approval prior to proceeding with the change.
   (C)   All new building construction or building modification, change, shall
meet the requirements of the state, the county and the town. The plans and/or
specifications shall display in a prominent location that “all construction
will meet or exceed the requirements of the 2018 edition of the IRC and/or
IBC.”
   (D)   Structure activities that generate noise will be limited to the hours
between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (E)    During the established new building permit construction period, no
part of the building under construction or structures of temporary nature,
trailers, basement, tent, shack, garage or other outbuildings shall be used at
any time as a dwelling or sleeping quarters. No person shall store any personal
belongings other than construction-related materials in the dwelling prior to
receiving a Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Town.
   (F)   The building area, square feet, for all new dwellings, garages and
accessory building structure shall be noted on the plans, along with setbacks,
and any recorded easements.
   (G)   All new structures or roof replacements to existing structures,
roofing materials used shall be applicable to the town’s Building and
Construction Codes identified in Chapter 150, Buildings. Class A roof coverings
are required; wood roof coverings are not allowed. Typical types of Class A
roofing products include, but are not limited to: Asphalt Shingles, Stone-
Coated Metal, Metal, Concrete (light and standard weight), Clay Tile, Synthetic
and Hybrid Composite.
   (H)    All new single-family residences are required to have the footing
form placement certified per specifications or plan to receive the required
Certificate of Placement from a licensed state surveyor prior to concrete
footings being poured.
   (I)   All structural building material shall be new. Recycled material can
be used for aesthetics.
   (J)   Spark arrestors shall be placed on all chimneys except those used
exclusively for venting a propane or natural gas burner.
   (K)   A properly maintained portable toilet shall be in place prior to
beginning excavation work or construction unless prior arrangements have been
approved by the town.
   (L)   Building sites shall be maintained, clean and free of debris. A
vehicle or container dedicated to debris removal shall be maintained on site
all times during construction. Debris shall be disposed by the owner to a
location outside of the town.
   (M)   It is the owner's responsibility to establish all property boundaries
and sign an affidavit stating that all survey markers have been found. Survey
markers shall be located or established at all corners of the property or
parcel and the markers shall be further identified minimum three-foot high post
or lath placed adjacent to the survey markers with the top one foot painted
with a bright color, prior to the construction of the primary residence,
residence additions including decks or outbuildings. The marking of the corners
of the property may be waived if the project leaves the existing structure
footprint(s) unchanged.
   (N)   Construction materials, portable toilet, construction vehicles and
equipment shall be confined to the construction site. Trespassing on or damage
to neighboring properties is not permitted.
   (O)   Location of propane tanks shall be shown on the plot plan, shall
comply with the minimum setback lines, and shall be a minimum of ten feet from
any residential structure.
   (P)   Any changes to the grade of the land on a lot or parcel shall be
maintained as to prevent additional deposits of settlement upon adjacent
streets, adjoining lots or common areas. Driveways must be constructed in a
manner that does not impede existing drainage from the road service. The owner
is responsible for installing any culverts or other device necessary to ensure
the drainage water is not forced to move from the ditches to the roadway
because of the driveway installation.
   (Q)   All retaining walls or facings with a total projection in excess of
four feet shall be designed as structural members keyed into stable foundations
capable of sustaining the design loads, and shall be designed by a civil or
structural engineer registered in the state.
   (R)   Any footings, foundation or excavation left open and unattended for
longer than 30 calendar days shall be secured by a minimum, temporary chain-
link panels six feet in height and secured to prevent entry and fall over.
   (S)   Any building or structure shall be finished or prosecuted to
completion within two years of issuance of an approved building permit.
Completion includes removal of construction debris, final grading of land and
in the case of a new dwelling or accessory building structure, an approved
final building inspection.
   (T)   Permanent steps/stairs used for ingress/egress shall be anchored to a
concrete landing before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
   (U)   If the construction is not completed by the end of the three-year
permit period, a new permit must be applied for and the applicant must comply
with all changes/upgrades to the building ordinance and/or building codes.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.050) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 10-8-2024; Ord. 2024-13, passed
12-10-2024)
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.075 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Buildings and temporary structures built or located within the town
from and upon the adoption of this subchapter shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the International Building Code (IBC), 2021
Edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC), specifically
excluding all appendices. Construction documents shall be designed and sealed
by a Wyoming certified structural or civil engineer.
   (B)   The said code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully herein set out except as follows.
      (1)   Section 101.1 Title. Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town of
Star Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. The last sentence shall be deleted and
replaced with: "The provisions of the Wyoming Department of Environmental
Quality shall apply to private sewage disposal systems".
      (3)   Section 101.4.4 Property maintenance. Shall be deleted in its
entirety.
      (4)   Rescind 150.075 International Building Code (B)(4).
      (5)   Section 102.6 Existing structures. Delete International Property
Maintenance Code in its entirety.
      (6)   Section 103.3 Deputies. The last sentence shall be deleted.
      (7)   Section 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Under "Buildings" paragraph
2, fences, shall be deleted in its entirety.
      (8)   Section 109.2 Schedule of fees. Shall read "For all buildings or
structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be set forth in
the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (9)   Section 109.6 Refunds. Shall read "Refunds are described in the
Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (10)   Section 114.4 Violation penalties. Shall read "Penalties for
infractions are described in §
35.01. Stop work orders as described in §§
150.055 through
150.060".
      (11)   Section 901.7 Rescind
150.075 International Building Code (B)(11).
      (12)   Section 903.2 Where required. A second sentence shall be added and
shall read. "Additionally, all buildings and occupancies with a building area
of five thousand (5,000) square feet or larger on the main living floor shall
be protected by an automatic sprinkler system designed and installed in
accordance with Section 903.3.1 through 903.3.8."
      (13)   Rescind 150.075 International Building Code (B)(13).
      (14)   Section 1301.1.1 Criteria. Delete in its entirety and insert Town
Values.
 
Town Values
Building Location
Climate Zone 7
 
Minimum Insulation R- Values
Minimum Insulation R- Values
Maximum Glazing Factor           0.35 Windows - 0.55 Skylights
Ceilings                         R-60
Walls                            R-30
Floors                           R-38
Basement Walls                   R-19
Slab Perimeter R-Value and Depth R- 10 -48"
Crawl Space Walls                R-13
 
      (15)   Section 1608.2 Ground snow loads. A sentence shall be added to
read. "The flat roof snow load shall be 100 lbs. per sq. ft. for the Town of
Star Valley Ranch, Wyoming."
      (16)   Section 1809.4 Depth and width of footings. The minimum bury depth
of footings below the undisturbed ground surface shall be thirty-six (36)
inches unless a deeper depth is recommended by a geotechnical soil
investigation. The minimum width of footings shall be twelve (12) inches.
      (17)   Section 1805.1.2 Under floor space. The second sentence shall be
revised to read. "Where there is evidence that the seasonal ground water table
rises to the elevation of the crawl space, ground level, that the under-floor
space shall be elevated to a minimum of twelve (12) inches above such elevation
unless an approved drainage system is provided."
      (18)   Section 1809.12 Timber footings. Shall be deleted in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.010) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 10-19-2022; Ord. 2023-05, passed
5-9-2023; Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 150.076 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   All detached one-and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses) not more than three (3) stories in height with separate
means of egress built or located within the town from and upon adoption of this
subchapter shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
International Residential Code (IRC), 2021 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council (ICC). Including appendices, A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H,
K, N and P, and excluding appendices I, J, L, M, O, Q, R, S and T.
   (B)   The said Code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully herein set out except as follows:
      (1)   Section R101.1 Title. Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town
of Star Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section R102.7 Existing structures. The first sentence shall read:
"The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the date of adoption of this
code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is specifically
covered in this code or as is deemed necessary by the building official for the
general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public".
      (3)   Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Under Buildings paragraph
2, fences shall be deleted in its entirety.
      (4)   Section R108.2 Schedule of permit fees. Shall read: "For all
buildings or structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be
paid as set forth in the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.040."
      (5)   Section R108.5 Refunds. Shall read: "Refunds are described in the
Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.040."
      (6)   Section R113.4 Violation penalties. "Penalties for infractions are
described in §
35.01
      (7)   Section R114.1 Notice to owner or the owner's authorized agent. Add
a sentence to read: "Any person who shall continue work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to fine as
described in §
35.01.”
      (8)   R301.1 Design. Add the following: "Residential structures,
regardless of occupancy, five thousand (5,000) square feet or larger on the
main living floor, shall be protected by an approved automatic fire sprinkler
system, installed in accordance with further requirements of the IRC and/or
NFPA 13, 13D or 13R, whichever applies, based on type of occupancy and use of
structure."
      (9)   Section R301.1.3 Engineered Design. At the end of the first
paragraph add: "All new residential structure as defined in the IRC, remodels
involving structural members within the residence, or any construction adding
additional living space as part of the residence, as well as accessory
buildings that require a building permit, shall have all structural
calculations approved by a professional civil or structural engineer licensed
in the State of Wyoming bearing their stamp or seal". Because of the high snow
load requirements and the seismic zone all structural calculations must be done
in accordance with the International Building Code (IBC) 2021 edition. Exterior
structural elements such as decks and porch roofs may, with approval of the
Town, be exempt from engineered plan requirements so long as the plans follow
minimum requirements provided by the town and a licensed Wyoming structural or
civil engineer.
      (10)   Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria:
Roof snow load (per 100 lbs. sq. ft.) 100
Seismic design category               D
Frost line depth (inches)             36
Air freezing index                    2531
Wind speed (mph)                      115
Weathering                            Severe
Winter design temp                    Neg. 30°
Mean annual temp                      38°
Ice barrier underlayment required     Yes
 
      (11)   Section R302.13 Fire protection of floors. Delete in its entirety.
      (12)   Section R309.5 Fire sprinklers. Delete in its entirety.
      (13)   Section R313 Automatic fire sprinkler systems. Delete in its
entirety.
      (14)   Section R403.1.4 Minimum depth. The first sentence shall be
revised to read: "Footings subject to frost shall have a minimum depth of
thirty-six (36) inches from finished grade to the bottom of the footing".
      (15)   Section R403.1.4.1 Frost protection. Remove item number 2 in its
entirety. Change exception 1 to read. "Freestanding accessory structures with
an area of six hundred (600) square feet or less and an eave height of ten (10)
feet or less shall not be required to be protected".
      (16)   Section R403.3 Frost-protected shallow foundations. Shall be
replaced with a sentence reading: "Frost protected shallow foundations are
prohibited".
      (17)   Section N1102.1.2 (R402.1.2) Insulation and fenestration criteria.
Delete Table in its entirety and insert Town Values.
Minimum Insulation R- Values
Minimum Insulation R- Values
Maximum Glazing Factor           0.35 Windows - 0.55 Skylights
Ceilings                         R-60
Walls                            R-30
Floors                           R-38
Basement Walls                   R-19
Slab Perimeter R-Value and Depth R-10 -48"
Crawl Space Walls                R-13
 
      (18)   Section N1102.1 (R402.1) General (Prescriptive). Amend by adding
the following: In addition to these requirements, homes with exterior log walls
shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Logs in exterior walls shall have a minimum dimension of eight
(8) inches and shall have all spiral cracks greater than one-quarter-inch
sealed in an approved manner.
         (b)   Roof insulation shall be a minimum R-49.
         (c)   The primary heating source shall have a minimum AFUE rating of
ninety (90).
         (d)   Fenestration shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the gross
conditioned wall area above grade. To determine allowable wall area of walk out
(daylight) basements, the wall must have a minimum of six (6) foot exposure
from finished grade. The thirty percent (30%) limit can be exceeded only if the
designer can demonstrate that the UV total of the proposed design is less that
the UA total of the same structure with thirty percent (30%) fenestration total
and code minimum insulation and fenestration values using the RestCheck or
other approved software programs.
      (19)   Section 1102.4.1.2 (R402.4.1.2) Testing. Delete this section in
its entirety.
      (20)   Section N1103.3.3 (R403.3.3) Duct testing (Mandatory). Delete in
its entirety.
      (21)   Section N1103.3.4 (R403.3.4) Duct leakage (Prescriptive). Delete
in its entirety.
      (22)   Section N1103.3.5 (R403.3.5) Building cavities. (Mandatory).
Delete in its entirety.
      (23)   Section N1107 (R501) Existing buildings-general. Delete in its
entirety.
      (24)   Section M1701.1.1 Buildings of unusually tight construction. Add
the first sentence to read as follows: "In all structures containing habitable
space or unusually tight construction, combustion air shall be obtained from
the outside the thermal envelope.
      (25)   Section G2445.7 (621.7) Unvented decorative room heaters. A second
sentence shall be added: "Unvented log heaters shall not be installed in
habitable rooms or spaces or any space meeting the requirements of unusually
tight construction".
      (26)   Section P2603.5 Freezing. The last sentence shall be revised to
read "Water service pipes shall be installed not less than seventy-two (72)
inches deep".
      (27)   Section P3103.1.1 Roof extensions. Shall be revised to read: "Open
vent pipes that extend through a roof shall be terminated at least sixteen (16)
inches above the roof or six (6) inches above the anticipated snow
accumulation, whichever is greater."
(Prior Code, § 6.05.010) (Ord. 2021-23, passed 1-19-2022; Ord. 2024-10, passed
7-9-2024; Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 150.077 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   All building and temporary structures built or located within the town from
and upon the adoption of this ordinance shall be constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the National Electric Code latest edition as adopted by the
State Department of Fire Prevention and Electrical Safety, State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.010)
§ 150.078 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Buildings and temporary structures built or located within the town
from and upon adoption of this ordinance shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the International Mechanical Code (IMC), 2021 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council (ICC), specifically excluding
all appendices.
   (B)   The said code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully herein set out except as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1 Title. Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town of
Star Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section 106.5.2 Fee schedule. Shall read "For all buildings or
structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be paid as set
forth in the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (3)   Section 106.5.3 Fee refunds. Shall read "Refunds are described in
the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (4)   Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Shall read "Penalties for
infractions are described in §
35.01.”
      (5)   Section 108.5 Stop work orders. The last sentence shall read. "Stop
work orders and the penalties for non-compliance are described in §
150.057.
(Prior Code, § 6.07.010; Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 150.079 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Buildings and temporary structures built or located within the town
from and upon adoption of this ordinance shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the International Plumbing Code (IPC), 2021 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council (ICC), specifically excluding
all appendices.
   (B)   The said Code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully herein set out except as follows.
      (1)   Section 101.1 Title. Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town of
Star Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section 106.6.2 Fee schedule. Shall read, "For all buildings or
structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be paid as set
forth in the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (3)   Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds. Shall read: "Refunds are described in
the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (4)   Section 108.4 Violation penalties. Shall read: "Penalties for
infractions are described in §
35.01.”
      (5)   Section 108.5 Stop work orders. The last sentence shall read: "Stop
work orders and penalties for non-compliance are described in §
150.057.”
      (6)   Section 305.4 Freezing. Replace the last sentence with: "Exterior
water supply systems piping shall be installed not less than six (6) feet below
grade."
      (7)   Section 903.1 Roof extension shall read "All open vent pipes that
extend through a roof shall be terminated at least sixteen (16) inches above
the roof or six (6) inches above the anticipated snow accumulation whichever is
greater, except that where a roof is to be used for any purpose other than
weather protection, the vent extensions shall be run at least seven (7) feet
above the roof."
      (8)   Section 903.2 Frost enclosure. Amend the first sentence to read:
"Every vent extension through a roof or wall shall be a minimum of three (3)
inches in diameter."
      (9)   Section 100.3 Grease interceptors. Shall read: "Grease interceptors
shall be approved by the Building Official and shall comply with the
requirements of Sections 1003.3.1 through 1013.3.8. Interior grease
interceptors shall be provided with a solids interceptor that shall separate
the discharge before connecting to the grease interceptor."
(Prior Code, § 6.08.010; Ord. 2025-06, passed 7–8-2025)
§ 150.080 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   Buildings and temporary structures built or located within the town
from and upon adoption of this ordinance, that use fuel gas, shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the International Fuel Gas
Code, 2021 Edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC),
specifically excluding all appendices.
   (B)   The said code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully herein set out except as follows.
      (1)   Section 101.1 Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town of Star
Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section 106.5.2 Fee schedule shall read: "For all buildings or
structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be paid as set
forth in the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (3)   Section 106.6.3 Fee refunds shall read: "Refunds are described in
the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (4)   Section 108.4 Violation Penalties shall read: "Penalties for
infractions are described in §
35.01.”
      (5)   Section 108.5 Stop work orders. A sentence is added that reads:
"Stop work orders and the penalties for noncompliance are described in §
150.057.”
      (6)   Section 303.3 Prohibited locations. Exceptions Number 2, 3, and 4
shall be deleted.
      (7)   Section 621.2 Unvented room heaters prohibited use. Shall be
deleted.
      (8)   Section 621.4 Prohibited locations shall read: "Unvented room
heaters shall not be installed in residential occupancies, habitable rooms or
spaces, or buildings of unusually tight construction."
      (9)   Section 621.7 Unvented decorative room heaters. Revise to read as
follows: "An unvented decorative room heater shall not be installed in a
factory-built fireplace unless the fireplace system has been specifically
tested, listed and labeled for such use in accordance with UL 127 and Section
60."
      (10)   Section 621.7.1 Vent less firebox enclosures. Shall be deleted in
its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 6.09.010; Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025)
§ 150.081 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Buildings and temporary structures built or located within the town
from and upon adoption of this section shall be constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the International Fire Code (IFC), 2021 Edition, including
Appendices D and E as published by the International Code Council (ICC).
   (B)   The said code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully set out except as follows.
      (1)   Section 101.1 Title. Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town of
Star Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section 106.6.2 Schedule of fees. Shall read "For all buildings or
structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be paid as set
forth in the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (3)   Section 106.6.3 Refunds. Shall read "Refunds are described in the
Town of Star Valley Ranch Code, §§
150.035 through
150.050."
      (4)   Section 110.4 Violation. Shall read "Penalties for infractions are
described in §
35.01. Stop work orders are described in §
150.057.
      (5)   Section 112.4 Failure to comply. Shall read "Any person who shall
continue work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work
as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be liable to a fine as described in the §
35.01.”
(Prior Code, § 6.10.010) (Ord. 2022-14, passed 10-19-2022; Ord. 2025-06, passed
7-8-2025)
§ 150.082 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   All repairs, alterations, additions and relocations of existing
buildings built or located within the town from and upon the adoption of this
ordinance shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
International Existing Building Code (IEBC), 2021 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council (ICC), specifically excluding all appendices.
   (B)   The said code is incorporated herein by reference as if the same were
more fully herein set out as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1 Title. Delete (Name of Jurisdiction). Insert (Town of
Star Valley Ranch).
      (2)   Section 101.2 Scope. Add "for an occupancy change" after "with this
code" and "for no occupancy change" after International Residential Code.
      (3)   101.2 Scope. The provisions of this Code shall apply to the repair,
alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and relocation of existing
buildings.
      Exception: detached one-and two-family dwellings and multiple single-
family dwellings (townhouses) with separate means of egress, and their
accessory structures not more than three (3) stories above grade plane in
height, shall comply with this code for an occupancy change or the
International Residential Code for no occupancy change.
      (4)   Section 108.2 Schedule of permit fees. Shall read "for all
buildings or structures requiring any permit, the fee for such permit shall be
paid as set forth in the Town of Star Valley Ranch Code
150.035 through
150.050."
      (5)   Section 108.6 Refunds. Shall read: "Refunds are described in the
Town of Star Valley Ranch Code,
150.035 through
150.050."
      (6)   Section 113.4 Violation penalties. Shall read "Penalties for
infractions are described in §
35.01.”
      (7)   Section 114.1 Authority. Add the last sentence and it shall read:
"Stop work orders and the penalties for non-compliance are described in §
150.057.”
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 10-19-2022; Ord. 2025-06, passed 7-8-2025)
CHAPTER 151: ANNEXATION REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Authorization
   
151.03   Preliminary findings
   
151.04   Annexing territories; findings required; when contiguity not deemed
affected; annexation record
   
151.05   Fees
   
151.06   Compliance required
   
151.07   Right-of-way dedication
   
151.08   On-site requirements
   
151.09   Off-site improvements
   
151.10   Cost payment
   
151.11   Public land donation
   
151.12   Improvement completion guarantee
   
151.13   Plat size, materials and map
   
151.14   Plat contents
   
151.15   Subdivision annexation
   
151.16   Surveyor required
   
151.17   Lot markers
   
151.18   Record of survey
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community. The overall objective of this chapter is to
consider land annexations as part of a plan for the orderly, efficient and
economical development of the land within the town’s jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.010) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.02 AUTHORIZATION.
   Authorization for this is contained in W.S. §§ 15-1-401 through 15-1-422,
Annexation.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.020) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.03 PRELIMINARY FINDINGS.
   Prior to or in conjunction with the filing of a petition/application for
annexation as required in this ordinance, the prospective petitioner shall
arrange for a preliminary conference with the town in order to facilitate
planning and subsequent review of the petition/application for annexation by
the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.030) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.04 ANNEXING TERRITORIES; FINDINGS REQUIRED; WHEN CONTIGUITY NOT DEEMED
AFFECTED; ANNEXATION REPORT.
   Before any territory is eligible for annexation, the governing body of the
town at a hearing as provided in W.S. § 15-1-405 shall find that:
   (A)   An annexation of the area is for the protection of the health, safety
and welfare of the persons residing in the area and in the town; as required by
W.S. § 15-1-402(I);
   (B)   The urban development of the area sought to be annexed would
constitute a natural, geographical, economical and social part of the town; as
required by W.S. § 15-1-402(ii);
   (C)   The area sought to be annexed is a logical and feasible addition to
the town and the extension of basic and other services customarily available to
residents of the town shall, within reason, be available to the area proposed
to be annexed; as required by W.S. § 15-1-402(iii);
   (D)   The area sought to be annexed is contiguous with or adjacent to the
town, or the area meets the requirements of W.S. § 15-1-407; as required by
W.S. § 15-1-402(iv);
   (E)   If the town does not own or operate its own electric utility, its
governing body is prepared to issue one or more franchises as necessary to
serve the annexed area pursuant to W.S. § 15-1-410;
   (F)   The town, not less than 30 nor more than 180 business days prior to
the public hearing required by W.S. § 15-1-405(a), has sent by certified mail
to all landowners and affected public utilities within the territory a summary
of the proposed annexation report as required under W.S. § 15-1-402(c), and
notice of the time, date and location of the public hearing required by W.S. §
15-1-405(a); and
   (G)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of the public hearing by publishing a
notice at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the territory
sought to be annexed. The first notice shall be given at least 15 business days
prior to the date of the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.040) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.05 FEES.
   To effect and facilitate the proper administration of this chapter and the
annexation of properties to the town, the applicant shall, at the time of
submission of the application to the town, pay the application fee as
determined by resolution of the Town Council. Later fees sufficient to cover
the costs incurred in administering, filing and recording of any documents
necessary for the annexation of properties into the town, will be paid by the
applicant at the time such services are rendered.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.050) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.06 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any proceedings for annexation of eligible territory to the town shall be
subject to the provisions of the town’s ordinances and in compliance with the
state.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.060) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATION.
   Whenever appropriate for the purpose of implementing the master plan of the
town or for the purpose of extending existing rights-of-way, the Town Council
may require the dedication of rights-of-way and/or easements through all or
portions of the lands to be annexed.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.070) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.08 ON-SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The petitioner must present an integrated plan that ensures that the
development can be a stand-alone autonomous entity.
   (B)    Connectivity to town roads and water will be required but in the case
of wastewater and septic/sewer requirements, the petitioner must ensure that
this item is permanently handled by the developer and/or a Homeowners
Association (HOA) or an equivalent legal entity without any future liability to
the town since the town has no sewer system.
      (1)   Wastewater septic/sewer ownership. Wastewater sewer/septic systems
shall be the property of the developer and or a homeowners association. These
entities shall assume the responsibility of developing, maintaining,
preserving, policing and insuring said systems. These entities shall have the
power to assess property owners within the development for maintenance,
preservation, policing and insurance of said systems.
      (2)   Wastewater sewer/septic management plan.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a plan for management of the
wastewater sewer/septic (management plan) that: allocates responsibility and
guidelines for the maintenance and operation of any facilities located thereon,
including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital
improvements; estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for
maintenance and operation of, and insurance for and outlines the means by which
such funding will be obtained or provided; and
         (b)   Provides that any changes to the management plan be approved by
the town.
      (3)   Wastewater sewer/septic maintenance. Maintenance of wastewater
sewer/septic owned by a developer or a homeowners association shall be the
responsibility of the developer or the homeowner’s association. In the event
the party responsible for maintenance of the wastewater sewer/septic fails to
maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the town may
assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take
corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs
of such maintenance shall be charged to the developer or the homeowners
association, or to the individual property owners that make up the homeowners’
association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs
shall become a lien on all subdivision properties.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.075) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 151.09 OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where appropriate, the Town Council may require the petitioner to
construct, at petitioner’s own expense, such off-site improvements, in
compliance with all town ordinances, which may be required to serve the
annexing properties in order to provide adequate and efficient transportation,
water, sewage and other public facilities in order to avoid excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such facilities.
   (B)   The improvements may include, but need not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   Sanitary sewer/septic lines to, through and adjacent to the
annexing property;
      (2)   Water line extensions to, through and adjacent to the annexing
property;
      (3)   Street improvements through and adjacent to the annexing property;
      (4)   Storm drainage improvements and facilities within or adjacent to
the annexing property; and
      (5)   Improvements must be to town standards and approved by Town Council
and Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.080) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.10 COST PAYMENT.
   When appropriate, the Town Council may require as a condition of annexation,
payment for a reasonable fair share of the cost of existing public facilities
which have been installed to, through or adjacent to the annexing property. The
public facilities may include, but need not be limited to, sewage treatment
facilities, water mains, street improvements or storm drainage areas.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.090) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.11 PUBLIC LAND DONATION.
   When appropriate for the purpose of implementing the master plan of the
town, the Town Council may require that a portion or portions of the annexing
properties be reserved for future parks and/or recreational sites, school sites
or open spaces.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.100) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.12 IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION GUARANTEE.
   All improvements, which may be required by the Town Council as a condition
of annexation, shall be sufficiently guaranteed in writing. A performance bond
or other form of assurance acceptable to the Town Council and the Town Attorney
in accord with the requirements for the same as provided in the subdivision
regulations shall be provided by the petitioner prior to final approval of the
proposed annexation by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.110) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.13 PLAT SIZE, MATERIALS AND MAP.
   The annexation plat shall be accurately and legibly prepared in black,
waterproof ink upon one or more sheets of polyester film measuring 24 inches by
36 inches. A marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet leaving
an entirely blank margin of two inches on the left side and one-half inch on
all other sides. All signatures shall be in black, waterproof ink. The scale of
the map shall be a maximum of 100 feet to an inch unless otherwise authorized
by the Town Council. A location map showing the annexation property in relation
to the section it resides in shall be provided at a scale of one inch equals
1,000 feet. All rights-of-way and subdivisions shall be shown and labeled. An
electronic/digital copy of the annexation plat shall be provided at a scale and
format acceptable to the town at the time the plat is accepted. The electronic/
digital copy shall reflect the plat as it appears on polyester film without
signatures.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.120) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.14 PLAT CONTENTS.
   The following items shall be included on the annexation plat:
   (A)   Name of the annexation, date, label “annexation plat,” written and
graphic scale, and north arrow. The title of the annexation plat shall contain
a subtitle which indicates the quarter section, section, township and range in
which the annexation is located;
   (B)   An accurate and complete boundary survey shall be made of the lands to
be annexed. A traverse of the exterior boundaries of the lands to be annexed
when computed from field measurements on the ground, must close within a limit
of one foot to 10,000 feet of perimeter. The boundary of the annexation shall
be clearly indicated on the plat. All lines shown on the plat which do not
constitute a part of the annexation, shall be dashed;
   (C)   The annexation plat shall show all survey and mathematical information
and data necessary to locate all monuments and to locate and retrace any and
all interior and exterior boundary lines appearing thereon including bearings
and distances of straight lines and radii, lengths, tangent distances and
deflection for all circular curves. Where, under unusual circumstances, curves
other than circular are used, the plat must indicate the type of curve and
pertinent data;
   (D)   All rights-of-way or parcels required to be dedicated for any purpose
shall be particularly delineated and designated with all dimensions, boundaries
and courses clearly shown and defined in every case. Sufficient linear, angular
and curve data shall be shown to determine readily the bearing and length of
the boundary lines of every parcel which is a part thereof. The area of each
parcel shall be shown with an accuracy of 1:100;
   (E)   The annexation plat shall show fully and describe clearly what stakes,
monuments and/or evidence that were used to determine the boundaries of the
legal description of the annexation where found on the ground. The final plat
shall also show fully and clearly, each adjacent corner of each adjoining
subdivision or portion thereof, by lot and block numbers, tract names or
number, and place of record; or by section, township or range; or by other
proper designation. The location of all monuments placed in making the survey
and if any points were reset by ties, that information shall be stated. Affixed
securely to the top of each such monument established shall be the state
registration number of the land surveyor responsible for the establishment of
the monument. These monuments shall be set at all angle points, and at the
beginning, end, and points of change of direction or change of radius of any
curved boundaries. To ensure accurate resurveys and future adjacent platting,
ties to at least two section corners and/or quarter section corners shall be
shown on the annexation plat. Information differing from previous annexations
and subdivisions shall be shown in parenthesis;
   (F)   The annexation plat shall contain a certificate signed and
acknowledged by all parties having any record title interest in the land being
annexed consenting to the annexation of the subject properties;
   (G)   A certificate, signed and acknowledged as above, offering for
dedication, all parcels of land shown on the annexation plat and intended for
any public dedication, whenever the dedications are required as a condition of
annexation;
   (H)   A certificate shall be signed by a state registered land surveyor
stating that he or she is responsible for the survey and that the plat
accurately depicts the lands being annexed. A statement by the land surveyor
explaining how bearings were determined shall be included on the plat. The
signature of the surveyor shall be accompanied by his or her registration
number;
   (I)   Certificate for execution by each of the following:
      (1)   Town Attorney;
      (2)   Public Works Department head;
      (3)   Mayor;
      (4)   Town Clerk;
      (5)   Planning Department head; and
      (6)   Recorder’s certificate.
   (J)   Legal description of the lands being annexed and reflecting the
boundary survey and including the section, township and range. The method of
description shall be by use of the standard land measurement term and/or by use
of metes and bounds except in cases of previously subdivided land. The
subdivision, block, tract and/or lot shall also be described. A complete legal
description is also required of all the property being annexed, shown by
reference to maps or deeds of the property shown thereon, as has been
previously recorded or filed. Each reference to the description, to any tract
or subdivision, shall be spelled and worded identically with the original
record thereof, and must show book and page reference to record of the county.
The description shall also include reference to any vacated area with the book
and page number of the instrument of vacation, and any excepted tract shall be
described as in the original instrument.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.130) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.15 SUBDIVISION ANNEXATION.
   When a petition for annexation includes only lands being subdivided or re-
subdivided, the annexation plat shall consist of the approved subdivision plat
and shall conform to all the requirements set forth in the subdivision
regulations. The more restrictive or strict requirements shall apply where
there is a variance between this chapter and the subdivision regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.140) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.16 SURVEYOR REQUIRED.
   All lot boundary surveys or resurveys performed within the corporate limits
of the town shall be performed by or under the supervision of a surveyor
properly licensed in the state. All such surveys shall be performed according
to generally accepted surveying practices.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.150) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.17 LOT MARKERS.
   Lot markers on property corners set during the course of such surveys, or
resurveys shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   In firm soil, No. 5 steel rebar 18 to 24 inches long with metal caps
or tags identifying the corner.
   (B)   In concrete walks or curbs, three-fourths-inch diameter blind rivet
with one-fourth-inch diameter shank.
   (C)   In solid rock, blind rivet as in division (B) above or one-fourth-inch
diameter by three-inch long iron bar grouted in drilled hole two inches deep.
   (D)   Field and/or office data indicating how the point and line of
beginning were established and the tolerance used as well as any adjustments
made to ensure mathematical closure of the survey.
   (E)   Drawings shall be submitted on sheets eight and one-half inches by 14
inches drawn to scale, the scale used shall be such as to ensure adequate
showing of detail as may be required by the town.
   (F)   An electronic/digital copy of the survey shall be provided at a scale
and format acceptable to the town at the time the survey is accepted. The
electronic/digital copy shall reflect the survey as it appears on the hard
copy.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.160) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 151.18 RECORD OF SURVEY.
   Not later than 14 days after the completion of any survey or resurvey, the
surveyor shall file with the town, a record of such, including the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and applicable license number of person certifying the
survey; and
   (B)   The dates on which the survey was made; a drawing of the survey
identifying its location by addition, block number and lot numbers of the land
surveyed, or such other description as will readily identify the location of
the land surveyed. The drawing shall show the location and type of property
corners found and used during the course of the survey (e.g., spike, pipe with
survey cap, concrete monument and the like), the dimensions and angles turned
on all lines included in the survey.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.170) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Subdivision standards
   
152.03   Solid waste disposal commercial users and multi-family zones
   
152.04   Septic/sewer requirements
   
152.05   Buffering
   
152.06   Performance guarantee procedures
   
152.07   Snow storage
   
152.08   Storm water management
   
152.09   Density
   
152.10   Platting
   
152.11   Surveying and monuments
   
152.12   Lot improvements
   
152.13   Street requirements
   
152.14   Street construction standards
   
152.15   Alleys
   
152.16   Private streets
   
152.17   Impact/investment fees
   
152.18   Open space requirements
   
152.19   Manufactured/mobile home park standards
   
152.20   Subdivision construction fine schedule
   
152.21   Multiple-Family Residential Zones MR-1 and MR-2
   
152.22   Subdivision development agreement
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The procedures, regulations and standards contained within this Land
Development Code have been established to accomplish the following objectives:
   (A)   Promote public health, safety and welfare;
   (B)   Provide guidance for future development and growth in accordance with
the current adopted Master Plan of the town;
   (C)   Integrate existing streets and roads with the Master Street Plan and
other related development of the town;
   (D)   Assure safe and adequate transportation systems, water and other
public uses and facilities;
   (E)   Establish reasonable standards of design and uniform procedures for
the subdivision and re-subdivision of land;
   (F)   Provide for orderly layout, documentation and legal description of
subdivided lands;
   (G)   Provide for an orderly and expeditious method of processing
applications for subdivisions and re-subdivisions;
   (H)   All major subdivisions shall have a town approved Homeowners
Association (HOA) or an equivalent legal entity, and comply with §
152.02, this section, §
152.03, Solid waste disposal, §
152.04, Septic/sewer requirements, §
152.18, Open space requirements and §
152.20.
   (I)   If the applicant provides a location for mail delivery as directed by
the United States Postal Service (USPS), snow removal shall be provided by a
town-approved Homeowners Association (HOA) or an equivalent legal entity.
   (J)   Compliance with the town’s Title VII; and
   (K)   These standards are for subdivisions inside the town but apply to
subdivisions around the town’s borders.
   (L)   No lot may be offered for sale or sold (warranty deeds transferred)
prior to final plat approval by the Town of Star Valley Ranch and recording by
the Lincoln County Clerk. Also, no building permits shall be issued by the Town
until final plat approval and recording.
   (M)   Geotechnical Report that includes:
      (1)   A summary of hazards present, and recommended actions.
      (2)   A description of proposed construction.
      (3)   A description of the investigation methods, including field
investigations, laboratory analysis conditions, and report preparations.
      (4)   A description of the site conditions, including soil, bedrock,
groundwater, and other physical features present that may limit development.
      (5)   Analysis of engineering properties and recommendations in relations
to foundations: over-excavation and engineered fill; bearing capacity, lateral
loads on basement walls, soil function factor, earthwork, site grading and
runoff control, foundation and retaining wall drainages; slab on grade
reinforcing, utilities testing and concrete considerations, and ventilation,
and radon.
      (6)   Summary of engineering limitations.
      (7)   The report shall be accomplished by figures and tables sufficient
to convey the results of each test hole and an overall site plan showing the
location of each test hole. The spacing of test holes will be dependent on the
horizontal and vertical variation of the subsurface material. In all case, the
spacing should result in representation of all soil on the subdivision.
   (N)   Developer agrees that all unsold lots shall be maintained by the
Developer at the Developers sole expense.
   (O)   The Developer warrants the prompt and satisfactory correction of all
defects and deficiencies, for both materials and workmanship, in the
improvements to be owned and maintained by the Town, if any that occur or
become evident within one year.
   (P)   The Developer shall at its sole cost and expense properly and complete
any required improvements: Paved roads, Central water system, Electrical power
and Communication lines to each lot identified in the Preliminary Plat, and
Central sewer lines, if required, to each lot identified in the Preliminary
Plat. Developer agrees that such improvements shall be installed in compliance
with Town Ordinances adopted by the Town or other agencies responsible for
providing service to the development.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.010) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 152.02 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All improvements located upon land which is subdivided shall be designed and
constructed in compliance with the following laws, rules and regulations and
standards.
   (A)   Local ordinances: The zoning chapter (
Chapter 154), Buildings chapter (Chapter 150) of the town and all current
adopted codes and applicable ordinances of the town.
   (B)   State laws and county regulations: all applicable laws of the state
and county regulations, including, but not limited to, W.S. §§ 18-5-306, 34-12-
101 to 34-12-104 and all rules and regulations, having the force and effect of
law.
   (C)   State Public Works Standard Specifications Adoption by Reference
Wyoming Public Works Standard Specifications (WPWSS) - Current Version as
published by the Wyoming Public Works Council are hereby adopted by reference.
The said WPWSS are incorporated herein by reference as if the same were more
fully herein set out.
   (D)   Standard drawings and specifications: the town standard drawings and
engineering specifications (in preparation).
   (E)   Engineering and survey plans, specifications and reports required in
connection with public improvements and other elements of the applicant’s
Subdivision Master Plan required by the governing body must be prepared by a
professional engineer and professional land surveyor licensed in the state.
   (F)   The applicant or his or her contractor(s) shall not proceed with any
construction work on a proposed subdivision, including grading and excavation
relating to public improvements, until the governing body has given preliminary
plat approval of the proposed subdivision plat. The applicant shall incur
penalties and assume all risks and liability for errors in improvement/
placement. The improvements/placement must comply with the conditions and
agreements of the final plat.
   (G)   The applicant shall not proceed with any construction work on a
proposed subdivision until all roads, water lines and utilities are installed
(per town and utility company specifications) for the total proposed
development along the roads identified in the developers approved master plan.
   (H)   All major subdivisions shall have a town approved state legal entity,
and comply with §
152.02, this section, §
152.03, §
152.03, Solid waste disposal, §
152.04, Septic/sewer requirements, §
152.18, Open space requirements and §
152.20.
   (I)   If the applicant provides a location for mail delivery as directed by
the United States Postal Service (USPS), snow removal shall be provided by a
town-approved state legal entity.
   (J)   The applicant shall have completed an analysis outlining the
anticipated costs in the process of becoming part of the town. This analysis
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Anticipated costs required by additional road, water and other
maintenance requirements;
      (2)   Additional equipment costs; and
      (3)   Additional costs required by the town.
   (K)   All utilities are to be underground.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.020) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.03 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL COMMERCIAL USERS AND MULTI-FAMILY ZONES.
   A town-approved state legal entity, must establish regulations for:
   (A)   Adequate trash disposal capacity, haulage and collection points;
   (B)   Trash shall be hauled from the site at least weekly;
   (C)   Trash collection points shall be screened, not visible, and designed
to prevent trash from being scattered by the wind or used by animals; and
   (D)   Developments that do not offer common waste collection points or
services, shall establish a mechanism that will mitigate potential trash-
related problems.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.030) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 152.04 SEPTIC/SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   The applicant shall provide to the town, at the time of application, a
complete study certifying that all county, state and federal standards for
septic/sewer requirements have been met.
   (A)   The county standard for lots less than five acres for single-family
residence requires an enhanced/advanced septic treatment system as directed by
NSF Standard 40.
   (B)   In the case of a development plan that includes a high-density zone,
MR-1 or MR-2, state statutes and county regulations require a full and current
DEQ Chapter 23 Wastewater Study. This study will determine the level of
treatment, a waste treatment facility or appropriate and robust alternative,
that must be employed. A full understanding of all ground conditions must be
shown in the proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.035) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.05 BUFFERING.
   The town and the applicant shall agree upon buffering requirements.
   (A)   Buffering shall be required between developments of different
intensities and use. Examples of adjacency situations that require buffering
may include projects that propose non-residential uses next to existing
residential uses, multi-family next to existing single-family.
   (B)   Buffering shall be required when the development creates noise, glare,
traffic, dust, lighting or other negative effects.
   (C)   Berms shall be at least two feet high and should appear natural. Berms
shall have a gentle transition to surrounding grade. Grades on berms shall not
exceed 3:1. Berms shall be seeded and planted with tree clusters or natural
vegetation.
   (D)   Tree clusters shall consist of three or more trees at least four feet
tall planted at intervals sufficient to buffer the project.
   (E)   Other buffering measures may be employed on a case-by-case basis if a
determination is made that a fence, trees or berm will not sufficiently buffer
the project. These measures may include setbacks, landscaping, or other methods
identified and agreed upon by the development applicant and the town.
   (F)   Buffering shall be maintained as not to fall into disrepair by the
developer or a Homeowners Association.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.040) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 152.06 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An applicant shall submit to the Town Planning Commission satisfactory
evidence of adequate financial resources to develop and complete improvements
proposed and presented.
   (B)   Applicant/developer shall comply with subdivision development
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.050) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 152.07 SNOW STORAGE.
   (A)   Each subdivision shall contain adequate snow storage areas to
accommodate snow removed from on-street or off-street parking areas, or the
removal of snow from elsewhere on the subdivision property.
   (B)   Snow storage standards:
      (1)   If an off-site snow repository is not used, an adequate on-site
snow storage area shall be provided within the subdivision property;
      (2)   The size of the storage area shall be determined in the following
manner: Minimum snow storage areas shall represent 2.5% of the total area
dedicated for on-street and off-street parking; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage of the snow storage area shall be provided to
accommodate snowmelt. No snowmelt shall drain onto adjacent land areas.
   (C)   Open space and landscaped areas within the subdivision may be used to
accommodate required snow storage area.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.060) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.08 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Amount of storm water runoff.
      (1)   No subdivision shall cause adjacent landowners, watercourses,
drainageways or channels to receive storm water runoff from the subdivision at
a higher peak flow rate, or at higher velocities, than would have resulted from
the same storm event occurring within the proposed subdivision site in its
existing condition;
      (2)    The discharge of storm water into irrigation ditches shall not be
permitted without approval from the appropriate owner and the town; and
      (3)   Public water shall not be discharged onto or through private
property without a recorded easement from appropriate landowners.
   (B)   Velocity of storm water runoff. All storm water retention storage,
sump storage and groundwater recharge areas shall be located within the
subdivision property. These areas shall be designed to contain and dispose of
the estimated runoff from 100-year, 24-hour storm event.
   (C)   Detention basins.
      (1)   When necessary, detention basins or equivalent management
facilities shall be designed and constructed with sufficient capacity to
maintain a post-development runoff rate from a subdivision development site
that is equal or lower than the pre-development runoff rate. Drainage design
shall address the treatment of surface and storm water runoff via both wet-
weather and dry-weather discharges.
      (2)   Where runoff from development of a subdivision could generate
adverse consequences upon persons, land or wildlife, storm water detention
facilities shall be constructed prior to any earth moving activities associated
with site development.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.065) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.09 DENSITY.
   (A)   Lot/parcel size requirements: Newly created single-family residential
lots shall be no smaller than one-half acre.
   (B)   Multiple-Family Residential MR-1 and MR-2 Zones see §
152.21.
   (C)   The development shall function efficiently and safely given the sites
topography, location, hazards and the development of:
      (1)   Utilities;
      (2)   Vehicular, pedestrian and emergency access;
      (3)   Parking;
      (4)   Small wastewater systems;
      (5)   Storage of trash, snow and other items;
      (6)   Structures;
      (7)   Open space; and
      (8)   One hundred-year storm event storage/retention.
   (D)   The development lot/parcel shall contain and or mitigate external
nuisances. External nuisances include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Odor;
      (2)   Noise;
      (3)   Vibration;
      (4)   Dust;
      (5)   Smoke; and
      (6)   Light.
   (E)   New developments should be as compatible as reasonably possible with
adjoining and/or surrounding densities and uses in terms of the preservation of
views, the design, bulk and height of the proposed structures, and the need to
preserve the privacy of neighbors.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.070) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.10 PLATTING.
   (A)   Platting required. No person shall subdivide or re-subdivide any
piece, parcel or tract of land, situated within the town or within one mile
outside the town limits, or sell or convey any subdivision or portion thereof,
within said area, without first filing a plat approved by the town in
conformity with the requirements of this chapter. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any plat situated within an officially designated area of impact
shall be subject to the terms and provisions of any area of impact agreement
between the town and the county.
   (B)   Exclusions. Platting shall not be required for:
      (1)   A bona fide sale, division or partition of land intended strictly
for use thereafter as agricultural land. The intent to construct, as evidenced
by a request or a building permit for a residence, apartment, commercial or
industrial building or other non-agricultural building or buildings upon such
tract of land, shall be deemed sufficient evidence that the land described in
the application for a building permit is no longer agricultural and shall
immediately subject such land to the requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   An allocation of land in settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property;
      (3)   An involuntary sale of land as result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the state statutes;
      (4)   A widening of existing streets to conform to the current adopted
master plan, master road plan or by authority of the town;
      (5)   The acquisition of the street right-of-way by a public agency in
conformity with the current adopted master plan, master road plan by the
authority of the town; or
      (6)   An exchange of land for the sole purpose of altering property
boundaries or enlarging any existing lot, and which does not create additional
lots.
   (C)   Amended plat. Whenever a developer proposes to re-subdivide, re-plat
or amend the plat of an approved or recorded subdivision, the developer shall
file a new application for a subdivision and such application shall be
processed in the manner set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Plat specifications. All final plats shall comply with W.S. §§ 34-12-
101 to 34-12-104 and such legality, permanency, clarity, reproducibility,
accuracy, uniformity and neatness of the plat. The map drawings shall be at a
scale of one inch equals 200 feet for lots two acres or larger; for lots
smaller than two acres, minimum scale shall be one inch equals 100 feet. The
plat shall also contain such information as is necessary to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.080) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11 SURVEYING AND MONUMENTS.
   (A)   All linear dimensions shown on a plat shall be calculated to the
nearest one-hundredth of a foot and all bearings shall be calculated to one
second of arc. All curves shall be defined by the radius, central angle,
tangent, arc and chord distances. The description and location of all monuments
shall be shown. Monuments as directed by the Town Engineer, conforming to town
standards, and installed to town standards shall be set at centerline tangent
points, centerline points of curve, centerline points of intersection of
streets, and any subdivision boundary points which fall in the area of the
streets and shall be existing at the time of the town’s final acceptance of the
street improvements. All points on the exterior boundary of the subdivision
where the boundary changes direction shall be marked with monuments either of
concrete with a brass cap, galvanized iron pipe not less than one inch in
diameter and 30 inches long, or iron or steel rods not less than five-eighths
inch in diameter and 30 inches long, or as directed by the Town Engineer.
Points shall be plainly and permanently marked upon monuments so that
measurements may be taken to them to one-tenth of a foot. All lot corners shall
be marked with monuments of either galvanized iron pipe, not less than one-half
inch in diameter, or iron or steel rods, not less than one-half inch in
diameter and two feet long. These points shall exist at the time of final
acceptance by the town of the subdivision improvements. No plat showing a plus
or minus distance will be accepted unless agreed to by the Town Engineer. Each
lot corner shall be monumented with a permanent marker in accordance with the
Rules and Regulations of the State Board for Registration of Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors.
   (B)   A definite tie between not less than two prominent points shall be
shown between the exterior boundary of the subdivision and the section corner
and quarter corner system as established by the United States government and
supplemented by the town and the county, and shall be indicated by bearing and
distance and coordinates if directed by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   The final plat shall be submitted to the Town Engineer along with a
computation sheet of bearing coordinates on all points, based on the state
plane coordinate system.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.090) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.12 LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Lots shall be arranged so that they meet all qualifications necessary
to secure a building permit.
   (B)   Lot dimensions shall conform to the minimum standards in the zoning
chapter (
Chapter 154).
   (C)   All property in the subdivision shall be included within a lot or
within an area dedicated for public use.
   (D)   Adequate provisions shall be made for soil preservation, drainage
patterns, and debris and waste disposal and collection.
   (E)   Relationships to streets.
      (1)   Lots shall have full frontage on, and access to, a dedicated
street.
      (2)   Side lines of lots shall be at, or near, right angles or radial to
the street lines. All corner lots shall have a minimum radius of 20 feet on the
property line.
      (3)   Access to arterial streets.
         (a)   Residential lots shall not have direct access to arterial
streets.
         (b)   Direct access to arterial streets from commercial or industrial
lots may be permitted where it can be demonstrated that:
            1.   The direct access will not impede the flow of traffic on the
arterial or otherwise create an unsafe condition;
            2.   There is no reasonable alternative for access to the arterial
via a collector street;
            3.   There is sufficient sight distance along the arterial from the
proposed point of access;
            4.   The proposed access is located so as not to interfere with the
safe and efficient functioning of any intersection; and
            5.   The developer or owner agrees to provide all improvements,
such as turning lanes or signals, necessitated for the safe and efficient use
of the proposed access.
         (c)   Lots abutting an arterial street.
            1.   Such lots shall have reverse frontage on the arterial streets.
            2.   Such lots shall be buffered from the arterial street by any
effective combination of the following: lot depth, earth berms, vegetation,
walls or fences, and structural soundproofing.
            3.   The minimum lot depth shall be 150 feet, except where the use
of berms, vegetation, and structures can be demonstrated to constitute an
effective buffer for a dwelling on a lot less than 150 feet in depth.
            4.   Whenever practical, existing roadside trees shall be saved and
used in the arterial buffer.
            5.   Annexation and development agreements shall include provisions
for installation and continued maintenance of arterial buffers.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.100) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.13 STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   The purpose of this section is to promote and maintain the health and safety
of town residents; to provide for the orderly flow of traffic within the town;
to facilitate access of emergency vehicles to all parts of town; and to allow
the safe and orderly movement of pedestrians, bicycles and permitted off-road
vehicles.
   (A)   Subdivision connectivity. The degree of street/road connectivity
between arterials and collector and local streets within a subdivision impacts
the response time of emergency vehicles. A high degree of street connectivity
shortens the response time by providing more direct routes and alternate routes
to the site of the emergency. The town thus requires a high degree of
connectivity as a health and safety measure.
      (1)   All new streets and roads within a new subdivision (development)
shall be public and the property of a common entity.
      (2)   Access to arterial streets.
         (a)   Access to a new subdivision shall be from arterial and/or
collector streets. The number of permanent, developed accesses is a function of
the number of lots and the length of the longest street within the subdivision.
In addition to the developed accesses, subdivisions shall also have a specified
number of emergency access points that may be less developed, but capable of
supporting a large fire engine, and protected by crash barriers. The required
number of developed and emergency access routes are presented in the table
below.
         (b)   The number of accesses may be reduced in areas where it is
determined by the town or its representative, that the provision of one or more
additional accesses is not practicable based on topography or other access
constraints; the reduction in the number of accesses may require mitigation,
such as sprinklers, or turnarounds.
 
Required Number of Accesses to a Subdivision
Number of Lots in Principle Developed Emergency Access Total Number of Accesses
Subdivision       Access                               Required
0-9               1                   0                1
10-39             2                   0                2
40-79             2                   1                3
80 or more        3                   2                5
 
         (c)   Length of travel requirement: the centroid of any lot within the
subdivision shall not lie greater than 5,000 feet by street distance from a
permanent, developed access to an arterial or collector street. This length of
travel requirement may necessitate accesses in addition to those required by
subdivision lot number.
      (3)   Access to adjoining properties shall be provided by:
         (a)   Connecting to existing streets that extend to the property line
or when the existing street is parallel to the property line and lays within
ten feet of said property line the new subdivision street shall join such
existing street by acquired easement:
         (b)   When the adjoining property is undeveloped:
            1.   Streets shall be extended to adjoining subdivision property
lines.
            2.   One access per 1,000 feet of shared property line shall be
provided (rounded to the nearest 1,000 feet).
         (c)   Under no circumstances shall the subdivision result in the
isolation of an adjacent property from an arterial or collector road.
   (B)   All streets in the subdivision shall conform to the current adopted
master road plan or by the authority of the town and to this section.
   (C)   New subdivisions shall be designed in a grid pattern of
interconnecting streets that is designed to allow traffic flow to adjacent
properties. The layout should be suited to the existing topography and other
natural features of the area; it is recognized that in some cases a varied
design containing a layout of curving streets or circular patterns may be more
appropriate for the site than a rectilinear grid.
   (D)   Block dimensions: while topography, existing vegetation, hydrology and
design intentions influence block shape and size, the maximum length for a
block shall be no longer than 600 feet and the minimum length shall not be less
than 400 feet, with an allowance for blocks up to 1,000 feet in length when
mid-block foot paths are provided.
   (E)   The alignment and width of previously platted streets on abutting
properties shall be preserved unless topographical conditions or existing
buildings or structures require otherwise.
   (F)   Streets, alleys and utility lines shall be arranged in a manner which
will, insofar as possible, facilitate convenient extension and connection
thereof to future streets, alleys and utility lines developed by the owners of
adjoining property at the time their property is platted.
   (G)   No plat shall be laid out in any manner for the purpose of creating a
spite strip within or adjacent to the subdivision.
   (H)   In order to calm traffic speeds and to provide for pedestrian safety,
the use of “T” intersections within the subdivision is encouraged. At least 25%
of all intersections within subdivisions equaling or exceeding 40 acres should
take this form, unless other design devices, such as traffic circles or signed
intersections are employed to reduce vehicle travel speed.
   (I)   Dead-end streets may be allowed in residentially zoned areas and shall
be no longer than 400 feet as measured from the centerline of the intersecting
street to the end of the dead-end street.
      (1)   Permanent dead-end streets must end in a cul-de-sac that allows the
turning of large emergency vehicles. Minimum cul-de-sac dimensions are:
         (a)   Transition radius of 25 feet; and
         (b)   Right-of-way bulb radius of 50 feet.
      (2)   Temporary dead-end streets with a length greater than 400 feet may
be allowed where either an adjoining phase of the subdivision, as shown on the
applicant’s subdivision master plan will begin within three years or where
necessary to permit access to adjoining undeveloped lands as required in this
chapter.
         (a)   The temporary dead-end street shall be considered a permanent
street and improved to the same degree as other permanent streets within the
subdivision and shall meet other street standards.
         (b)   The temporary dead-end street shall end with appropriate warning
signs and barricades.
         (c)   Temporary dead-end streets intended to provide access to
adjacent undeveloped properties shall end in a temporary cul-de-sac with
dimensions as described in this section. The excess right-of-way required for
the temporary cul-de-sac shall be returned to adjacent property owners upon
connection of the street to an adjoining street on the adjacent property.
   (J)   Street signs shall be purchased, and installed by the developer at his
sole expense, through the Town to assure standardization throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.110) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 152.14 STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All new streets and roads shall be paved and shall be constructed and
designed to meet or exceed town standard drawings and engineering
specifications approved by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Intersection design standards.
      (1)   Three-way intersections are encouraged. In no event shall an
intersection greater than four ways be approved.
      (2)   Angle of intersection.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly possible at
right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at an angle of less
than 85 degrees.
         (b)   Streets shall remain at such an angle of intersections for at
least 100 feet beyond the intersection.
      (3)   Intersection offset shall be as follows:
 
Minimum Centerline Offset of Adjacent Intersection
Connection Type     Local Streets Collector Street Arterial Road
Local Street to     400 feet      400 feet         1,320 feet
Collector Street to ---           400 feet         1,320 feet
Arterial Road to    ---           ---              2,640 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 14.02.120) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.15 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys are generally discouraged except in multi-family residential
and commercial/community building zones where they may reduce traffic
congestion, facilitate delivery of goods and removal of trash, and to reduce
the number of driveways accessing town streets.
   (B)   When permitted, alleys shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Dimensions.
         (a)   Width. A minimum right-of-way width of 20 feet and a maximum
right-of-way width of 30 feet.
         (b)   Length. No alley shall exceed 860 feet in length as measured
from the centerlines of the intersecting streets.
         (c)   Paved width. All alleys shall have a minimum of 20 feet of hard
surface (gravel, asphalt or concrete) along its centerline.
         (d)   Clear zone. The alley shall have a minimum of 15 feet vertical
clearance and a minimum of 12 feet horizontal on either side of the centerline.
      (2)   Other.
         (a)   Alleys shall not intersect a street at an angle less than 75
degrees.
         (b)   A dead-end alley shall be prohibited.
         (c)   Alleys will not be publicly maintained.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.130) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.16 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets are not allowed.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.140) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.17 IMPACT/INVESTMENT FEES.
   See §
152.06. The developer/owner of a new subdivision that accesses one or more
existing town streets may be required to pay an impact fee to the town to cover
the estimated costs of improving said streets to meet the anticipated traffic
generated by the subdivision and to cover the actual cost of additional
maintenance generated by construction traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.150) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.18 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   Open spaces, whether required by a zone or voluntary, shall meet the
following.
   (A)   Each development shall provide open space that is at least 15% of the
gross development area or 500 square feet per housing unit, whichever is
greater.
   (B)   The design and location of the open space site as well as its
landscaping, and recreational furniture shall serve one or more of the
following functions:
      (1)   Provide opportunities for outdoor recreation;
      (2)   Provide contrasts to the built environment;
      (3)   Preserve scenic qualities;
      (4)   Protect sensitive or fragile environmental areas;
      (5)   Enhance and protect the values and functions of trees and forest;
      (6)   Preserve the capacity and water quality of the storm water drainage
system; or
      (7)   Provide pedestrian and bicycle transportation connections.
   (C)   Open space within a development shall consist of one parcel broken
only by streets or pathways.
   (D)   Open space in excess of four acres and providing for outdoor
recreational opportunities shall provide off-street parking for four vehicles
per acre of open space (golf courses are excluded from this requirement).
   (E)   Open space ownership. Open spaces shall be the property of the
development's Homeowners Association (HOA) or an equivalent legal entity. Such
association shall assume the responsibility of developing, maintaining,
preserving, policing and ensuring said open space. The association shall have
the power to assess property owners within the development for the development,
maintenance, preservation, policing and insurance of said open space.
   (F)   Open space management plan.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a plan for management of the open space
(management plan) that: allocates responsibility and guidelines for the
maintenance and operation of the open space and any facilities located thereon,
including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital
improvements; estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for
maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the open space and outlines
the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided.
      (2)   Provides that any changes to the management plan be approved by the
town.
   (G)   Open space maintenance. Maintenance of open space owned by a town-
approved Homeowners Association (HOA) or an equivalent legal entity, shall be
the responsibility of this entity. In the event the party responsible for
maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all or any portion in
reasonable order and condition the town may assume responsibility for its
maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including
the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be
charged to this entity, or to the individual property owners that make up this
entity and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall
become a lien on all subdivision properties.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.160) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed
12-15-2021)
§ 152.19 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS.
   (A)   All manufactured housing units must be in a manufactured home housing
park. No dwelling other than a manufactured housing unit shall be located
within the park.
   (B)   A park manager shall live on site.
   (C)   The number of allowed spaces is limited to what is approved on the
final plat.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit a plan for management (management plan)
that: allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation
of the manufactured/mobile home park. Changes to the management plan shall be
approved by the town.
   (E)   Manufactured home parks located adjacent to industrial, commercial or
lower-density residential land uses shall provide screening such as fences or
natural growth along the property boundary lines separating the community from
such adjacent land uses.
   (F)   The size of the manufactured home lot must be suitable for the general
market to be served and must fit the dimensions of manufactured homes
anticipated.
   (G)   Manufactured home spaces must be arranged to permit the safe and
practical placement and removal of manufactured homes.
   (H)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on or
adjacent to each manufactured home space and over flow parking no farther than
150 feet from any dwelling. On street parking is not allowed. The driveway must
be located to allow for convenient access to the manufactured home, and be a
minimum of ten feet wide. The manufactured home lot must be located at least
ten feet from the street that serves it.
   (I)   The total area occupied by a manufactured home and its roofed
accessory building and structures may not exceed 40% of the area of a space.
   (J)   All manufactured homes shall be separated by a minimum of 15 feet.
There shall be a minimum of 15 feet between all attached structures such as
carports, awnings, decks and stairs and any adjacent manufactured home.
   (K)   There shall be a minimum of six feet between detached structures and
any adjacent manufactured home. Detached structures are defined as any
structure that is more than six feet away from any manufactured home.
   (L)   Sites shall have vehicular access to a public street only through the
main entrance(s).
   (M)   No attachments, additions, alterations or modifications to the
exterior walls of a manufactured home are allowed except those approved by the
manufacturer for the specific unit. All other additions, porches, decks, garage
or other add-on attachments must be freestanding and self-supporting with no
structural reliance on the manufactured unit itself.
   (N)   All towing devices, wheels and undercarriage support used solely for
initial transportation of the home shall be removed from the unit and building
site within 30 days of delivery to the site.
   (O)   Applicant shall provide to the town a permit certifying all county,
state and federal standards for septic/sewer requirements have been met.
   (P)   Manufactured/mobile homes:
      (1)   Shall have a pitched roof no less than five vertical inches for
each 12 horizontal inches;
      (2)   Overhangs for eaves on pitched sides shall extend a minimum of 18
inches beyond the adjoining wall and overhangs on gable ends shall extend a
minimum of 12 inches beyond the adjoining wall;
      (3)   A minimum 100 pounds per square foot snow load;
      (4)   Shall have been manufactured no more than 12 months prior to the
date of application;
      (5)   Shall be placed on a permanent continuous foundation; and
      (6)   Steps/stairs used for ingress/egress shall be anchored to a pour on
cement landing.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.200) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.20 SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION FINE SCHEDULE.
 
Violation/Infraction                   Fine
Starting construction without a permit Up to $750 per infraction
 
(Prior Code, § 14.02AppA) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 152.21 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES MR-1 AND MR-2.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of the Multiple-Family Residential Zones,
hereafter referred to as “MR Zone(s),” is to encourage and allow more creative
and imaginative design for land development than is possible under existing
regulations. The zones are intended to provide for the more efficient use of
the land that will result in a more economical development of land,
preservation of natural sites, better amenities and more open space.
   (B)   Permitting procedures. 
      (1)   All land use proposed in MR Zones that require plats, maps and
documents shall comply fully with the requirements laid out in these
regulations. An MR Zone shall be approved only if the town finds the
application meets the purpose and objectives of this section, as well as
applicable standards of the town.
      (2)    The sequence of review and approvals are as follows:
         (a)   Pre-application conference with the town;
         (b)   Planning Commission recommendations; and
         (c)   Town Council review and action.
   (C)   Multiple-Family Residential Zones requirements.
      (1)   Maximum density: four dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Minimum lot size: MR Zones shall have a minimum of two acres.
      (3)   Development height and square footage: no structure in the proposed
development shall exceed 35 feet. The building area footprint for all new
individual single story units shall not be less than 900 square feet of the
building area excluding the building area of any attached garage. The total
living area for all new individual two-story units shall not be less than 1,600
square feet excluding the building area of any attached garage.
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Written documents.
         (a)   A statement describing the planning objectives to be achieved by
the MR Zone through the particular proposed applicant. The statement should
include a description of the character of the proposed development and the
rationale behind the assumptions and choices made by the developer;
         (b)   A statement of how the MR Zones will be financed and the
reasoning by which the feasibility of the MR Zones has been determined;
         (c)   A statement describing the various phases of development and
management of the common open space and or facilities during the initial phase
and following the completion of each phase of the development;
         (d)   A development schedule indicating the approximate date and
duration of construction of each phase; and
         (e)   Size of the parcel, total number and type of dwelling units,
proposed lot coverage, gross net residential densities, total open space,
usable open space, type and amount of non-residential construction and other
studies as required by the town.
      (2)   Services. Both centralized septic/sewer and water systems shall
serve the proposed development. A permit certifying all county, state and
federal standards for septic/sewer requirements have been met. Also see §
152.04, Septic/sewer requirements.
      (3)   Open space requirements. See §
152.18.
         (a)   Landscaping plan. A detailed landscape plan showing the natural
open space, if any, which will remain upon completion of the development, all
existing trees and precise boundaries of additional landscaping. The landscape
plan must include the following:
            1.   Species;
            2.   Container sizes and dimensions;
            3.   Location of all trees, shrubs and ground cover;
            4.   Paving material;
            5.   Street furniture;
            6.   Fencing material; and
            7.   Evidence of an irrigation system.
         (b)   Site plan. A site plan shall include all basic mapping elements
including the following:
            1.   Drainage. Adequate facilities for drainage of surface water;
            2.   Ingress and egress. Adequate facilities for safe and
convenient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, including walks,
driveways, off-street parking areas, off street loading areas and landscape
separations between pedestrian and vehicular ways;
            3.   Play area. Residential and commercial developments shall
provide adequate and safely locate play area for children;
            4.   Protection of existing land uses. The development shall make
adequate provisions to screen and protect the surrounding land uses from
parking illumination, headlights, fumes, heat, noise, blowing papers, and dust
and the visual encroachment of the surrounding land uses; and
            5.   Formation of an incorporate non-profit town-approved state
legal entity. When the Incorporate Non-Profit Association is a part of the MR
Zone the developer shall:
               a.   Create an incorporated non-profit town-approved state legal
entity, which assures exterior maintenance of each unit and the common area.
The applicants shall submit a management plan that establishes:
               i.   Insurance for each unit;
                  ii.   Common area insurance and maintenance;
                  iii.   Roof replacement schedule and roof repair;
                  iv.   Exterior painting schedule;
                  v.   Provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term
capital improvements; and
                  vi.   Means by which such funding will be obtained or
provided.
               b.    Record covenants that automatically make every lot owner a
member, give him or her the right to use the common property and establish his
or her voting rights in the town-approved Homeowners Association (HOA) or an
equivalent legal entity and his or her obligation to pay assessments.
         (c)   Elevations. Typical elevations showing all four sides of any
structure proposed in the in the plan. The elevations should be of sufficient
detail to show building heights, materials, colors, textures and general
design. For commercial projects, conceptual sign plans showing type of sign,
size and location must be included.
         (d)   Floor plans. Floor plans for all buildings shall be submitted
indicating the types of residential and commercial structures proposed.
Multiple-Family Residential Zones MR-1 AND MR-2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 units per acre (max)
2-acre minimum
Central water and septic/sewer
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Legal Description
Planning Objective
Financial Statement
Development Makeup
Density Proposal
Development Schedule
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------
All MR Zones will:
Go through the subdivision review process (DEQ, NRCS, etc).
(Prior Code, § 14.02B) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 2021-19, passed 12-
15-2021)
§ 152.22 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
FOR _______________ SUBDIVISION
FILE NO. _____________
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the ________ day of _______ 20__
by and between the Town Of Star Valley Ranch, hereinafter referred to as
“TOWN”, whose address is 560 Middle Branch Dr. Star Valley Ranch, WY 83127 and
________, hereinafter referred to as “Developer”, whose address is
_______________.
WHEREAS, it is the intent and purpose of the Developer to meet the conditions
of approval for File No. __________ Subdivision to subdivide approximately __
acres into ____ lots as set forth in the Preliminary Plat; and WHEREAS, the
Developer is the sole owner of the identified certain property (see Exhibit A)
located in the Town; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent and purpose of the Developer and the Town to enter
into this Agreement that will guarantee the full and satisfactory completion of
the required Improvements on the Property described in this Agreement and it is
the intent of this Agreement and the parties to satisfy the Improvement
requirements and for the approval of the final plat application by the Town of
Star Valley Ranch and the final plat recordation in the Office of the Lincoln
County Clerk of _______________ Subdivision;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions
contained herein, the parties agree as follows:
Section 1. Definitions
1.1 DEVELOPMENT: The subject of this Agreement, which is designated and
identified as ___________ Subdivision on the Property described in Exhibit A in
the jurisdiction of Lincoln County, Wyoming. This definition shall include any
and all future names or titles for ________________ Subdivision
1.2 IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
located on or off the Property that is associated with this subdivision and
building site developments.
1.3 OWNER/DEVELOPER: means and refers to _____________whose address is
____________ the party that owns and is developing said Property and shall
include and subsequent owner(s) or developer(s) of the Property.
1.4 PROPERTY: means and refers to the identified approximately ____ acres of a
certain parcel(s) of Property located in Lincoln County, Wyoming, as described
in Exhibit A.
Section 2. Planned Improvements. The Developer shall, and at its sole cost and
expense, properly install and complete the following required improvements:
Paved subdivision roadway; Central water system to each lot identified in the
Preliminary Plat for __________ Subdivision; Electrical power to each lot
identified in the Preliminary Plat for _________ Subdivision; Telephone lines
to each lot identified in the Preliminary Plat for __________ Subdivision; and
Surveyor’s lot monuments as set forth in the Preliminary Plat attached hereto
as Exhibit B. Developer agrees that such Improvements shall be installed in
compliance with the Town of Star Valley Ranch Ordinances adopted by the Town or
other agencies responsible for providing services to the Development. Signs:
The Developer understands and agrees to purchase/install street signs prior to
the Town being able to issue a building permit for a dwelling within the
Development. Signs shall be purchased through the Town of Star Valley Ranch to
assure standardization throughout the Town.
Section 3. Sales or building permits. No lot may be offered for sale or sold
(warranty deeds transferred) prior to final plat approval by the Town of Star
Valley Ranch and recording by the Lincoln County Clerk. Also no building
permits shall be issued by the Town until final plat approval and recording.
Section 4. Schedule for Commencement and Completion of the Improvements. The
Developer shall commence construction of the Improvements for _________
Subdivision within two (2) years after the File No. __________ Subdivision
Preliminary Plat approval by the Town of Star Valley Ranch. The Developer will
complete construction of the Improvements within three (3) years after approval
of the Preliminary Plat. If Developer does not commence construction of the
improvements within two (2) years or complete Improvement within three (3)
years of the date of File No. __________ Subdivision Preliminary Plat approval
by the Town of Star Valley Ranch, the preliminary plat approval for File No.
__________ Subdivision will be automatically revoked. At such time, the
Developer must reapply for approval for any development or subdivision
pertaining to File No. __________ Subdivision under the then current Town
subdivision regulations.
Section 5. Control of trash, weeds, dust, erosion, and sedimentation. The
Developer shall be fully responsible for all dust abatement, erosion,
sedimentation, weed, and trash control on the Property required by any Town,
County, State or Federal regulations. Developer shall use best management
practices and industry standards for control. Trash shall be contained at all
times. The responsibilities in this Section shall run with the land and they
shall therefore apply before, during, and until completion of Improvements.
Section 6. Permits. The Developer is responsible for obtaining all right-of-
way, access, excavation, and other permits and approvals required by Town,
County, State, or Federal regulations.
Section 7. Inspections. The Developer’s representatives shall make regular
inspections and maintain control of the Development while it is under
construction. Representatives of the Town shall have the right to enter upon
the Property at any reasonable time to inspect and to determine whether the
Developer is in compliance with this Agreement. The Developer shall permit the
Town and its representatives to enter upon and inspect the Property at
reasonable times. The Developer will not materially deviate from the
Improvements required herein without the prior written approval of the Town,
which approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 8. Final Inspection and Approval of Improvements. The Developer shall
notify the Town when it believes that the Improvements have been fully and
properly completed and shall request final inspection and approval and
acceptance of the Improvements by the Town. At the time of such notification to
the Town, Developer shall submit to Town a set of “as built” plans and
specifications, prepared by its engineer. The Town will provide interim and
final inspection of the Improvements within a reasonable time period after
notification by the Developer of completion and submission of “as built” plans
and specifications. Upon inspection, the Town shall give timely written
acceptance of the Improvements or a written checklist of material deficiencies,
such noted deficiencies shall be specific as to location and shall specify, in
detail, the necessary corrective action to be taken by the Developer. Upon
approval of the final inspection, the Town shall notify developer of its
acceptance of the Improvements.
Section 9. Warranty of the Improvements. The Developer warrants the prompt and
satisfactory correction of all defects and deficiencies, for both materials and
workmanship, in the Improvements to be owned or maintained by Town, if any that
occur or become evident within one year. If such defect or deficiency occurs or
becomes evident during such period, then the Developer shall, within thirty
(30) days after written demand by the Town to do so, correct it or cause it to
be corrected. If the defect or deficiency cannot be reasonably corrected within
thirty (30) days after written demand from the Town, the Developer shall
commence the correction of the deficiency within the thirty (30) day period and
proceed with reasonable diligence to correct the same or cause it to be
corrected.
Section 10. Remedies. In the event the Developer fails to perform any of the
terms, conditions or obligations in this Agreement or has not resolved a defect
or deficiency under this Agreement, the Town, at its option, may exercise any
rights and remedies it may have under law. Furthermore, the Town reserves the
right, in its absolute discretion, to revoke the Developer’s entitlements for
_________ Subdivision. In the event of said revocation, Developer must reapply
for approval for any development or subdivision pertaining to File No.
__________ Subdivision under the then current Town subdivision regulations.
Section 11. Default. If the Developer defaults or fails to fully perform any of
its obligations in accordance with this Agreement, or fails or refuses to
correct any defect or deficiency in the Improvements required by this
Agreement, the Town shall notify the Developer of the specific default or
failing.
Section 12. Maintenance of Lots. Developer hereby agrees that all unsold lots
shall be maintained by the Developer at the Developer’s sole expense.
Section 13. Binding Upon Successors. This Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the parties’ respective heirs, successors, assigns and
personal representatives.
Section 14. Notices. Any written notices required herein shall be deemed
delivered to the addressee when delivered in person on a business day at the
address set forth below or on the third day after being deposited in the United
States mail, for delivery by properly addressed, postage prepaid, certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the address set forth below.
Notices to the Town shall be addressed to, or delivered at, the following
address:
Town of Star Valley Ranch
ATTN: Town Administrator
560 Middle Branch Dr.
Star Valley Ranch WY 83127
Notices to the Developer shall be addressed to, or delivered at, the following
address:
________ ___
ATTN: ____________
____________
Section 15. Indemnification.
A. No Liability for Town Approval. The Developer acknowledges and agrees (1)
that the Town is not, and shall not be, in any way liable for any damages, loss
or injuries whatsoever, including attorney fees, that may be sustained as the
result of the Town’s issuance of any permits, inspections, approvals or
acceptances of the Improvements or use of any portion of the Improvements, and
(2) that the Town’s issuance of any permits, inspections, approvals or
acceptances does not, and shall not, in any way be deemed to insure the
Developer, or any of its heirs, successors, assigns, tenants, or licensees or
any third party, against damage or injury of any kind at any time.
B. Indemnification. Except as provided below, the Developer agrees to, and does
hereby, indemnify the Town, and all of its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, agents and representatives from any and all claims, costs
and liability of every kind and nature that may be asserted at any time against
any such parties for injury or damage received or sustained by any person or
entity in connection with (1) the Town’s review or approval of any plans,
including those for the Improvements, (2) the inspection or issuance of any
approval or acceptance of Improvements, (3) the development, construction,
maintenance or use of any portion of the Improvements and (4) the performance
by the Developer of its obligations under this Agreement and all related
Agreements. The indemnification required herein shall include, but not be
limited to, any costs of defense incurred by the indemnified parties including
attorney fees and expert witness fees.
Section 16. Amendments or Alterations. Any changes, omissions, modifications,
revisions, additions or amendments to this Agreement shall be incorporated by
written instrument, executed and signed by all parties.
Section 17. Severability. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision
of this Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof and this
Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or
unenforceable provisions were omitted.
Section 18. Filing. The Town shall have this Agreement recorded in the Office
of the Lincoln County Clerk.
Section 19. Authority to Execute. The County hereby warrants and represents to
the Developer that the persons executing this Agreement on its behalf have been
properly authorized to do so by the Town of Star Valley Ranch Town Council. The
Developer hereby warrants and represents to the Town (1) that it is the owner
of record of the Property or the owner’s authorized representative, (2) that it
has the right, power, and authority to enter into this Agreement and to agree
to the terms, provisions, and conditions set forth herein and to bind the
subdivision as set forth herein, (3) that all legal action needed to authorize
the execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement have been taken, and
(4) that neither the execution of this Agreement nor the performance of the
obligations assumed by the Developer hereunder will (I) result in a breach or
default under any Agreement to which the Developer is a party or to which it or
the subdivision is bound or (ii) violate any statute, law restriction, court
order, or Agreement to which the Developer or the subdivision is subject.
Section 20. Regulations. The Developer agrees to abide by all regulations, laws
and codes of the Town of Star Valley Ranch.
Section 21. Applicable Law/Venue. The construction, interpretation, and
enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Wyoming. The Courts of the State of Wyoming shall have jurisdiction over this
Agreement and the parties, and the venue shall be the Third Judicial District,
Lincoln County, Wyoming.
Section 22. Insurance. Developer shall procure, and at all times maintain,
general liability insurance to protect from claims for damages because of
negligence or bodily injury, including but not limited to death and damages to
property, all with coverage limits of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). Said insurance will also provide coverage to fulfill the
Developer’s indemnification requirements set forth herein. Upon request,
Developer agrees to provide a certificate of liability insurance to Town
evidencing said limit.
Section 23. Entirety of Agreement. This Agreement sets forth all promises,
inducements, agreements, condition and understandings between Owner/Developer
and Town relative to the subject matter hereof, and there are no promises,
agreements, conditions or understanding, either oral or written, express or
implied, between Owner/Developer and Town, other than as are stated herein. All
Exhibits referenced herein are incorporated in this Agreement as if set forth
in full including all text information in the Exhibits. In the event of any
conflict of terms in this Agreement and any Exhibits, the terms of this
Agreement shall control. Except as herein otherwise provided, no subsequent
alteration, amendment, change or addition to this Agreement shall be binding
upon the parties hereto unless reduced to writing and signed by them or their
successors in interest or their assigns.
Section 24. No Waiver of Town Rights. No waiver of any provision of this
Agreement will be deemed to constitute a waiver of any other provision nor will
it be deemed to constitute a continuity waiver unless expressly provided for;
nor will the waiver of any default under this Agreement be deemed a waiver of
any subsequent default or defaults of the same type. The Town’s failure to
exercise any obligation under this Agreement will not constitute the approval
of any wrongful act by the Developer or the acceptance of any Improvement.
Developer acknowledges that the Town of Star Valley Ranch reserves the right to
revoke all approvals for __________ Subdivision upon failure to comply with
File No. ____________ Subdivision conditions of approval, upon any of the
violations of the Town of Star Valley Ranch town ordinances, or for
misrepresentations or material omissions made to the Town of Star Valley Ranch.
Section 25. Sovereign Immunity. The Town does not waive sovereign immunity by
entering into this Agreement and specifically retains immunity and all defenses
available to it pursuant to law, including government immunity.
Section 26. Effective Date. This Agreement shall become valid and binding only
upon its approval by the Town of Star Valley Ranch Town Council and shall be
effective on the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this Agreement through their duly authorized
representatives have executed this Agreement on the days and dates set out
below and certify that they have read, understood, and agreed to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.
TOWN OF STAR VALLEY RANCH
________________________________ Date: ______________________
Mayor:
DEVELOPER
________________________________ Date: ______________________
Witness my hand and official seal.
(SEAL)
______________________________
MY Commission expires: ________________ Notary Public
EXHIBIT A
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
EXHIBIT B
APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLAT
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
153.01   Authorization, findings, purpose and methods
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   General provisions
   
153.04   Administration
   
153.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the governing body of the town does ordain as
follows.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.010)
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Some areas in the town may be subject to periodic inundation
(flood-prone areas) which could result in loss of life and property, pose
health and safety hazards, disrupt commerce and governmental services, and
cause extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of
which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are increased by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in flood-prone areas which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
      (3)   The town includes alluvial fans, one of which contains numerous
abandoned drainageways and a perennial stream. The parcels occurring on these
features may be subject to alluvial fan flooding.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.020)
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this title to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in flood-prone areas;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas;
      (7)   Provide mapping information for buyers and owners to determine if
property is in a potential flood-prone area; and
      (8)   Provide available information so that persons occupying potential
flood-prone areas can take precautions that minimize potential impacts.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.030)
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this title uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural flood-prone areas, drainageways
and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
flood waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Regulate new construction in flood-prone areas so that it complies
with this title.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.040) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
title the most reasonable application.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood-prone area within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A natural or artificial depression that contains or may contain
under flood conditions a flow of water. They include, but are not limited to,
natural stream channels, abandoned stream channels, irrigation ditches, gullies
and swales.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any natural source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the administrator where the boundaries of the flood-prone, and/or mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related areas having special hazards have been designated in
the appropriate hazard zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any natural source. The term FLOODPLAIN is used as a generic term
for flood-prone.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the town and
the start of construction of any improvements to structures.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this title
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure to be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain
management regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.010) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 153.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this title applies. The title shall apply to all flood-
prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.010)
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard.
      (1)   The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) has completed a re-evaluation of flood hazards in the town and
produced a flood insurance study (FIS) report and flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for the county and incorporated areas. The FIRM and FIS report for the
county which included the town show no known special flood hazard areas to
exist within the corporate limits of the town. Special flood hazard areas are
areas subject to inundation by a flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (base flood). The base flood is the national
standard on which the flood insurance and floodplain management requirements of
the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) are based.
      (2)   Since areas of special flood hazard have not been identified, water
surface elevations have not been provided, nor has sufficient data identifying
the floodway been provided by any source, the town obtained, reviewed and
reasonably utilized data available from federal, state and other sources.
      (3)   The town considers the potential area of special flood hazard as
occurring within Alluvial Fan Flood Overlay areas.
      (4)   Land features within the Alluvial Fan Flood Overlay areas that the
town recognizes to have a greater potential of becoming floodways include these
features and nearby areas:
         (a)   The natural channels of the north, middle and south branches of
Cedar Creek;
         (b)   The natural and artificial channels of Prater and Green Creeks;
and
         (c)   Traces of abandoned drainageways of Cedar Creek.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.020)
   (C)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be altered or have
its use changed without compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.030)
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This title is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.040) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
   (E)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this title,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.050)
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer or liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this title is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is
based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions greater
floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes. This title does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create liability on the part of
the town or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this title or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.060) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 153.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Town Administrator is
hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this title and other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.010)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall, if requested, assist in the
delineation of areas having special flood hazards.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following for all areas lying partially or
wholly within identified flood-prone areas:
         (a)   Assist, if requested, in the delineation of the limits of the
areas having special flood hazards;
         (b)   Provide, if requested, information concerning present uses and
occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or related erosion areas;
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, for the
determination of applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas
having special flood hazards identified on a FHBM or FIRM, any certificates of
floodproofing, and information on the elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the level of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, and include whether or not such structures
contain a basement, and if the structure has been floodproofed, the elevation
(in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure was floodproofed;
         (d)    Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private
firms which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudslide
(i.e. mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring
communities with respect to same in order to prevent aggravation of existing
hazards;
         (e)   Upon occurrence, notify the FEMA in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In order that all
FHBMs and FIRMs accurately represent the community’s boundaries, include within
such notification a copy of the map of the community suitable for reproduction,
clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for which the
community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority;
         (f)   Submit an annual report to FEMA concerning the community’s
participation in the program, including, but not limited to the development and
implementation of floodplain management measures;
         (g)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this title;
         (h)   Review with the assistance of the Town Planning Commission
permit application to determine whether proposed construction or other
development, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably
safe from flooding;
         (i)   Coordinate with the Town Planning Commission the review,
approval or denial of all applications for building permits or other
developments as required by adoption of this title;
         (j)   Review applications and plans for proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or
local governmental agencies;
         (k)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the Alluvial Fan Flood Overlay (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the
Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation; and
         (l)   Implement the components of FEMA’s community rating system such
that the property owners can take advantage of insurance discounts.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.020)
   (C)   Permit procedures. Applications for a building permit or development
plans for parcels wholly or partially within the Alluvial Fan Flood Overlay
shall include the following additional items:
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions
and elevation of natural and artificial drainageways, proposed landscape
alterations, existing and proposed structures; and
      (2)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse, abandoned
channel or natural drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.030)
   (D)   Variance procedures. The existing process for obtaining a building
permit within the boundaries of the town have been established and include a
process for hearing and rendering judgment on requests for variances.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.040) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 153.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all flood-prone areas, the following provisions
are required for all new construction and substantial improvements.
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to minimize
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   In addition, all new construction or substantial improvements shall
be located and constructed so as to minimize intrusion of said construction
into a drainageway and meet the requirements of §
153.01(D).
(Prior Code, § 11.05.010)
   (B)   Standards for subdivision proposals. For proposed subdivisions falling
wholly and partially within the Alluvial Fan Flood Overlay area or its
extension toward the Salt River, shall include the following additional
information:
      (1)   A statement that the subdivision proposal and master plan are
consistent with all aspects of this title;
      (2)   The subdivision proposal shall have drainage easements along
potential floodways and adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
and
      (3)   The subdivision proposal shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.020) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this title by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $750 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.010) (Ord. 2011-09, passed 1-1-2012)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Establishment of zoning districts and district overlays
   
154.003   Official zoning district map
   
154.004   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
154.005   Reserved
   
154.006   Home occupations
   
154.007   Issuance of conditional use permits
   
154.008   Conflict
   
154.009   Enforcement and fines
   
154.010   Definitions
Zoning Districts
   
154.025   Purposes and intent of zoning districts
   
154.026   Zoning district overlays
Rezone Procedure
   
154.040   Request for rezone
   
154.041   Application requirements
   
154.042   Limitation
   
154.043   Fee schedule
   
154.044   Rezone procedures
   
154.045   Rezone flow chart
General Regulations
   
154.060   Purpose
   
154.061   Scope
   
154.062   Bulk regulations
   
154.063   Compliance with other applicable statutes, ordinances or
administrative rules
   
154.064   Water protection
   
154.065   Hazardous substances, groundwater protection
   
154.066   Fences
   
154.067   Reserved
   
154.068   Traffic visibility at corners
   
154.069   Vehicular parking space and access
   
154.070   Sidewalks
   
154.071   Roads and streets
   
154.072   Driveways
   
154.073   Signs
   
154.074   Outside lighting
   
154.075   Temporary dwellings
   
154.076   Dwelling regulations
   
154.077   Drive-in and drive-through businesses
   
154.078   Special use (prior and grandfathered)
   
154.079   Nonconforming use
   
154.080   Personal utilities
   
154.081   Public and community facilities
   
154.082   Reserved
   
154.083   Variance request and appeal procedures
Commercial/Community Facilities Zone
   
154.095   Purpose
   
154.096   Building types
   
154.097   Uses
   
154.098   Dimensional and bulk standards; commercial buildings
   
154.099   Dimensional and bulk standards; community buildings
   
154.100   Additional development standards
Single-Family Residential Zone
   
154.115   Purpose
   
154.116   Allowed uses and building types
   
154.117   General requirements
   
154.118   Dimensional and bulk standards; single-family dwellings
   
154.119   Single-family residential design standards and guidelines
   
154.120   Other standards
Private Recreational Zone
   
154.130   Purpose
   
154.131   Building types
   
154.132   Dimensional and bulk standards
   
154.133   Other standards
Public Facilities Zone
   
154.145   Purpose
   
154.146   Uses
   
154.147   Dimensional and bulk standards
   
154.148   Other standards
Multiple-Family Residential Zone MR-1
   
154.160   Purpose
   
154.161   Allowed uses and building types
   
154.162   General requirements
   
154.163   Dimensional and bulk standards
   
154.164   Home occupations
   
154.165   Other standards
Multiple-Family Residential Zone MR-2
   
154.180   Purpose
   
154.181   Allowed uses and building types and uses
   
154.182   General requirements
   
154.183   Dimensional and bulk standards
   
154.184   Home occupations
   
154.185   Other standards
Planned Development Zone; Residential and Mixed Use
   
154.220   Purpose
   
154.221   Where permitted
   
154.222   Allowed uses and building types
   
154.223   General requirements
   
154.224   Dimensional and bulk standards
   
154.225   Other standards
Plat Amendments
   
154.240   Request for amending a plat
   
154.241   Application requirements
   
154.242   Limitations
   
154.243   Fee and deposit schedule
   
154.244   Procedures for amending a plat
   
154.245   Surveyor requirements and responsibilities
   
Appendix A: Permitted and Conditional Uses in Commercial Zones
   
Appendix B: Zoning Map
   
Appendix C: Lots or Lots Approved for Special Use
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter have been enacted in order to protect
and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the
town. The purpose of this chapter is to establish the zoning districts and
zoning district overlays that regulate the type and intensity of land uses
within the town. Zoning district standards and dimensional limitations are
established in order to:
      (1)   Ensure the protection of the desired community character of each
zoning district;
      (2)   Promote adequate housing, business and recreational opportunities
within the town;
      (3)   Promote the stability of existing land uses and protect them from
harmful influences and intrusions;
      (4)   Ensure that uses and structures are compatible with adjoining
properties and the natural beauty of the town’s setting; and
      (5)   Prevent or mitigate negative impacts of certain uses within the
zoning districts.
   (B)   The general goals of this chapter are:
      (1)   To encourage the preservation of open space wherever possible;
      (2)   To encourage beneficial land development that permits an efficient
layout and minimizes costs of roads, utilities and other public and private
infrastructures;
      (3)   To provide more rapid and efficient delivery of public safety and
school transportation services; and
      (4)   To provide private property owners a method to realize the inherent
development value of their real property for substantial benefit to the
environment, to achieve the purposes of this chapter, and to preserve and
enhance property values within the town.
   (C)    Special use permit proposed usage not addressed in this chapter shall
require a special use permit by the Planning Commission. All applicable
documents required by the Planning Commission will be specified at the Planning
and Zoning meeting prior to application submittal.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.010)
§ 154.002 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT OVERLAYS.
   (A)   Division of town into zoning districts. The total incorporated area of
the town is hereby divided into the minimum number of zoning districts
necessary to achieve compatibility of uses and character within each zoning
district, to implement the comprehensive plan, and to achieve the purposes of
these land development regulations.
   (B)   Zoning districts established. There are hereby established zoning
districts for the town as follows:
      (1)   Single-Family Residential Zone;
      (2)   Multiple-Family Residential - 1 Zone;
      (3)   Multiple-Family Residential - 2 Zone;
      (4)   Commercial/Community Facilities Zone;
      (5)   Private Recreation Zone;
      (6)   Public Facilities Zone; and
      (7)   Planned Development Zone - Residential and Mixed Use.
   (C)   Zoning District Overlays established. There are hereby established
zoning district overlays for the town as follows:
      (1)   Wellhead Protection Overlay;
      (2)   Ground Water Protection Overlay;
      (3)   Wildfire Hazard Overlay; and
      (4)   Alluvial Fan Flooding Overlay.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.020) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.003 OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   Zoning districts established by these land development regulations
(hereafter “regulations”) are bounded and defined as shown on the town official
zoning district map (hereinafter “zoning map”), available at the town offices,
and is available for inspection during normal business hours. The specific
zoning map adopted and approved shall bear the ordinance number and date by
which it was adopted and approved.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.030)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The following rules shall be used to determine the precise location of
any zoning district boundary shown on the zoning map.
   (B)   Boundaries following municipal boundaries. Boundary lines shown as
following or approximately following town boundaries shall be construed as
following such boundaries.
      (1)   Boundaries following streets or alleys. Boundary lines shown as
following or approximately following streets or alleys shall be construed as
following the centerline of such streets or alleys.
       (2)   Boundaries following section lines, platted lot lines, park or
forest service’s boundaries. Boundary lines shown as following, or
approximately following, section lines, platted lot lines, park or forest
service boundaries, or other property lines as shown on the zoning map shall be
construed as following such lines.
      (3)   Parallel boundaries. Boundaries shown as separated from, and
parallel or approximately parallel to, any of the features identified in this
section, shall be construed to be parallel to such features and at such
distances as shown on the zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.040)
§ 154.005 RESERVED.
§ 154.006 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   In lieu of any existing restrictions or allowances, home occupations are
allowed as a land use within a dwelling when all of the following conditions
are met.
   (A)   All business activities shall take place inside the dwelling.
   (B)   Any retail use shall be incidental to the home occupation.
   (C)   Allowed vehicles: passenger cars and light trucks.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.055) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.007 ISSUANCE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Conditional use permit shall be approved by the Town Council.
   (B)    In order to recommend approval of a conditional use permit to the
Town Council the Planning Commission must find that all of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The proposed use will not cause significant traffic hazards or
congestion;
      (2)   Adjacent land and nearby businesses will not be permanently
affected adversely by traffic generation, noise, glare or other nuisances;
      (3)   Frequent promotional sales activities outside a building shall be
separated by distance or screening from adjacent residentially zoned land;
      (4)   Wholesale businesses shall be allowed only if they do not unduly
interfere with retail sales and services in the commercial zone;
      (5)   The use is consistent with the purposes of the zoning ordinances
and the permissible uses of the zoning district; and
      (6)   The proposed use is not in conflict with the town’s Master Plan.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.060)
§ 154.008 CONFLICT.
   (A)   In the event that the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with
one another or if the provisions of this chapter conflict with provisions found
in other adopted regulations of the town, the more restrictive provision will
prevail.
   (B)   When the provisions of this chapter impose a greater restriction than
imposed by any easement, covenant, deed restriction or private agreement, the
provisions of this chapter are deemed superior.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.070)
§ 154.009 ENFORCEMENT AND FINES.
   (A)   Enforcement. The town shall enforce, by any proceeding at law or in
equity, all provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Remedial action may require removal of structures or improvements
to property that are in violation. Failure to remove the structure or
improvements, if directed to do so by the town, shall be an infraction.
      (2)   The town shall issue written notifications of infractions or
violations resulting in fines. The town at its sole discretion may issue
warnings instead of citations as it deems proper.
      (3)   Each day, starting on the thirty-first day following the date of
the notification by certified mail that an infraction exists shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (B)   Fine schedule. 
      (1)   The following infractions by owners, employees of owners or agents
of owners within the town shall result in fines.
 
Violation/Infraction                             Fine
Failure to comply with the code by state statute Up to the maximum allowable
per infraction
 
      (2)   In addition to enforce any of said provisions, including the
defense of any said provisions, the town shall be entitled to recover its legal
fees and expenses in the event that a court shall determine that an owner has
committed one or more violations of said requirements or to restrain a
violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.090)
§ 154.010 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are defined.
When not inconsistent with the context, the present tense includes the future.
Words used in the singular number include the plural number.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010)
   (B)   Undefined words. Any word not defined shall be interpreted within its
common and approved usage.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020)
   (C)   Definitions of words. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESS CORNER. A corner formed by the intersection of a street right-of-
way and a fully developed driveway to an off-street parking area.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A supplementary building or structure on the same lot
as the principal building, or part of the principal building, occupied by or
devoted exclusively to an accessory use. Such use shall not include any
building used for dwelling, residential or lodging purposes, or sleeping
quarters for human beings.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate
to, and devoted exclusively to the main use of the land or buildings, but not
including uses considered accessory buildings or accessory structures.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND. Land used strictly for cultivation of crops or for
animal husbandry, held in tracts or parcels no smaller than ten acres in area.
      ALLEY. A narrow right-of-way lying behind parcels that is used as a
service road, access to garages, utilities or as a pedestrian way.
      ALTERED or ALTERATIONS. Any interior or exterior modification, remodel,
repair or addition that involves any support elements of any structure,
building or dwelling including but not limited to bearing walls, columns,
beams, post, girders and changes in type of roofing material.
      AMENDED PLAT. A change in the plat of an approved or recorded subdivision
that affects the layout of any street or area reserved for public use or
creates any additional lots.
      ANNEXATION AGREEMENT. A contract between the sub-divider or developer and
the town that sets forth the rights, duties and obligations of all parties
regarding the annexation of a subdivision or development into the town.
      APARTMENT BUILDING. A dwelling designed for three or more housing units
with separate housekeeping, cooking and bathroom facilities for each apartment.
Buildings are also known as, but not limited to, triplex (three housing units),
quadplex (four housing units), garden apartments or townhouses.
      APPEALS BOARD. The Star Valley Ranch Town Council.
      APPURTENANCES. The visible, functional, or ornamental objects accessory
to and part of buildings, such as: chimneys, flag poles, cupolas, spires, or
antennas.
      BLOCK. A group of lots surrounded by streets. It may include an alley
separating lots adjacent to streets.
      BLOCK CORNER. The lot located at the intersection of the street rights-
of-way forming two edges of the block.
      BLOCK LENGTH. The longest dimension of a block as measured from the outer
lot property lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-848.png]
 
      BLOCK WIDTH. The shortest dimension of a block as measured from the outer
lot property lines.
      BUFFER AREA. A strip of land separating two land uses that is planted
with vegetation and may include a berm.
      BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattel or
property of any kind. BUILDINGS shall include awnings; eaves to the drip line;
and attached decks and porch(es) with or without a roof.
      BUILDING AREA. The total exterior framing area taken on a horizontal
plane at the largest floor level of a building or an accessory building
exclusive of unroofed porches, terraces, patios and steps, and of awnings and
nonpermanent canopies. (See BUILDING COVERAGE, IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE.)
      BUILDING COVERAGE. The area of a lot covered by principal and accessory
buildings, porches, decks. (See BUILDING AREA, IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE.)
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lowest elevation
of the ground next to the building to the highest point of the roof (for flat
roofs, to the deck line), but not including chimneys, antennas, steeples and
other similar non-inhabitable structures or portions of structures. (See
illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-850.png]
 
      BUILDING SITE. An area upon which the developer proposes to erect or
construct a building or make improvements to render the property suitable for
the erection of a building, together with the surrounding land which is
intended to be used in conjunction with such building or improvements.
      BULB. See CUL-DE-SAC.
      CLUSTER HOUSING. A planned subdivision where detached dwellings are
located in close proximity to each other and share common open space, including
recreational areas and parking.
      COMMERCIAL. A business or building that provides goods or services with
the intent of making a profit exclusive of non-profit and government
organizations.
      COMMISSION. The Town of Star Valley Ranch Planning Commission.
      COMMONS. An area for the use of the public or for all owners of a defined
area.
      COMMUNITY BUILDING. Buildings open to the public (such as private and
public schools, churches, museums, meeting halls and libraries) owned by
government, quasi-governmental, religious and service organizations.
      CONTIGUOUS PROPERTY. Lots of property sharing at least one common
boundary. Lot boundaries separated by easements or public rights-of-way are
considered to be contiguous.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Star Valley Ranch.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A circular enlargement of a dead-end street that allows the
turning of vehicles without the need to back up. It consists of two curves that
define its size.
      DEAD-END STREET. A street that has only one point of vehicular ingress/
egress; it usually includes a turn-around at its terminus.
      DECK, AT GRADE. A deck that shall not exceed one foot above existing or
proposed grade at any level.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart, acceptance and confirmation by the Town
Council of land or an interest in land for use by the public.
      DEVELOPER. A person who subdivides or proposes to subdivide land, whether
as an owner or an agent of an owner.
      DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A contract between the sub-divider or developer
and the town that sets forth the rights, duties and obligations of all parties
regarding the development of a subdivision or tract of land located within the
town.
      DOG RUN. An outdoor fenced area designated to confine household pets
while providing an adequate exercise area for animal(s) and may contain a
shelter.
      DRIVE-IN. Any commercial use that by the way of site layout or building
design encourages or permits patrons to remain in their vehicle while receiving
goods or services.
      DRIVE-THROUGH. See DRIVE-IN.
      DRIVEWAY. The area on private or public property where vehicles are
operated, parked or allowed to stand.
      DRIVEWAY APPROACH. A length of street right-of-way that provides access
to a driveway or driveway apron.
      DRIVEWAY APRON. The area, construction or improvement between the edge of
the street and the back edge of sidewalk, proposed sidewalk line, or a line ten
feet in from the street right-of-way that provides ingress and egress for
vehicles from the alley, street or roadway to a definite area of the private
property, which includes, but is not limited to, driveways, loading/unloading
areas, drop-off/pickup areas.
      DRIVEWAY WIDTH. The width of driveway apron or driveway at the edge of
the street right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-852.png]
 
      DUPLE X. A building consisting of two separate housing units typically
side-by-side, each with a separate entrance.
      DWELL ING. A structure providing permanent, complete living
accommodations.
      DWELLING HEIGHT. Building height.
      EARTH TONE(S). A color scheme that draws from a color palette of whites,
browns, tans, grays, greens and some reds. The colors in an earth tone scheme
are muted and flat in an emulation of the natural colors found in dirt and
rocks. For the purpose of these performance standards this definition will also
include muted blues and yellows.
      EASEMENT. The right of a utility, public or non-profit agency,
organization or association to use or cross private or public land for the
purpose(s) of providing services, access or preservation. The terms of the
EASEMENT shall be on file with the County Clerk.
      EFFICIENCY UNIT. A small apartment consisting typically of a combination
living room and bedroom area, a bathroom and kitchenette.
      EXISTING BUILDING. A building existing in whole or whose foundations are
complete, and whose construction is being diligently pursued on the effective
date of this chapter.
      FAMILY. An individual or a collective number of individuals living
together in one house under one head, whose relationship is of a permanent and
distinct domestic character. However, this shall not include any society, club,
fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, combine, federation, group, coterie,
occupants of a counseling house, lodging house or hotel, or organization which
is not a recognized religious order, nor include a group of individuals whose
association is temporary or seasonal in character or nature.
      FENCE. Any permanent wall or structure, including enclosed dog runs, more
than 24 inches in height, erected or maintained for the purpose of enclosing,
partitioning, screening, restricting access to or decorating the lot, building,
structure, or yard or any portion thereof; specifically excluded are fences
that are erected or maintained for construction purposes as outlined in §
150.060.
      FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street from which primary
pedestrian access to public streets and sidewalks is made.
      FRONTLOADED GARAGE. An accessory building or a portion of a residential,
commercial, or community building that is constructed for parking of motor
vehicles where the doors for the entry and exit of a motor vehicle faces the
street, or front yard.
      FULL-CUTOFF (FCO). A light fixture which cuts off all upward transmission
of light.
      FULLY SHIELDED. A light fixture with housing or attachment thereto which
prevents a line of sight to the bulb when viewed from another property and
which prevents a line of sight to any part of the light source at or above a
horizontal plane running through the lowest portion of the fixture.
      GARAGE. An enclosed structure on three (3) or more sides that is built
next to or attached to a house with the primary use of parking or storing
vehicles.
      GLARE. The discomfort experienced by an observer with a direct line of
sight to a light source which often results in annoyance, discomfort or loss of
visual performance causing visual impairment.
      GRADE. The slope of a road or street expressed as a percentage.
      GREENS. A buildable upland open space which is a manicured lawn, garden,
passive-use-park, with or without trees, a similar use, or combination of uses.
      GREENBELT. A landscaped or natural area for purposes of aesthetics and
for purposes of a buffer area.
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any material defined as a hazardous substance under
federal or state statutes.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant of the
dwelling unit. Said occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character of the
dwelling and the property.
      HOUSING UNIT. A house, apartment, mobile home, group of rooms, or single
room occupied as a separate living quarter (or if vacant, intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter). SEPARATE LIVING QUARTERS are those in
which the occupants live and eat separately from any other persons in the
building and which have direct access from the outside of the building or
through a common hall.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE. The area of a lot which results in surface
water runoff with a runoff curve number of 95 or greater, and includes any
cover on or over the ground which is a building, structure, driveway, patio,
paved or gravel street/drive/parking lot surface, lined pond, swimming pool.
RUNOFF CURVE NUMBER, as used here, is as defined and calculated by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service, United States Department of Agriculture. (See
BUILDING AREA, BUILDING COVERAGE, BUILDING ENVELOPE.) Impervious surfaces are
mainly artificial structures such as pavements (roads, sidewalks, driveways and
parking lots) that are covered by impenetrable materials such as asphalt,
concrete, brick, stone and rooftops.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE. A septic tank, seepage tile, sewage disposal system or
any other sewage treatment device that serves only one building.
      LIGHT TRESPASS. Light projected onto a property from a fixture not
located on that property.
      LOAD BEARING. A structural element that is capable of supporting a
structural load (weight and/or stress) and conducting this load to a foundation
structure that supports and transmits the load to the underlying soil.
      LOOP STREET. Circular shaped street that has a single egress/ingress
point and provides access to multiple residential units.
      LOT. A legally recorded piece of land with defined boundaries as shown on
a subdivision plan, map, plat or described in a recorded deed. It may be in its
entirety a tax lot or be one of several lots within a tax lot.
      LOT CORNER. A lot at the intersection of two streets.
      MAINTENANCE. A recurring activity with the goal of preserving the
building or structure in its original condition so as to prolong its useful
life.
      MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections which in the traveling mode is eight body feet (2,438 body mm) or more
in width or 40 body feet (12,192 body mm) or more in length or, when erected on
site, is 320 or more square feet (30 m squared), and which is built on a
permanent chassis, and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein:
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this paragraph, except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Secretary of the U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). MOBILE HOME
shall mean MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME.
      MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK. A use which is a parcel of land under the
control of a person upon which three or more manufactured/mobile homes are
located on a continual non-recreational basis.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. Any establishment having a fixed place of business where
massages are administered for pay, including but not limited to massage
parlors, sauna baths and steam baths. This definition shall not be construed to
include a hospital, nursing home, medical clinic, or the office of a physician,
surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or physical therapist duly licensed by the
state, nor barber shops or beauty salons in which massages are administered
only to the hands, feet, scalp, face, neck or shoulders. This definition shall
not be construed to include the practices of registered massage therapists.
      MASTER LOT. A lot of land or adjacent lots of land under a single
ownership as of the date of adoption of this chapter.
      MASTER PLAN. The plan adopted by the Town Council describing town goals,
objectives and projects.
      MASTER STREET PLAN. A map showing the desired street network to be
implemented during the future development of areas within and adjacent to the
town as adopted by the town council.
      MAY. The choice to act or not; it is discretionary (see also MUST, SHALL
and SHOULD).
      MAYOR. The chief elected executive officer of the Town of Star Valley
Ranch.
      MIXED USE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A single unified development that
incorporates the planned integration of commercial and residential land uses.
      MODULAR HOME. Prefabricated home that consists of multiple sections
called modules. Module sections are constructed at off-site facilities, and
then the prefabricated sections are completed on the site determined for use.
MODULAR HOMES are built the same and considered the same as a stick-built home.
Material for modular and stick built homes are the same. Modular homes do not
have axles or metal frames. MODULAR HOMES must be built to building
requirements of the town.
      MOTOR HOME. Self-propelled vehicle built on a motor vehicle chassis and
designed to serve as self-contained living quarters for recreational purposes.
      MUST. A mandatory directive. The word "MUST" is always mandatory and not
merely permissive, (see also MAY, SHALL and SHOULD).
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING STRUCTURE. A structure or building lawfully
constructed that does not conform to the requirements of the area in which it
is situated and existed before the effective date of this chapter or obtained
by variance.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Structure, building, lot, premise or land lawfully
occupied by a use that does not conform to the regulations of the area in which
it is situated and lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or
obtained by variance.
      OPEN SPACE. An area set aside with the intention of preserving and
enhancing natural or improved park and recreational areas.
      OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES. Outside electrically powered illuminating
devices, outdoor lighting or reflective surfaces, lamps and similar devices,
permanently installed or portable, used for illumination or advertisement. Such
devices shall include, but are not limited to, search, spot, and flood lights
for buildings and structures, security, recreational areas, parking lot,
landscape, billboard and other sign (advertising or other), street lighting,
product display area, building overhangs and open canopies lighting.
      OUTDOOR RECREATION PARKS. Uses which are public or private playgrounds,
pocket parks, nature areas, natural areas, ball fields, open space preserves,
arboretums, gardens, beaches, and so on but not including facilities designed
for overnight or camping use.
      OWNERSHIP. The proprietor of the land who is a natural person,
partnership, corporation, or other legal entity, or government, or combination
of any of them.
      PEDESTRIAN COURT. Consists of houses facing a central green space with
vehicular access provided by rear alleys or local streets.
      PLAT. A map, drawn to scale, showing the divisions of a piece of land.
      PRIVATE STREET. A vehicular access way shared by and serving two or more
lots, which is not dedicated to the public and is not publicly maintained.
      PROPERTY LINE FENCE. A fence along the outside perimeter of a legally
described parcel.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage system, road curb, gutter sidewalk, off-
street parking area, sewer or water system or any other facility for which the
town may assume responsibility, or which may affect improvements which are
presently the responsibility of the town.
      LOT MEASUREMENTS. See illustration:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-854.png]
 
         (a)   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoints of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the front property line and rearmost points
of the rear property line.
         (b)   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the parallel side property lines
at each side of the lot. In determining LOT WIDTH of odd-shaped lots, if the
lot abuts a curving street and, as a result, the side property lines are not
parallel, the measurement of the width shall be at the front yard setback line.
In determining LOT WIDTH of other odd-shaped lots, the width shall be the
average of three measurements taken perpendicular to the lot depth line at one-
quarter, one-half and three-quarter intervals of the distance along that line.
      PARKING ACCESS. Access to off street parking by means of a driveway,
driveway apron or alley.
      PARKING SPACE. One unit of parking area provided for the parking of one
vehicle.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association,
organization, trust, company or other legal entity, or a local unit of
government or other political subdivision of the state, or a state or state
agency.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES. Events such as garage sales, yard sales,
basement sales, auctions or other similar events where personal property is
offered for sale.
      PERSONAL UTILITIES. A functional device or system that supplements
services that are provided by a public utility in our area, by the town, or by
the homeowner, e.g. secondary hot water supply, for personal use. These
devices/systems include: solar; wind; sewer; and water that would serve
residential household uses. PERSONAL UTILITIES do not include similar devices/
systems that would serve businesses or commercial purposes.
      PLAZA. Either an open public space facing onto one or more streets or a
complex of commercial uses or buildings facing onto a shared parking area.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A use that is the main building or structure on a lot
designed to meet the primary, dominant, or declared intent of or used for the
primary, dominant, or declared purposes of the occupant.
      PRIVATE ROAD/STREET. A street which is not public and which services more
than one dwelling or business. Private streets shall not include driveways to a
single dwelling or business or accessory buildings when the driveway is located
on the same parcel of land as the serviced structure.
      PROPERTY LINE. The outside perimeter of a legally described lot of land
(see illustration above for lot measurements).
         (a)   FRONT PROPERTY LINE. The lot boundary or line which faces the
major street or as specified in the zoning area.
         (b)   REAR PROPERTY LINE. The lot boundary or line opposite and most
distant from the front property line.
         (c)   SIDE PROPERTY LINE. The lot boundary other than the front
property line or the rear property line.
      PUBLIC UTILITY.  
         (a)   Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board
fully authorized to furnish, under federal, state or municipal regulations,
electricity, gas, steam, communications, telegraph, transportation, water or
sanitary or storm water sewerage facilities to the public.
         (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, communication tower facilities
are not included in the definition of a PUBLIC UTILITY.
      REPAIR. An occasional activity designed to return a damaged or
deteriorated component of a structure or building to its pre-damage or pre-
deteriorated condition. Two degrees of repair are recognized: minor REPAIRS
wherein non-load bearing components of the building or structure are replaced
or modified. Major REPAIRS is an alteration wherein a load-bearing component of
the building or structure is partially or completely replaced or modified.
      RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A residential development that promotes
more efficient use of space and infrastructure, by encouraging a variety of
residential dwelling types and lot sizes.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated and publicly owned for use as a street or
for other public purposes.
      SALE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership in land, including a
contract of sale, whether by deed, contract, plat or other agreement.
      SETBACK. The horizontal distance from an applicable property line within
which no building or structure can be placed except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
      SEX-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Establishments that provide adult entertainment of
a sexual nature such as adult motion picture theaters, adult mini motion
picture theaters, adult paraphernalia/novelty stores and non-therapeutic
massage parlors.
      SHALL. A mandatory directive. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not
merely permissive (see also MAY, MUST and SHOULD).
      SHARED PARKING. A parking area established to meet in whole or in part
the parking requirements of adjacent commercial, residential and/or community
buildings.
      SHOULD. A discretionary obligation: it is desirable and recommended but
not necessary (see also MAY, MUST and SHOULD).
      SIGN. A structure upon which is displayed any words, numbers, letters,
figures, emblems, symbols, designs or trademarks by which any message or image
is afforded public visibility from out-of-doors on behalf of and for the
benefit of any product, place, activity, individual, firm, corporation,
institution, profession, association, business or organization.
         (a)   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that is physically located on a
different lot than the lot on which the advertised business, service, activity,
event, product or organization is located.
         (b)   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that is physically located on the lot
in which the advertised business, service activity, event, product or
organization is located.
         (c)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is intended to be displayed for a
limited period of time to advertise a special event, activity, political
campaign, sale or rent of real property, sale of personal property, or other
similar purpose.
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE. A designated area intended to maintain
the country atmosphere of the town which restricts lots to one single-family
detached home per lot, one garage (attached or detached) per lot, and one
accessory building per lot. Lots can only be used for household purposes.
      SPECIAL USE (PRIOR AND GRANDFATHERED). A use that does not conform to the
zoning requirements of the area in which it is situated, existing before the
effective date of this chapter and planned for permanent continuation of the
use.
      SPITE STRIP. Any strip of land located within or adjacent to a
subdivision the primary purpose of which is to allow the owner or developer of
the subdivision to control access to a dedicated street or other public
facility.
      SPOTLIGHT. A light fixture or bulb which projects light in a specific
direction in a narrow beam, typically 45 degrees or less.
      STANDARD DRAWINGS AND ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS. The town Standard
Drawings and Engineering Specifications as adopted by ordinance.
      STICK-BUILT. A structure constructed entirely or largely on-site that is
built on the site which is intended for occupancy upon its completion.
      STOOP or PORCH. A platform, entrance stairway or small veranda at a
building door.
      STORAGE CONTAINER. Any metal receptacle or enclosure used in storage,
packaging, and transportation, including shipping, and may also be known as
Conex boxes, cargo containers, sea vans, dry boxes, storage containers, or
freight containers.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
above floor grade and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no
floor above it then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
A full STORY shall have a vertical separation of at least eight feet floor to
ceiling at all places. A half STORY shall be the upper-most story of a building
and has one or more walls which are part the roof with at least an eight-foot
high ceiling.
      STREET. A town street as shown on maps certifying the same or a county
road as shown on maps certifying the same to the county.
         (a)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. Any street designated as a numbered county,
state or federal route.
         (b)   TOWN ARTERIAL. A town street that provide a means of travel
between distant parts of town or to destination areas, such as golf courses,
public buildings, or commercial centers, and access to which by lesser streets
is controlled stop signs to minimize interference to through traffic.
         (c)   COLLECTOR. A town street that provides a link between local
streets and arterials and allows for the movement of through traffic in
neighborhoods. It is identified by having an average of 500 vehicle trips per
day as determined by the land use, number of lots served, and Average Daily
Trips (ADT) for that land use as specified by the Trip Generation Table in
Appendix D, or by providing access to a major community destination, such as a
country club, maintenance facility, commercial center, or park. COLLECTORS are
designed so as not to disrupt the activities and land uses they serve.
         (d)   LOCAL STREET. A town street that provides direct access to and
connections between individual residences, businesses, minor community
facilities and other land uses within a neighborhood. They link individual
properties to the collector and arterial street network. A LOCAL STREET is for
use by property owners, the general public and service vehicles such as trash
trucks, delivery trucks and snowplows.
         (e)   PRIMITIVE ROAD. A single or two lane street providing direct
access to an undeveloped area, individual residential property, ranch,
recreational or scenic area. This type of road is usually private and when a
public right-of-way, it is not usually maintained for general traffic purpose.
         (f)   “T” INTERSECTION. One in which a vehicle must stop and turn
either to the right or to the left rather than proceeding forward in a straight
line.
      STREET STANDARDS. The cross sections and construction standards for
typical street sections, as set forth in the town standard drawings and
engineering specifications.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected or placed with a fixed location
on the ground or affixed to something having a fixed location on the ground,
except, structure shall not include automobiles, trucks, trailer, hunting
blinds, fences, hedges, sidewalks, driveways, gardens or tents.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more lots, for the purpose
of sale or development, including any re-subdivision of land.
      SUPERMARKET. Also called a grocery store in some parts of North America,
is a self-service store offering a wide variety of food and household
merchandise, organized into departments.
      TERRACE. An engineering term that means a raised embankment with the top
leveled, or a relatively level step constructed on the face of a graded slope
for drainage and maintenance purposes.
      TOWN. The Town of Star Valley Ranch, a Wyoming municipality.
      TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The Town of Star Valley Ranch Chief Operations
Officer.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town of Star Valley Ranch Town Council.
      TOWNHOUSE. A housing unit attached to any number of other housing units
commonly side by side, each of which typically has two floors, each with their
own separate entrances and owner.
      TRAILER. A vehicle, which may be drawn or pulled on a highway by a
powered unit.
      TURN-AROUND. A part of a street that is unobstructed by parking and that
allows for a safe change of direction for vehicles.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed,
arranged or intended to be occupied or used, or for which it is maintained.
      USED or OCCUPIED. The physical presence of a person to use a structure
and includes the words “intended,” “designed” or “arranged” to be used or
occupied.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship or
practical difficulty.
      WETLAND. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances supports
wetland vegetation or aquatic life. Irrigation ditches are not considered
WETLANDS.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.030) (Ord. 2012-06, passed 9-11-2012; Ord. 2021-18, passed
12-15-2021; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-9-2024)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.025 PURPOSES AND INTENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   This section specifies the purpose and intent of the zoning districts
established by these land development regulations.
   (A)   Single-Family Residential. This zone is intended for general
residential use to maintain the country atmosphere of the town. It allows for
only single-family residences. The low density of this zone allows its location
away from arterial streets and in areas of irregular topography. (Only
household pets are allowed.)
      (1)   “Nonconforming use” (when designated). This designation is to
acknowledge and record a specific, grandfathered, nonconforming use unique to
an individual, designated lot or lot of land. The continued use of the
designated use, as historically noted, is acknowledged and granted within the
confines of the town code. No other nonconforming uses are granted under this
provision.
      (2)   Designated areas.
         (a)   Plat 13 - Lot 38; and
         (b)   Plat 17 - Lots 1, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 85.
   (B)   Multiple-Family Residential - 1. This zone is intended to provide a
greater diversity of housing opportunities through higher density housing in
areas suited for this type development. It allows for one- or two-family
residences with enhanced on-site wastewater systems or an approved community
wastewater treatment system. Open space must be provided; the amount to be
determined by the TSVR Planning Commission. Because of the higher density
allowed by this zone, it should be located in areas of low topographic relief
and shall have ready access to a county arterial road and near public/community
facilities. Community facilities and planned unit developments are allowed
within this zone upon approval of the town council.
   (C)   Multiple-Family Residential - 2. This zone is intended to provide for
a greater diversity of housing opportunities through high density dwelling
complexes sharing common areas. It allows for duplex multi-unit townhouses and
multi-unit two-story condominiums with enhanced on-site wastewater systems or
an approved community wastewater treatment system. Open space must be provided
and townhouse/condominium complexes should consist of common grounds maintained
by a homeowner’s association or land manager; the amount of open space to be
determined by the TSVR Planning Commission. Because of the high density of this
zone, it should be located in areas of low relief with direct access to an
arterial street and near public/community facilities. Community facilities and
planned unit development are allowed within this zone upon approval of the Town
Council.
   (D)   Commercial Zone. This zone is intended to provide the TSVR with a core
of public and private facilities designed to meet community needs for goods and
services and for meeting places of various kinds. To maintain the sense of a
town center, this zone shall be a cohesive area and shall not be distributed
along arterial roads so as to promote strip commercial development. Parking
space is required for each facility to accommodate the anticipated use. For
each facility, an enhanced on-site wastewater system capable of treating the
load from the maximum anticipate use must be provided or the facility must be
connected to a appropriate community wastewater treatment system approved by
the town.
   (E)   Private Recreation. This zone is also intended to accommodate the land
and functions of private not-for-profit organizations. It allows for the mix of
uses that are common and usual for such organizations. All activities, land
development and structures must conform to town zoning regulations.
   (F)   Public Facilities. Areas set aside for town facilities such as
community centers, parks, maintenance facilities, offices, water and wastewater
treatment facilities, public services and commercial activities. All
activities, land development and structures shall conform to town codes and to
the degree possible to the requirements of the adjacent zoning district.
   (G)   Planned Development Zone - Residential and Mixed Use. 
      (1)   This zone is intended to encourage residential development that
will result in improved living and working environments, promote more efficient
use of space and infrastructure, encourage a variety of residential dwelling
types and lot sizes, encourage ingenuity and originality in total development
and individual site design, allow for denser clustering of development where
appropriate, and preserve open space to serve wildlife, scenic, agricultural
and recreational purposes.
      (2)   Because of higher density of development, this zone shall have
ready access to an arterial, multi-modal transportation and the town commercial
center and it shall have community water and sewer services.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.010) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.026 ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAYS.
   (A)   The purpose of the Zoning District Overlay classification is to
address critical environmental issues which cut across more than a single
zoning district.
   (B)   Overlays are designated on the Official Zoning District Map overlying
the base zoning district designation and provide additional standards to be met
by development:
      (1)   Wellhead Protection Area Overlay (reserved);
      (2)   Ground Water Protection Overlay (reserved);
      (3)   Wildfire Hazard Overlay (reserved); and
      (4)   Alluvial Fan Flooding Overlay (reserved).
(Prior Code, § 9.02.020)
REZONE PROCEDURE
§ 154.040 REQUEST FOR REZONE.
   (A)    A change to the zoning maps of the town may be initiated by the
Planning Commission for any property within the town’s jurisdiction or by
application of one or more property owners for or on behalf of their property
within the town’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   Separate applications must be submitted for each lot of property that
is not contiguous to another lot being requested for the same rezone. Separate
applications must be submitted for rezone requests of contiguous property into
different zoning districts.
   (C)   If a rezone request is proposed in connection with a conditional use
or a zoning and development permit, the application for the conditional use or
zoning and development permit shall accompany the petition.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.010)
§ 154.041 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Applications from a property owner shall be filed with the Planning
Commission on the specified forms and accompanied by necessary data and
information to assure the fullest presentation of the facts.
   (B)   The data and information should, at a minimum, cover the following
points:
      (1)   Describe any special circumstances that exist for the land for
which the rezone is sought;
      (2)   Describe how strict application of the current zoning regulations
for the specified land would deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the
land;
      (3)   Describe how rezoning allows a reasonable use of the land;
      (4)   Describe how rezoning of the specified property would not be
detrimental to the use of the surrounding property nor to the public welfare;
and
      (5)   Describe how rezoning of the property would maintain harmony with
all surrounding zoning requirements.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.020)
§ 154.042 LIMITATION.
   No application from a property owner for the same general purpose concerning
the same property that has been denied by the town shall be received or
processed by the town within one year from the date of such denial except by
unanimous vote by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.030)
§ 154.043 FEE SCHEDULE.
   A rezone application fee, as set forth below shall be paid at the time of
filing of an application by the property owner or the property owner’s
representative. It becomes nonrefundable upon Planning Commission approval to
proceed (Step 4 of Flow Chart in § 154.045). No fee shall be required in the
case of proceedings initiated by either the Planning Commission or the town.
Rezone application fee (nonrefundable): $500.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.040)
§ 154.044 REZONE PROCEDURES.
   (A)    An application for property rezone shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission. The application will be placed on the agenda of the regular
Commission meeting scheduled no sooner than eight days and no later than 21
days after receipt of the rezone application.
      (1)   The Commission shall investigate the facts bearing on the
application and evaluate and compile the necessary information on the
application.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall evaluate the request and consider the
following findings to decide the extent and nature of the rezone application:
         (a)   Evidence that the proposal is consistent with the goals and
objectives of the town’s master plan;
         (b)   Evidence that the proposal will not overburden existing road,
utility and service infrastructure or that the impacts will be adequately
mitigated;
         (c)   Evidence that the proposal does not adversely affect the rate of
infill development of the requested zone in order to avoid unnecessarily
leapfrogging significant tracts of vacant land in the requested zone; and
         (d)   Evidence that the proposal will not disproportionately increase
the cost to the public for providing services.
   (B)    Upon determination of completeness by the Planning Commission, a
written notice with the relevant information shall be mailed or delivered back
to the applicant not later than 14 days after the Commission meeting. The
applicant shall send the written notice by certified mail to affected entities
and all owners of private property within 300 feet of every boundary of the
property being requested for rezone within 14 days of receipt of the written
notice from the Planning Commission. The notice will request any written
comments be submitted to the Planning Commission within 21 days of the
applicant’s mailing date. The applicant will provide a documented list of all
parties that were provided the written notice to the Planning Commission. This
documented list will be a required part of the rezone application.
   (C)   The applicant or the applicant’s representative is required to attend
both the Planning Commission meeting and the Town Council meeting. If the
applicant or the applicant’s representative is not present at either the
Planning Commission meetings or the Town Council meeting, the applicant shall
reapply.
   (D)   The Planning Commission Clerk shall compile the rezone application and
any responses and prepare an informational report for the Planning Commission.
At its next regularly scheduled meeting not earlier than ten days after the end
of the close of the written comment period, the Commission will review the
report and determine if the application is complete. After determining the
application is complete, the Commission shall prepare a report and begin a 30-
day official notice of a public comment period. The Planning Commission shall
publish a notice that delineates the public comment period and the date for the
public meeting (Planning Commission meeting). This shall be done twice in a
newspaper of general circulation with the first being at least 30 days prior to
the public meeting and the second notice posted a week later.
   (E)   After the 30-day notice period, the Planning Commission shall prepare
its report, considering any new and relevant evidence from the applicant,
neighbors, affected entities and concerned citizens and make a recommendation.
The report and recommendation shall include a discussion of the relevant issues
pertaining to the application and a recommendation of approval, denial, tabling
or amending the rezone application. The rezone request shall be placed on the
agenda for the regularly scheduled Commission meeting no earlier than ten days
after the end of the public comment period. This meeting shall be considered
the “public meeting” at the end of the public comment period.
   (F)   There shall be a quorum at the Planning Commission meeting in order to
entertain a motion to make recommendations to the Town Council. At the meeting,
the Planning Commission will consider the rezone application, along with any
related development applications and make a motion for a recommendation to
approve or to deny.
   (G)   The applicant shall have ten days to file a notice of appeal of the
Planning Commision’s recommendation to the Town Council.
   (H)   The Town Council shall have a quorum in order to entertain a motion to
approve, deny or table the application as well as hear any new and relevant
evidence from the applicant, neighbors, governmental agencies and other
concerned citizens before taking final action on an application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-856.png]
 
   (I)   The Town Council shall notify the applicant as to the action it takes
on the application.
   (J)   The Town Council shall, upon approval of a rezone, direct that the
rezone approval be reflected on the appropriate official zoning map on which
the rezoned property is located and file the adopted changes in the Office of
the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.050)
§ 154.045 REZONE FLOW CHART.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.060)
GENERAL REGULA TIONS
§ 154.060 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide regulations that apply in
all zoning areas to all permitted uses and special uses.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.010)
§ 154.061 SCOPE.
   (A)     Zoning applies to all lots of land and to every building, structure
or use.
   (B)   No lot of land, no building, structure or part thereof and no new
building, structure or part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected,
altered, occupied or used except in conformity with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.020)
§ 154.062 BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The property owner is responsible for the continuing compliance with
all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No lot shall be divided in such a manner so that the resulting new
lots are in conflict with any provisions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, setbacks, lot size, open space, buffer areas, greenbelt, building
area, the space occupied by buildings, lot measurements (width, depth),
accessory buildings and uses, parking space, vegetation belt or yard.
   (C)   Setbacks, open space, buffer areas, greenbelt, building envelope,
vegetation belt apply uniformly within each respective zoning area to all uses,
structures and buildings except that the following can be located anywhere on a
lot except as noted:
      (1)   Terraces, retaining walls;
      (2)   Flag poles;
      (3)   Hydrants;
      (4)   Arbors, trellises, trees, plants, shrubs;
      (5)   Playground equipment, outdoor cooking equipment;
      (6)   Walkways, mobility ramps and steps; and
      (7)   Paved, concrete and improved driveways.
   (D)   On all new dwelling structures, all roof overhangs on gable ends shall
extend a minimum of 12 inches beyond the adjoining wall. All roof overhangs on
eaves on pitched sides shall extend to minimum of 18 inches beyond the
adjoining wall. Low pitched roofs, two vertical inches for each 12 horizontal
inches and less should have a minimum of 18 inches overhang on all sides.
   (E)   (1)   On all accessory buildings, structures with a building area
greater than 350 square feet, and less than or equal to 600 square feet; all
roof overhangs on gable ends shall extend to a minimum of six inches beyond the
adjoining wall.
      (2)   All roof eaves shall extend a minimum of 12 inches beyond the
adjoining wall.
   (F)   On all new accessory building structures with a building area of
greater than 600 square feet, roof overhangs listed in division (E) above shall
apply unless roof overhangs are constructed to match the dimensions of an
existing dwelling structure on the same building lot.
   (G)   Modular homes and manufactured/mobile homes shall have roof pitches no
less than five vertical inches for each 12 inches horizontal inches. Additions
to existing dwelling structures may continue the roof pitch of the original
structure.
   (H)   Short-Term Rentals are only allowed in the Single-Family Residential
zone unless otherwise excluded by a Homeowner's Association (HOA) or equivalent
legal entity.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.030) (Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 154.063 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER APPLICABLE STATUTES, ORDINANCES OR
ADMINISTRATIVE RULES.
   No lot, building or structure in any area shall be permitted which does not
comply with applicable federal, state, county, public health or town statutes,
ordinances or administrative rules.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.040)
§ 154.064 WATER PROTECTION.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, the
following provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Within ten feet of the stream channel edge and high-water edge of
ponds and springs, an area of vegetation shall be maintained in a healthy
state.
   (B)    For any lot or lots with shared parking that have more than 70%
impervious cover, the landowner or association shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Commission and Council that no storm run-off shall leave
said lot or lots and that if on-site infiltration facilities are employed to
meet this requirement, that said facilities meet all county, state and federal
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.050)
§ 154.065 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES, GROUNDWATER PROTECTION.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, all businesses and facilities which use or
generate hazardous substances in quantities greater than 220 pounds per month
or 25 gallons per month, whichever is less, or store hazardous substances in
quantities greater than 220 pounds per month or 25 gallons per month, whichever
is less, shall comply with the groundwater protection requirements of this
section; provided, however, the groundwater protection requirements of this
section shall not apply to fuel stored in a fuel tank which is part of the
motor vehicle for purposes of use by that vehicle’s motor and shall not apply
to materials in a five gallon, or a smaller, pre-packaged sealed container.
   (B)   Groundwater protection, generally:
      (1)   Projects and related improvements shall be designed to protect the
natural environment, including lakes, ponds, streams, wetlands, floodplains,
groundwater, steep slopes and natural and human-made drainage systems.
      (2)   General purpose floor drains shall be:
         (a)   Connected to an on-site holding tank (not a septic tank/drain
field or a dry well) in accordance with state, county and municipal
requirements;
         (b)   Authorized through a state groundwater discharge permit; or
         (c)   Connected to a public sewer system.
      (3)   State and federal agency requirements for storage, spill
prevention, record keeping, emergency response, transport and disposal of
hazardous substances and polluting materials shall be met. no discharge to
groundwater, including direct and indirect discharges, shall be allowed without
appropriate state and county permits and approvals.
      (4)   Out-of-service water wells shall be sealed and abandoned in
accordance with applicable requirements of the State Department of
Environmental Quality.
      (5)   If the site plan includes territory within a Wellhead Protection
Overlay Area the applicant shall submit a signed statement providing permission
for periodic follow-up groundwater protection inspections by the Town
Administrator or his or her representative, county and state officials.
      (6)   Storm water discharges to the ground shall meet county, state and
federal regulations, and when required, have the appropriate permits.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.060)
§ 154.066 FENCES.
   (A)   Fences over six feet high shall be set back the required distance for
the respective zoning district. Fences within the setback area shall not exceed
six feet in height. Fences located in the front yard of a lot shall not exceed
three and one-half feet in height.
   (B)   Fences shall be constructed of materials compatible with the structure
building materials and appropriate in design for the structure and area.
   (C)   Fences required as screens shall have opacity greater than 75% and
shall be placed on the lot so as to provide the maximum degree of screening.
   (D)   The area enclosed by a fence used to confine household pets (dog runs)
may not exceed an area of 128 square feet or a height of six feet. Portable dog
runs may not exceed an area of 50 square feet or a height of six feet.
   (E)   Unless expressly permitted by the regulations for a zoning district,
chain link, barbed wire, electric and plain wire fences of any kind are
prohibited. Underground electric dog fences are allowed.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.070) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.067 RESERVED.
§ 154.068 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY AT CORNERS.
   (A)   No use, structure or plant material, such as off-street parking
spaces, fences, signs, berms, hedges or planting of shrubs, which is taller
than 30 inches or which obstructs safe vision at a street corner, whichever is
shorter, shall be located, erected or maintained within a triangular area
defined as ABC in the illustration below.
   (B)   The distance between point “A” to point “B” and between point “B” to
point “C” shall be equal to the setback from the street for the respective
zoning areas plus 33 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-858.png]
 
   (C)    The setbacks required in this section may be modified by the
Commission based on geometric design and other traffic controls at the
particular intersection and only after consultation with and following the
advice of the Town Public Works Director and/or the Town Public Safety Advisor.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.080)
§ 154.069 VEHICULAR PARKING SPACE AND ACCESS.
   (A)   See each zoning area for specific requirements for number of parking
spaces and locations.
   (B)   A parking space shall be a minimum area as defined in the figure below
and the table below.
   (C)    Approval for location of all exit and entrance driveways shall be
obtained from the Commission, Town Council or designee. Such approval shall
also include the design and construction thereof in the interests of safety,
adequate drainage and other public requirements.
 
Parking Stall Dimensions (Standard Vehicle, Dimensions in feet)
A          B  C  D    E    F  G
0 degrees  10 25 10   25   24 12
30 degrees 10 20 18.4 19   24 15
45 degrees 10 20 21   13.5 24 15
60 degrees 10 20 22.3 11.5 24 20
90 degrees 10 20 20   10   24 20
 
   (D)   Except when expressly permitted by ordinance or the Town Administrator
or his or her designee, parking areas required by this chapter, and publicly
owned parking areas, shall not be used for the storage or continuous parking of
recreational vehicles, trailers, motor homes, motor vehicles or junk for more
than a 72-hour period.
   (E)    For shared parking lots, wherein the parking requirements for two or
more structures are shared in a common space, the shared parking relationship
shall be documented prior to the issuance of a building permit. Documentation
shall consist of a binding covenant on the deed to each property that is on
file with the County Clerk and which describes the terms of shared use and the
existence of an association of all shared property owners to improve, maintain
and remove snow from the parking lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-860.png]
 
      (1)   Angle of parking;
      (2)   Stall width;
      (3)   Stall length;
      (4)   Stall depth;
      (5)   Curb length;
      (6)   Two-way drive aisle width; and
      (7)   One-way drive aisle width.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.090)
§ 154.070 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be maintained or replaced by the property owner.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall:
      (1)   Be Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant;
      (2)   Be constructed of brick, concrete, concrete pavers or concrete with
brick borders;
      (3)   Be no less than four feet wide in residential areas and no less
than six feet wide on the side of the block where there are commercial
buildings; and
      (4)   Assist in creating a complete linked network of walkways connecting
all uses with parks and other areas.
   (C)   Unless expressly excluded in a zoning district, sidewalks shall be
separated from streets by “planting strips” a minimum of five feet wide,
planted with appropriate trees and grass, ground cover or other landscaping
materials.
      (1)   In areas with commercial use these “planting strips” may be
replaced by paved areas utilizing trees in cast iron tree grates placed a
minimum of 20 feet and a maximum of 40 feet apart.
      (2)   In areas where the planting strip is replaced by paved areas, the
paved strip may be used for the placement of benches, waste receptacles, fire
hydrants, traffic signs, newspaper vending boxes, bus shelters, bicycle racks
and similar elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or
motorist visibility.
      (3)   The width of planting strips on contiguous lots shall be compatible
such that the sidewalk is continuous and without conspicuous offsets.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.100) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.071 ROADS AND STREETS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote and maintain the
health and safety of town residents; to provide for the orderly flow of traffic
within the town, to facilitate access of emergency vehicles to all parts of
town, and to allow the safe and orderly movement of pedestrians, bicycles,
permitted off-road vehicles.
   (B)   Categories. The town uses the following functional categories in
classifying its streets:
      (1)   Arterial;
      (2)   Collector;
      (3)   Local street;
      (4)   Private road;
      (5)   Alley; and
      (6)   Primitive.
   (C)   An impact fee will be charged to any new development accessing town
roads. Impact fees are assessed on new developments to help pay for the
additional roadway capacity required to accommodate the development. Fees will
be part of a development contract with the subdivision. Fees are set by
resolution as part of the contract procedure.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.110) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021; Ord. 2024-12, passed
12-10-2024)
§ 154.072 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to standardize, regulate and
control the location, size, type, construction, maintenance and quantity of
driveway access to town streets to provide safe and efficient entry to and exit
from town streets to private property, safety of vehicular traffic in the
streets, and safety of pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk area.
   (B)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner,
agent, servant, contractor or employee to install or cause to have installed
any driveway, or any vehicular access, on any public right-of-way in the town
without a permit. Permits shall be issued only after payment of prescribed fees
and compliance with town regulations. At the time the permit application is
made, the town shall be advised of any parking meters, traffic or street signs,
signal poles, streetlight poles, fire hydrants, trees or obstructions that will
be affected by the placement or removal of the driveway or sidewalk.
   (C)   Accessibility study. 
      (1)   If any proposed site development will generate 200 or more vehicle
trips per day, a traffic accessibility study shall be required before any
developmental permit is issued. A vehicular trip is defined as a one-way
journey of a motorized vehicle. If the study indicates a need for the
installation of traffic-control devices to regulate traffic flow generated by
the facility, such traffic-control devices shall be installed at the expense of
the owner of the facility.
      (2)   The study shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Estimated number of vehicular trips per day;
         (b)   Location of approaches;
         (c)   Circulation and channelization patterns;
         (d)   Location and type of traffic-control devices;
         (e)   Pedestrian systems;
         (f)   Bicycle systems;
         (g)   Projected turning movements; and
         (h)   Impact on surrounding existing street intersections.
   (D)   Fees. Permit, inspection and service fees shall be charged by the town
as prescribed by ordinance.
   (E)   Town to furnish inspector. The town may furnish an inspector to
inspect every piece of curb, driveway and driveway apron to be constructed,
whose duties shall be to review the forms for alignment, grade and materials
and to see that the work is done in accordance with the specifications of the
town at the time of the issuance of the permit. The town shall be given at
least two workdays to make an inspection.
   (F)   Allowable driveway widths.
      (1)   In single-family residential zoned districts, the maximum driveway
width shall be 24 feet or the width of the garage to which it leads, whichever
is greater, and shall be located in accordance with town specifications. For
lots or lots with more than 25 feet of frontage, the total combined width of
all driveways shall not exceed 50% of the frontage of that lot or lot. The
minimum distance between driveways serving the same lot or lot shall be 25
feet.
      (2)   In multi-family zoned districts, the maximum driveway width shall
not exceed 24 feet and shall be located in accordance with town specifications.
The minimum distance between driveways shall be 25 feet, except in the case
where two driveways serve side-by-side duplex units, in such instances, a
minimum six-foot separation distance is required between the two driveways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-884.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-886.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-888.png]
 
      (3)   In all commercial zoned districts, the maximum driveway width shall
be 30 feet except driveway widths for service stations may be up to 40 feet
when approved by the town and shall be located in accordance with town
specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-864.png]
 
   (G)    General regulations. Every driveway apron constructed or altered in
the street right-of-way shall conform to the following regulations.
      (1)   No driveway apron shall be constructed closer than ten feet to the
side property line.
      (2)   No driveway apron shall be closer than five feet to, nor shall it
be so located as to interfere with, intersecting sidewalks, utility facilities,
light standards, fire hydrants, catch basins, street signs, signals or other
public improvements or installations.
      (3)   Any necessary adjustments to utility facilities, light standards,
fire hydrants, catch basins, street signs, signals, underground conduits for
street lighting or fire alarm systems, or other public improvements or
installations shall be accomplished without cost to the town.
      (4)   No driveway shall be closer than 20 feet to the intersection of
town streets except along arterial streets or streets intersecting an arterial
at a signalized intersection where at the driveway shall be 100 feet from the
corner. The location of driveways for lots or lots along arterial streets
having less than 100 feet of frontage shall be approved by the town.
      (5)   No driveway shall be located so as to create a hazard to
pedestrians or motorists, or to invite or compel illegal or unsafe traffic
movements.
      (6)   In any commercial zone, driveways shall be designed such that
vehicles entering, or egressing, shall not be required to back from or into a
street right-of-way.
      (7)   The contractor or his or her agent doing the construction or
alteration work shall maintain the premises in a safe manner and shall provide
adequate barricades and lights at his or her or own expense to protect the
safety of the public using the adjacent streets or sidewalks, and shall hold
the town harmless from any damages incurred by his or her operations.
      (8)   The angle between any driveway apron and the street shall be 90
degrees to the street tangent or on a radial line to the street curve.
      (9)   A permit for the construction of a driveway shall not be issued
unless vehicles which will use the driveway can be parked entirely within the
private property lines.
   (H)   Driveways serving facilities that will generate 200 or more vehicle
trips per day may be classified and constructed as a street intersection. A
complete design of the intersection shall be submitted to the town before a
permit is issued. Approval of this type entrance may be contingent upon the
applicant installing traffic-control devices at his or her sole expense. This
type of entrance shall be included in calculating number, spacing or any other
requirement pertaining to driveways as specified herein.
   (I)   Restrictions. In addition to the general regulations prescribed
herein, driveway aprons to be constructed or altered shall conform to the
following:
      (1)   Where a property abuts more than one street, the maximum number of
driveways permitted on each street shall be considered separately and shall be
governed by the frontage of the property on that street; and
      (2)   A joint driveway between adjacent lots may be constructed at a
maximum width of 28 feet. Both property owners must be in agreement to a joint
driveway and shall submit a written agreement to the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.073 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide fair, comprehensive
and enforceable regulations that will foster a quality visual environment for
the town, enhancing it as a place to live, visit and conduct business.
Depending on their size, number and character, signs may attract or repel
visitors, affect the visual quality enjoyed daily by residents, affect the
safety of vehicular traffic, and define the character of the area. Signs are
herein regulated to help maintain the health, comfort and well-being of the
public; to prevent adverse community appearance from the unrestricted use of
signs; to allow signs appropriate to the character of each zoning district; to
promote traffic safety; and to aid police protection and firefighting. This
section is intended to improve the legibility and effectiveness of signs by
preventing over-concentration, improper placement, excessive height, area and
bulk and by regulating sign illumination.
   (B)   General regulations applying to all signs.
      (1)   Measurement of sign area: the area of a sign shall be computed as
including the entire area within a rectangular geometric form or combination of
such forms comprising all the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Frames and borders bearing copy or display
materials shall be included in the computation of the sign area. Where a sign
has two or more faces, the area of all faces shall be included determining the
area of the sign, except where two such faces are placed back to back, parallel
to one another, and less than six inches apart, the area of the sign shall be
of one face.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet in height.
      (3)   The height of all building mounted signs shall not exceed the roof
height of the building.
      (4)   Setback requirements for signs: except where specified otherwise in
this chapter, all signs shall be setback a minimum of one-half the front yard
setback requirements as measured from the street right-of-way line. All signs
shall be required to meet rear and side yard setback requirements for the area
in which it is located.
      (5)   Size of signs: all signs not covered elsewhere in this chapter,
shall not exceed 32 square feet in area, or 20% of the wall area, whichever is
less.
      (6)   Signs, which direct traffic movement onto or within a property
which are not owned and under the authority of county, city, town, state or
federal agency shall not exceed nine square feet in area for each sign. Logo or
business names shall not exceed 20% of the sign area. Such signs shall be
located behind the street right-of-way line. Two directional signs per driveway
shall be permitted.
   (C)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)    Signs within the right-of-way or dedicated public easements,
unless the sign is installed or owned by a government agency which owns, or
holds in trust, the public property or easement;
      (2)   Illuminated signs in residential zoning areas;
      (3)   Signs affixed to trees, utility poles or rocks, unless the rock is
a monument type base designed for that purpose;
      (4)   Signs that interfere with the ability of vehicle operators or
pedestrians to see traffic signals or other traffic;
      (5)   Signs that obstruct any window, door, fire escape or opening
intended to provide entry or exit to any structure, building or right-of-way;
      (6)   Bulletins, bills, flyers, posters and any other display which is
tacked, pasted or otherwise affixed to walls of buildings, barns, sheds, trees,
poles, fences, signs and sign posts;
      (7)   Signs attached or painted on a bench;
      (8)   Signs that imitate an official traffic sign or signal;
      (9)   Signs that are lighted from the interior of the sign, external neon
signs and signs lighted by means of an upward facing light source, or any light
source, which is not shielded so the direct rays of light are confined to the
surface of the sign;
      (10)   Signs with flashing lights, flashing messages, moving letters or
blinking lights; and
      (11)   Electronic changeable message sign where messages changes more
than once a day except for signs denoting the correct time and temperature and
the name of the business and shall not exceed 12 square feet per side.
   (D)   Off-premises signs.
      (1)   Signs or commercial messages advertising any product, service,
activity, event, person, institution or business located within town, or
advertising the sale or rental of a lot other than the one where the sign is
located, shall be limited to:
         (a)   One sign per lot;
         (b)   One additional sign is allowed provided that it is for multiple
businesses developed by a single organization (such as a business association,
chamber of commerce or other similar organization) or a governmental agency.
Signs which meet the above conditions shall be permitted in any zoning area
established by this chapter; and
         (c)   Any structure formerly used as a sign, and not in use for more
than 180 days after its use for a sign has ceased shall be removed.
      (2)   Off-premises signs which bear names, information and emblems of
service clubs, places of worship, civic organizations and all quasi-public uses
shall be permitted on private property. Each sign shall be no more than nine
square feet in area, shall not exceed a height of eight feet and shall be set
back a minimum of ten feet from the street right-of-way line.
   (E)   On-premises signs.
      (1)   Community building: signage shall not exceed 32 square feet for
each building.
      (2)   One identification sign shall be permitted for each public street
frontage for a vehicle entrance for a school, church, public building or other
authorized commercial use or lawful nonconforming commercial use. Each sign
shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
      (3)   One identification sign shall be permitted for each public street
frontage, for a subdivision, multiple-family building development and mobile
home park. Each sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
      (4)   One single freestanding sign located near each street entrance to a
multi-business plaza may be a maximum of 75 square feet in area.
         (a)   In a plaza where multiple businesses and occupants are located,
a single wall or projecting sign may be permitted for each enterprise and shall
be based on one square foot of sign area for each one linear foot of building
length which faces on a public street up to a maximum of 16 square feet.
         (b)   Where groups of businesses and occupants are located separate
from others in a plaza, each group location is permitted a freestanding sign to
advertise businesses and occupants within that group but shall not exceed 24
square feet.
      (5)   All multiple business plaza signs shall:
         (a)   Only advertise the businesses and occupants associated with the
respective group or multiple business plaza; and
         (b)   Comply with other provisions of this section and the respective
zoning area.
   (F)   Temporary signs. Except for street banners approved by the town, all
other temporary signs may be placed to advertise any temporary special event,
activity, political campaign, sale or rent of real property sale of personal
property in a residential zoning area or similar purpose for a limited period
of time. All temporary sign shall:
      (1)   Be located on the same property as the event or on private property
with permission;
      (2)   Comply with all other provisions of this section;
      (3)   Not exceed the size regulations for the Area, or six square feet,
whichever is greater. One banner located on the face of the structure where the
event will occur may cover a maximum of 40% of the face area;
      (4)   Not impede the flow of traffic or pedestrian movement; and
      (5)   Be on display only for a period which includes:
         (a)   The duration of the event;
         (b)   Up to, but not exceeding, five days after the event; and
         (c)   The minimum amount of time necessary to adequately advertise or
campaign ahead of the event not to exceed 30 days.
   (G)   Illumination and light.
      (1)   A sign shall not be internally illuminated.
      (2)   Lighting of signs, if at all, shall be by means of a downward
facing light source, which shall be shielded so the direct rays of light are
confined to the surface of the sign.
   (H)   Signs not regulated. This section does not apply to any signs which
are:
      (1)   Not visible to motorists or pedestrians on any street, alley,
public lands or adjacent lots;
      (2)   Specific information panel for the direction of motorists which may
be located, under authority of any statute, on any county, city, town street,
state or federal highway;
      (3)   Under four feet in area for sale, rent of the lot, indicating
private property, no trespassing, no hunting or fishing or political signs;
      (4)   Legal postings as required by law; and
      (5)   Signs of a non-commercial nature are allowed and shall not exceed
16 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.130) (Ord. 2023-04, passed 4-11-2023)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.074 OUTSIDE LIGHTING.
   (A)   General. No person, firm or corporation shall install or erect any
floodlight, searchlight, security light or other form of light source in such a
manner that the light rays from such device fail to conform with the terms and
conditions of this code. Further, no person, firm or corporation shall install
or erect, any floodlight, searchlight, security light or other type of light
source in such a manner that the light therefrom may distract the attention of
any vehicle driver from the operation of a vehicle in a safe and prudent
manner. In all properties the modification or replacement of any permanent
outdoor lighting fixtures shall comply with these regulations.
   (B)   Light trespass. The maximum illumination at five feet inside an
adjoining residential lot or public right-of-way or beyond, from an artificial
light shall be no greater than 0.054 lux (lumens/meter²). Said illumination
likewise measured inside an adjoining commercial or industrial lot or on a
public street, or beyond, shall not exceed 1.08 lux. No line of sight to a
glaring light source is permitted from five feet or more inside a residential
property line or public right-of-way property line by an observer viewing from
a position that is level with or higher than the ground below the fixture.
Total lux can be calculated by the following formula: B = L/4.d2, where: B =
brightness expressed in lux (lumens/m2); L = fixture light emission expressed
in lumens; and d = Distance in meters from the light source (3.28 feet = 1
meter).
   (C)   General lighting design.
      (1)   The bulbs in outdoor light fixtures emitting from 600 to 1,200
lumens shall be frosted glass or covered by frosted glass or other similarly
translucent cover.
      (2)   An outdoor light fixture emitting more than 1,200 lumens, except
motion detector activated lighting, shall be full cutoff and fully shielded to
an observer at the property line.
      (3)   A spotlight of less than 1,800 lumens need not be full cutoff or
covered by a translucent cover if its center beam is aimed at a point not
beyond any property lines and no higher than 45 degrees below horizontal, and
is motion detector activated and cycles off after five minutes.
      (4)   Generally, lighting fixtures should not be located closer to the
property line than a distance equal to three times the fixture’s mounting
height above grade at the property line.
      (5)   No searchlights, laser lighting or lights that pulse, flash, rotate
or simulate motion shall be used for advertising or promotions.
      (6)   Emergency lighting and traffic control lighting is exempt from
these general lighting requirements.
      (7)   Tower lighting shall not be permitted unless required by the FAA.
Required lighting shall be of the lowest allowed intensity and red unless
specifically forbidden under FAA requirements.
      (8)   At the close of business, all lighting shall be reduced to a level
not greater than those described in division (D)(2) below.
      (9)   The American flag may be illuminated by up to three upward facing
spotlights.
   (D)   Specific lighting requirements.
      (1)   Landscaping. When landscaping is to be illuminated in Commercial or
Multiple- Family Residential-2 Zoning Districts, the Commission shall first
approve a landscape lighting plan that presents the purpose and objective of
the lighting, shows the location of all lighting fixtures and what landscaping
each is to illuminate, and demonstrates that the installation will not generate
excessive light levels, cause glare or direct light beyond the landscaping into
the night sky.
      (2)   Parking lot lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed to
provide the minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate vision and comfort in
parking areas, and to not cause glare or direct illumination onto adjacent
properties or streets.
         (a)   All lighting fixtures serving parking lots shall be cut-off
fixtures.
         (b)   Mounting heights of lighting fixtures shall not exceed 20 feet.
         (c)   The minimum illumination level shall not exceed 4.3 lux. The
ratio of the average illumination to the minimum illumination shall be 4:1.
      (3)   Lighting of walkways, bikeways and parks. Where special lighting is
to be provided for walkways, bikeways or parks, the following requirements
shall apply.
         (a)   The walkway, pathway or ground area shall be illuminated to a
level of no more than 5.4 lux.
         (b)   The vertical illumination levels at a height of five feet above
grade shall be no less that 5.4 lux.
         (c)   Lighting fixtures shall be designed to direct light downward,
and light sources shall have an initial output of no more than 1,000 lumens.
      (4)   Lighting of gasoline station or convenience store aprons and
canopies. Lighting levels on gasoline station or convenience store aprons and
under canopies shall be adequate to facilitate the activities taking place in
such locations. Lighting of such areas shall not be used to attract attention
to the business. Signs allowed under local ordinances shall be used for that
purpose.
         (a)   Areas on the apron away from the gasoline pump islands used for
parking or vehicle storage shall be illuminated in accordance with the
requirements for parking areas set forth elsewhere in this section. If no
gasoline pumps are provided, the entire apron shall be treated as a parking
area.
         (b)   Areas around the pump islands and under canopies shall be
illuminated so that the minimum horizontal luminance at grade level shall not
exceed 60 lux. The ratio of average to minimum luminance shall be no greater
that 4:1.
         (c)   Light fixtures mounted on canopies shall be recessed so that the
lens cover is recessed or flush with the bottom surface of the canopy and/or
shielded by the fixture or the edge of the canopy so that light is restrained
to no more than 85 degrees beyond the vertical plane.
         (d)   Lights shall not be mounted on the top or sides of the canopy
and the sides of the canopy shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   Outdoor sports or recreation fields or performance areas. Lighting
of outdoor recreational facilities (public or private), such as, but not
limited to, football fields, soccer fields, baseball fields, softball fields,
tennis courts, driving ranges, special event or show areas, shall meet the
following conditions.
         (a)   All fixtures used for such lighting shall be fully shielded with
15-degree cutoff.
         (b)   All lighting of facilities covered in this section is prohibited
after 11:00 p.m., except as noted below.
            1.   Illumination of the playing field, court, track or event site,
after 11:00 p.m. is prohibited except to conclude a scheduled event that was
scheduled to be completed before 11:00 p.m. that circumstances prevented
concluding before 11:00 p.m.
            2.   The hours of operation for the lighting system for any game or
event shall not exceed one hour after the end of the event. When the event
schedule places this time after 11:00 p.m., a permit from the town shall be
obtained.
         (c)   Lighting levels for outdoor performance areas, sport and
recreation facilities, and playfields shall not exceed by more than 5% the
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America’s (IESNA) published standards
for the proposed activity.
   (E)   Street lighting.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Unless otherwise approved by the Commission, the developer of
new areas within commercial or multiple-family residential.
         (b)   Zoning districts shall be required to design and construct
street lighting systems in accordance with accepted guidelines and professional
standards or have the street lighting system designed and constructed by the
current power company. The plans shall be reviewed and approved by the
Commission before construction. All costs associated with associated with
furnishing and installing the street lighting systems will be borne by the
developer. The town shall assume ownership of the streetlight system on town
streets after inspection and testing of the system is complete and the system
is functional and approved by the town in all respects. The plans must be
designed by and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the state who is
qualified in the design of electrical streetlight systems. In the event a
conflict exists between these requirements, the more stringent applies.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Spacing.
            1.   Poles and fixtures shall be located on the front property
line.
            2.   The light poles and fixtures shall be located at 100-foot
spacing from pole to pole, on alternating sides of the street (staggered) or as
approved by the Commission. The Commission may waive this requirement in
residential zones.
            3.   A minimum of two light poles and fixtures, staggered across
the intersection, shall be required at all intersections. The Commission shall
approve the final fixture location. The Commission may waive this requirement
in residential zones.
         (b)   Layout requirements. Fixtures shall be strategically located to
provide adequate illumination for all intersections. Adequate shall be defined
as providing a minimum of 5.4 lux at all locations within the street right-of-
way including the intersections of streets or as approved by the Commission.
         (c)   Conduit. Conduit shall be provided to the end of each street
constructed by the developer, with a cap for future extension.
      (3)   Contract drawings and documents to be submitted to the town.
         (a)   Plans. Contract drawings shall be prepared on drawings separate
from other utilities.
Separate drawings shall be provided for each street or subdivision. The scale
of the plans shall be one inch equals 50 feet or larger. The location of the
existing and proposed light fixture shall be clearly identified, with all
conduits shown. Street crossing shall be located by centerline stationing of
the roadway. All control panels/meter pedestals shall be indicated, and each
separate circuit numbered for clarity.
         (b)   Typical sections and details. Plans should include all details
of the light poles and fixtures, foundation details and trenching cross-
sections. Any special design feature shall be shown on the drawing or clearly
stated in the general notes.
         (c)   Distribution of final plans. The appropriate number of the final
plans, as determined by the Commission, shall be submitted to the Commission
for use by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.140)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.075 TEMPORARY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   No person shall use or permit the use of any temporary dwelling, motor
home or trailer as defined in this chapter as a principal or seasonal dwelling
on any site, lot, field or tract of land.
   (B)   Storage of temporary dwellings, recreational vehicles, motor homes,
trailers, boats and the like as defined in Wyoming Statutes §§ 31-1-101 or 31-
5-102, and watercraft as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 41-13-101 shall:
      (1)   Only be on a lot where a principal dwelling currently exists; and
      (2)   Be set back the required distance for the respective zoning
district.
      (3)   Also see Title XIII Chapter 94 Section §
94.02.
   (C)   Un-occupied parking or storage of temporary dwellings (including
trailers and motor homes and others as described in paragraph B, above in this
section) on a street or right-of-way is prohibited. See also Title VII Chapter
71 Section §
71.05.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.150) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.076 DWELLING REGULATIONS.
   Dwellings or duplexes shall comply in all respects with the town’s building
codes. Where a dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal or state
standards or regulations for construction and where such standards or
regulations for construction are different than those imposed by the town’s
building code, then, and in that event, such federal or state standard or
regulation shall apply. The final structure shall not be occupied until an
acceptable final construction inspection has been completed and the report
furnished to the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.160)
§ 154.077 DRIVE-IN AND DRIVE-THROUGH BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Except for as provided in Appendix A at the end of this chapter, there
shall be no drive-through or drive-in facilities within the town.
   (B)   For permitted drive-through and drive-in facilities, space for two
additional waiting vehicles shall be provided with a minimum dimension of 22
feet per each vehicle.
   (C)   Any drive-in facilities shall be secondary in emphasis and priority to
any other access and circulation functions. Such facilities shall be located
inside or rear locations that do not interrupt direct pedestrian access along
connecting pedestrian frontage. The design and layout of drive-in facilities
for restaurants, banks or other uses shall:
      (1)   Avoid potential pedestrian/vehicle conflicts;
      (2)   Provide adequate directional signage to ensure a free flow through
the facility; and
      (3)   Provide a walk-up service option as well as drive-in.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.170)
§ 154.078 SPECIAL USE (PRIOR AND GRANDFATHERED).
   (A)   The basis under which any site can be designated as a special use must
be verified through either a prior continuous use or a prior documented
periodic use unique to an individual lot or specific lot of land as defined by
an original recorded subdivision plat. To be considered a periodic use, the lot
or lot shall have been used for that purpose at least once during the past
three years.
   (B)   Special use allows for the maintenance, improvement and replacement of
those existing facilities that support a special use as required to conform to
safety and general use needs.
   (C)    The intent of a special use designation is not to terminate the
existing use, but to provide for permanent continuation of the use. Expansion
of, addition to or other uses on each unique lot or lot of land would be
through the town ordinances and the Planning Commission’s processes designed
for the modification or addition of a use.
   (D)   No other uses of any nature are granted under this provision.
   (E)   The special use prior and grandfathered is acknowledged and granted
within the confines of the town code. Those lots or lots that are approved for
special use (prior and grandfathered) are identified in Appendix C at the end
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.180)
§ 154.079 NONCONFORMING USE.
   Once a legal non-conforming status of a lot, structure or land use is lost
it shall not be reestablished. Loss of a legal nonconforming status occurs:
   (A)   When a non-conformity is voluntarily eliminated by the owner.
   (B)   When a legal non-conforming use is discontinued or otherwise non-
operational for a period of 365 days.
   (C)   When a legal non-conforming structure is demolished, destroyed,
removed, or damaged to the extent that replacement cost would exceed 75% of the
assessed value of the structure immediately prior to such event.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.190) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.080 PERSONAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Solar.
      (1)   Solar systems can be roof mounted but must conform to building
code. Structural calculations by a licensed structural engineer shall be
required.
      (2)   No solar energy system, including solar panels or solar collectors,
shall be installed or operated in a manner that unreasonably interferes with
the use, enjoyment, or value of adjacent properties.
      (3)   Pole-mounted solar systems must meet the following:
         (a)   Local building code and NFPA 2020 electrical code as well as IRC
2021 building code.
         (b)   Electrical Engineer stamped drawings for vertical or horizontal
pole-mounted solar panels, including schematic.
         (c)   One line diagram on site plan showing locations of pole-mounted
arrays including total square foot or pole mount locations, combiner box,
inverter, battery bank, and/or disconnects.
         (d)   Plans shall include watts per panel with UL listed equipment on
A/C and D/C loads, including wire size and breaker size.
      (4)   All solar systems require a permit from the town.
         (a)   All permit requests considered for approval will be based on the
following:
            1.   Engineered drawings (both structural and electrical) that show
topographical characteristics of the lot, including existing and proposed
structures; and,
            2.   Input from neighbors within three hundred (300) linear feet of
the proposed installation.
         (b)   The building inspector will determine whether or not a permit
should be issued and will make that recommendation to the Planning Commission
for a final decision. If the permit request is denied, the homeowner has the
option to appeal that decision to the Town Council.
   (B)   Wind. Small wind energy systems, i.e., wind turbines (tower mount or
roof-top) are not allowed in the town.
   (C)   Sewer. Septic systems are allowed by the county and as such are
governed by county regulations and require a permit from the county. The Town
requires installation of enhanced/advanced septic treatment systems (as
directed by NSF Standard 40) for all new homes and replacement of existing
septic systems to include those in the single-family residential zone. Should a
sewer system be installed by the town at some future date, all residences in
the area served by that sewer system shall be required to connect to that
system and pay any necessary fees.
   (D)   Water. All town residences are required to connect to the town water
system. Private water wells are not allowed in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.200) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021; Ord. 2025-04, passed
7-8-2025)
§ 154.081 PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Public and community facilities are herein considered to be buildings
or land devoted to public or semi-public (e.g., social clubs) use including
telecommunication towers and open space.
   (B)   Because public and community facilities are permitted in several
zones, their general requirements are listed herein. Specific requirements such
as lot size and building dimensions are presented in §
154.099, Dimensional and bulk standards - community buildings. These
requirements shall prevail in all zones, unless superseded by the requirements
of said zone.
   (C)   Buildings and lands designed, intended or constructed to accommodate
more than 25 persons at any one time, such as schools, churches, libraries,
building belonging to social and civic organization, state-licensed day care
and residential care facility, shall meet the following conditions in addition
to those required by the zone in which they are located:
      (1)   The site shall abut a collector or arterial street or be located
such that significant traffic will not be generated on local residential
streets;
      (2)   Pick-up and drop-off areas shall be included and shall be designed
so as not to impede regular vehicular traffic and so as to enhance vehicular
and pedestrian safety; and
      (3)   Buffering at least ten feet wide consisting of densely planted
shrubs and trees shall be provided at sites with sports activities to mitigate
noise and adverse visual impacts on adjacent residential properties (golf
courses are excluded from this requirement):
   (D)   State-licensed day care facility serving from 13 through 16 persons
and residential care facility serving from seven through 16 persons shall:
      (1)   Provide off-street parking for a minimum of five vehicles or for
the number of vehicles parked 24 or more consecutive hours, whichever is
greater; and
      (2)   Set back outdoor play (recreation) areas at least 15 feet from any
lot line which abuts a residential parcel.
   (E)   Open spaces, whether required by a zone or voluntary, shall meet the
following:
      (1)   The design and location of the open space site as well as its
landscaping, and recreational furniture shall serve one or more of the
following functions:
         (a)   Provide opportunities for outdoor recreation;
         (b)   Provide contrasts to the built environment;
         (c)   Preserve scenic qualities;
         (d)   Protect sensitive or fragile environmental areas;
         (e)   Enhance and protect the values and functions of trees and
forest;
         (f)   Preserve the capacity and water quality of the storm water
drainage system; and
         (g)   Provide pedestrian and bicycle transportation connections.
      (2)   Open space within a development shall consist of one parcel broken
only by streets or pathways.
      (3)   Open space in excess of four acres and providing for outdoor
recreational opportunities shall:
         (a)   Meet the requirements in §
154.080(B).
         (b)   Provide off-street parking for four vehicles per acre of open
space (golf courses are excluded from this requirement).
      (4)   Open spaces shall be the property of the development’s homeowners
association. Such association shall assume the responsibility of developing,
maintaining, preserving, policing and insuring said open space. The association
shall have the power to assess property owners within the development for the
development, maintenance, preservation, policing and insurance of said open
space.
   (F)   Telecommunications towers shall meet the following conditions in
addition to those imposed by the zone in which they are located:
      (1)   Amateur towers.
         (a)   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas shall conform to
Motorola R56 Quality Standards.
         (b)   They may be allowed in the rear yard of residential parcel
provided the height of the tower does not exceed the distance between the tower
base and the nearest property line.
      (2)   Commercial towers.
         (a)   Towers supporting commercial antennas shall conform to Motorola
R56 Quality Standards and to all applicable provisions of §
154.099(A)(8).
         (b)   Commercial towers may be allowed provided the height of the
tower does not exceed the distance between the tower base and the nearest
property line.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.300)
§ 154.082 RESERVED.
§ 154.083 VARIANCE REQUEST AND APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Request for a variance to these restrictions or requirements will be
considered when special circumstances or conditions exist.
   (B)   VARIANCE means deviations from the terms of these regulations that
would not be contrary to public interest due to special circumstances or
conditions, when literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations
would result in undue and unnecessary hardship
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   Review and recommendations of the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall place the variance request on the agenda for a
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. The Planning Commission will
solicit public comments during the meeting on the application for a variance.
At the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall consider the application,
the relevant support materials and the public statements provided at the public
meeting. The Planning Commission shall act to either approve or disapprove the
application based upon the variance standards.
         (b)   Appeals procedures. Any applicant affected by a variance
decision by the Planning Commission may appeal the action to the Town Council.
            1.   The appeal must be made within ten days of the act or failure
to act. The appeal shall be filed with the Town Clerk and a written notice
specifying the grounds of the appeal shall be filed with the Town Council.
            2.   The applicant whose action is appealed shall transmit all
papers constituting the record of the action to the Town Council.
            3.   The Town Council shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing,
give public notice thereof posted at the Town Hall as well as due notice to the
parties of interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time; provided
that such a hearing shall not be held earlier than seven days after the
required notices have been given and at a regularly scheduled Town Council
meeting. The notices shall contain the names of the appellant, a statement of
the nature of their request, and the time and place of the hearing.
            4.   At the hearing, a party may appeal in person or by agent or by
attorney.
      (2)   Standards. In order to authorize a variance, the Planning
Commission must find that all the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist. There are special
circumstances or conditions which are peculiar to the land or building for
which a variance is sought that do not apply generally to land or buildings in
the neighborhood.
         (b)   Not a result of applicant. The special circumstances and
conditions have not resulted from any act of the applicant that was intended to
circumvent these regulations.
         (c)   Strict application is unreasonable. The special circumstances
and conditions are such that strict application of the regulations would either
deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the land or building or create
hardship on the landowner far greater than the protection afforded to the
community by the regulation sought to be varied.
         (d)   Minimum variance. The granting of the variance is the minimum
necessary to make possible the reasonable use of the land or building.
         (e)   Not injurious to neighborhood. The granting of the variance will
not be injurious to the neighborhood surrounding the land where the variance is
proposed and is otherwise not detrimental to the public welfare.
         (f)   Harmony with regulations. The granting of the variance is
consistent with the general purpose and intent of these regulations.
   (C)   (1)   The town shall have the right to enforce, by any proceeding at
law or in equity, all provisions of these requirements and the International
Code Council.
      (2)   In addition to enforce any and said provisions, including the
defense of any said provisions, the town shall be entitled to recover its legal
fees and expenses in the event that a court shall determine that an owner has
committed one or more violations of said regulations, the International Code
Council or to restrain a violation thereof.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-18-2019)
COMMERCIAL/COMMUNITY FACILITIES ZONE
§ 154.095 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this zone is to primarily provide uses that meet the
retail and service needs of the town in a traditional community center and its
vicinity with one- and two-story buildings, and may contain other compatible
uses, such as civic and institutional uses of community importance.
   (B)   The scale of retail uses intended for this area is small stores and
businesses.
   (C)   This area is not intended to be used for industrial uses, large-scale
retail or commercial buildings, or storage.
   (D)   This area is intended to increase pedestrian traffic and use of the
area by town residents and the community as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.010)
§ 154.096 BUILDING TYPES.
   (A)   Single and multi-story structures that allow for a mixture of uses are
allowed.
   (B)   Buildings shall generally relate in scale and design features to the
surrounding buildings, showing respect for the local context, except however,
where existing development does not represent a consistent architectural style
or does not incorporate a building design that reflects the rural character and
architecture of western towns, buildings should instead be designed to improve
the overall streetscape, relying on the design standards set forth in this
chapter.
   (C)   As a general rule, buildings shall reflect a continuity of treatment
obtained by maintaining the building scale or by subtle graduation changes, by
maintaining small front setbacks, by maintaining cornice lines in buildings of
the same height, by extending horizontal lines of fenestration (windows and
doors) and by echoing architectural styles, details, design themes, building
materials and colors used in surrounding buildings where such buildings
represent the rural character and architecture of western towns.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.020)
§ 154.097 USES.
   (A)   Allowed.
      (1)   In the mixed commercial area, street level floors are limited to
retail, office, community and other service uses. Upper floors may be used for
a mixture of retail, office and service uses.
      (2)   The permitted uses are listed in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   Allowed conditionally. Uses that may be permitted with conditions are
described in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.030)
§ 154.098 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS; COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)    Structures shall meet all of the following dimensional and bulk
standards. See illustrations below.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-866.png]
      (1)    Lot depth (A): 120 feet minimum.
      (2)    Lot width (B): 25 feet minimum.
      (3)    Street setback (C): ten feet maximum from the inside edge of the
sidewalk.
      (4)    Side lot setbacks (D): ten feet maximum.
      (5)    Rear lot setback (E): none required.
      (6)    Building height (F): 15 feet minimum to 35 feet maximum with no
more than two stories above ground level. All street facing building facades
shall be a minimum of 15 feet or the height of the building whichever is
greater.
   (B)   Sidewalks are required along streets and shall be a minimum of six
feet wide. Other sidewalks are required as shown in Illustration 5.3.3 below.
   (C)   Entranceways.
      (1)   Building entrances shall be designed to be clearly identifiable and
easily recognizable from the adjacent streets, parking lots and pedestrian
circulation routes.
      (2)   Design, quality of material, scale and character of the entryway
should help identify its importance and be compatible with entrances of
adjacent buildings.
      (3)   Entryways should be recessed to allow for the opening and closing
of the doors without hindering the passage of pedestrians.
      (4)   Building entryway doors shall not open in a manner that causes them
to swing into or in anyway obstruct the sidewalk clear zone.
      (5)   Building entrances shall be ADA accessible.
   (D)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Parking access.
         (a)   Only one driveway to the main street is allowed per side of a
block to access off-street parking as shown in Illustration 5.3.3 below; when
possible, off-street parking should be accessed from an alley or by a driveway
on a non-arterial side street.
         (b)   Parking access provided by a driveway shall consist of two
lanes, no less than 12 feet wide and for the purposes of access shall meet the
requirements of §
154.072, Driveways.
         (c)   Driveways shall also meet the requirements of §
154.072, Driveways.
      (2)   Parking space allocation.
         (a)   One parking space per 300 square feet of commercial space shall
be provided through a combination of off-street and on-street parking. At least
75% of the provided parking shall be located off-street to allow for winter
snow removal and snow storage along the street.
         (b)   In shared parking lots located behind buildings or between two
buildings and where the parking space requirement is shared, the space
requirement may be reduced by 40% for each structure.
         (c)   Sufficient space shall be provided in the parking area to
accommodate snow storage for a normal winter snowfall. The provided space shall
not less than 2.5% of the area used for parking, accessways and dividers.
   (E)   Off-street parking areas shall be screened from public right-of-way
by:
      (1)   A buffer area consisting of a dense planting of shrubs at least
four feet high with trees spaced at a distance less than 20 feet apart;
      (2)   A fence that meets the standards of §
154.066; and
      (3)   A buffer of trees and/or shrubs not less than 15 feet wide shall be
provided between residential areas and parking or service areas.
   (F)   Refuse containers.
      (1)   The owner of every building, structure or premises used or
maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
      (2)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside of any
building or structure shall be kept in standard refuse containers with covers.
      (3)   All outside refuse containers shall be placed in a fenced or walled
structure of sufficient size to screen the refuse containers. Said structure
shall contain doors or gates that hide the containers from view and that
provide reasonable protection from scavenging animals.
      (4)   All outside refuse containers shall be located at least than 100
feet from a street or private residence.
   (G)   Additional development standards. Buildings and lots in the commercial
area shall meet the additional standards shown in illustrations 5.3.3 and 5.3.4
below.
   (H)   Newly constructed commercial/community buildings. All newly
constructed commercial/ community buildings shall be ADA compliant.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-891.png]
 
 
(Prior Code, § 9.06.040)
§ 154.099 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS; COMMUNITY BUILDINGS.
   (A)    Churches and community buildings shall meet all of the following
dimensional and bulk standards. See illustration 5.4.1 below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-893.png]
 
      (1)    Lot depth (A): 100 feet minimum;
      (2)   Lot width (B) 80 feet minimum;
      (3)   Street setback (C): 25 feet maximum from the property line or
inside edge of the sidewalk whichever is greater;
      (4)   Alley or rear yard setback (D): 15 feet minimum from the property
line;
      (5)   Side lot setback (E): 15 feet minimum;
      (6)   Stoop height (F): two feet minimum;
      (7)   Primary building height (G): 45 feet maximum;
      (8)   Steeple or decorative tower height (H): 75 feet maximum;
      (9)   Maximum building coverage: 70% of the gross lot area; and
      (10)   Maximum impervious surface coverage: 80% of the gross lot area.
   (B)   Off-street parking:
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of one parking
space for each 100 square feet public floor space within the building or one
space for each five fixed seats, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The parking lot shall be located in the rear or at the side of
building with a 15 feet minimum setback.
      (3)   The parking lot is to be screened from the street and adjacent
properties by densely planted shrubbery and trees.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.050)
§ 154.100 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Architectural elements.
      (1)    Architectural materials. The following materials are permitted on
visible walls within the commercial/community zone:
         (a)   Brick and tile masonry;
         (b)   Stucco (cementitious finish);
         (c)   Native stone (or synthetic equivalent);
         (d)   Pre-cast masonry (for trim and cornice elements only);
         (e)   Gypsum reinforced fiber concrete (for trim elements only);
         (f)   Metal (for beams, lintels, trim elements and ornamentation
only);
         (g)   Wood lap siding;
         (h)   Logs (or synthetic equivalent); and
         (i)   Concrete composite siding.
      (2)   Architectural details for commercial buildings.
         (a)   For commercial buildings, doors and windows must consume a
minimum of 40% of the first floor facade between two feet and ten feet measured
from the grade in front of the structure. Upper floors shall have door and
window coverage of not less than 30% between three feet and nine feet measured
from the base of the second story.
         (b)   For all commercial and community buildings, awnings and
overhangs are permitted to extend out a maximum of five feet from the building
or over the sidewalk, whichever is greater, and must be a minimum of eight feet
above the grade.
         (c)   For all commercial and community buildings, stoops, steps and
ramps shall not extend into the public right-of-way. Garage doors shall not
face the front lot line.
         (d)   For all commercial and community buildings, colors used shall be
earth tones harmonious with the surrounding area. Accent colors are permitted
on smaller details such as cornices, doors, window trim, columns and bullheads.
         (e)   For all commercial and community buildings, color, architectural
treatment and details shall be similar on all facades visible by the public.
         (f)   Bicycle requirements: Bicycle parking facilities (bike racks) at
a ratio of at least one bicycle parking space for every ten automobile parking
spaces or fraction thereof shall be provided.
            1.   No building or buildings sharing a parking area shall have
fewer than three bicycle parking spaces nor be required to exceed a maximum of
ten spaces.
            2.   Bicycle spaces shall be located within the parkway/street
furniture zone a maximum distance of 50 feet from the building entrance or
shall be located at least as close as the closest automobile space.
            3.   Each space shall include a metal anchor sufficient to secure
the bicycle frame when used in conjunction with a user-supplied lock.
   (B)   Development of corner lots.
      (1)   Block corners. Buildings on lots at block corners may be designed
with increased setbacks, greens, additional height and architectural
embellishments, such as corner towers, steeples or other features to emphasize
their location and serve as a visual focal point for the area subject to
Commission approval.
      (2)   Access corners. Parking access where developed with planting strips
and sidewalks increases the significance of the structures on either side. The
Commission encourages developers of these lots to design structures with
“front” facades facing both the primary street and the parking access and to
fully utilize the design advantages of a building corner with such
embellishments as corner doorways, triangular-shaped patios or plazas.
   (C)   Buildings that are set back to ten feet from the sidewalk shall use
the increased area between the front facade and the sidewalk for landscaping,
seating, public art, street furniture, outdoor dining, outdoor display of
merchandise during business hours, or other similar uses.
   (D)   The town encourages the placement of street furniture along the paved
planting strip or along sidewalks with a width greater than eight feet.
   (E)   (1)   All HVAC systems, exhaust pipes or stacks, and elevator housing
shall be screened from view from the public right-of-way and from adjacent
properties by using walls, fencing, roof elements or landscaping.
      (2)   In no case will chain-link fencing be permitted.
   (F)   (1)   Solid metal security gates or solid roll-down metal windows
shall not be permitted. Link or grill type security devices shall be permitted
only if installed from the inside, within the window or doorframes.
      (2)   Security grills shall be recessed and concealed during normal
business hours.
   (G)   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, the provisions of
§§
154.060 through
154.083 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.060)
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
§ 154.115 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This zone is intended for only single-family residential use to
maintain the country atmosphere of the town.
   (B)   It allows for only single-family detached dwellings, churches and
civic buildings on lots greater in area than 0.25 acres.
(Prior Code, § 9.07.010)
§ 154.116 ALLOWED USES AND BUILDING TYPES.
   Single-family residences as well as out buildings that are accessory to this
use. Manufactured/mobile homes are not allowed in this zone.
(Prior Code, § 9.07.020)
§ 154.117 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Garages. All new dwelling structures shall have a garage, attached or
detached, at least 576 square feet in size. Garages must be constructed during
the two-year period of the first issued single family residence permit. No
final certificate of occupancy will be issued until construction is completed.
   (B)   Fences.
      (1)   A building permit is required for the construction or erection of a
fence in a Single-Family Residential Zone.
      (2)   Single family residence zoned lots shall not be fenced without a
principle habitable dwelling located on said lot.
      (3)   Chain link fences used to confine household pets (dog runs) are
exempt from the visibility requirements of §
154.066(D).
   (C)   Dog runs.
      (1)   No more than one dog run may be constructed or erected on a lot in
a Single-Family Residential Zone.
      (2)   A dog run may only be constructed or erected on a lot containing a
principal building.
      (3)   Dog runs may be constructed of materials such as chain link, rail
with plain wire, wood or materials compatible with the principal building.
      (4)   A dog run shall be placed entirely within 20 feet of the walls of a
principal or accessory building excluding the following areas:
         (a)   A dog run shall not be constructed, erected or extended into a
setback from a property line.
         (b)   A dog run shall not be constructed, erected or extended into the
portion of a lot lying between a contiguous public street and an extended line
(s) drawn coincident with the street facing facade(s) of the main body of the
principal building on the lot.
      (5)   A dog run that has not been used to confine household pets for a
period of six months or more shall be dismantled, debris removed, weeds
controlled and ground cover planted on exposed soil.
   (D)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   Only one accessory building structure of 600 square feet or larger
is allowed per lot.
      (2)   Storage containers are not allowed to serve as accessory buildings
or for use in any other capacity within the Single-Family Residential Zone.
(Prior Code, § 9.07.025; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 154.118 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS; SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
    Single-family dwellings shall meet all of the following dimensional and
bulk standards:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-895.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-897.png]
   (A)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)    Lot depth (A): 100 feet minimum.
      (2)    Lot width (B): 80 feet minimum except front property line shall be
20 feet minimum on cul-de-sacs and curves.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. Structure or structure parts including, but not
limited to, decks, porches and roof overhangs shall not be located any nearer
to a property line than:
      (1)    Street setback (C): 30 feet minimum from the front or side
property line along a street right-of-way.
      (2)    Side and rear lot line setbacks (D): ten feet minimum from the
side or rear property line unless lot adjoins a golf course or common
recreational area.
      (3)    Golf course/common recreational area: 30 feet minimum from common
property line.
      (4)    Twenty-five feet from the high-water mark of any stream.
      (5)    Thirty feet from any delineated wetland edge
   (C)   Structural dimensions.
      (1)   Primary dwelling height (F): 35 feet maximum.
      (2)   Accessory building height (G): 35 feet maximum.
      (3)   (a)   The minimum footprint for all new dwelling structures shall
not be less than 900 square feet excluding the building area of any attached
garage.
         (b)   Each lot zoned SFR with a residential dwelling must have one
attached or detached garage with a minimum of 576 square feet.
         (c)   One accessory building structure of 600 square feet or larger is
allowed with an approved building permit. Storage containers are not allowed.
         (d)   Section
154.083, Variance request and appeal procedures, will be utilized if adherence
is not possible as a result of existing natural features, to ensure development
on all lands.
      (4)   Appurtenances, such as cupolas, chimneys, antennas, above the roof
level not intended for human occupancy are permitted but in no event may exceed
ten feet in height and take up more than twenty-five percent of the roof area.
   (D)   Coverage.
      (1)   Maximum total building coverage: 30% of the gross lot area.
      (2)   Maximum total impervious surface coverage: 40% of the gross lot
area.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Two spaces minimum per primary dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 9.07.030; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-9-2024; Ord. 2024-20, passed
12-10-2024)
§ 154.119 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This Section establishes residential design
standards and design guidelines. They are intended to improve the quality and
compatibility of new development in established residential zones of the town.
      (1)   Design standards are required in addition to other requirements set
forth in this Title.
      (2)   In approving a project plan, the approving authority may impose
reasonable conditions consistent with the purpose and intent of this Section.
   (B)   Applicability. These standards and guidelines deal with open space
design and landscaping, building location and orientation, building mass and
scale, and building materials. The design standards and guidelines set forth in
this Section shall apply to all new residential buildings and uses located in
the town. The requirements of this Section shall apply in addition to other
applicable requirements of this Title. This Section shall not be interpreted to
supersede other requirements of the town which may impose more restrictive
requirements than this Section.
   (C)   Open space design and landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping in the front, back, and sides of a property shall be
used to reduce the impact of larger buildings on neighboring properties and to
buffer any rear surface parking areas. The town may require submission of a
landscape plan for review and approval.
      (2)   Parking shall not be allowed in the front yard setback other than
in the driveway.
   (D)   Building location and orientation.
      (1)   The siting of new structures shall consider the privacy of
adjoining properties. Street, side, and rear setbacks beyond zoning minimums
may need adjustments. A site elevation and/or topographical plan may be
required.
      (2)   The primary entry of the building shall be oriented to the street.
         (a)   All structures shall have one primary entry that faces the
street.
         (b)   Foundations shall be raised above final grade a minimum of 18
inches.
         (c)   The primary entrance shall be clearly defined by use of a raised
porch or other similar entry features oriented to the street.
         (d)   The dimensions of the porch shall be compatible with the scale
of the building façade with porch width being no smaller than 20% of the width
of the building.
   (E)   Building mass and scale.
      (1)   To minimize perceived building scale, any single family dwelling
taller than 15 feet shall have the front face of the building composed of more
than one wall plane. Each wall plane shall have a minimum width of 20% of the
entire front facing dwelling length.
   (F)   Architectural materials.
      (1)   Architectural materials. The following materials are permitted on
visible exterior walls of single-family dwellings within the residential zone:
         (a)   Brick and tile masonry;
         (b)   Stucco (cementitious finish);
         (c)   Native stone (or synthetic equivalent);
         (d)   Pre-cast masonry (for trim and cornice elements only);
         (e)   Gypsum reinforced fiber concrete (for trim elements only);
         (f)   Metal (for beams, lintels, trim elements and ornamentation
only); no ribbed metal panel, corrugated metal panel or standing-seam metal
panel is allowed for siding.
         (g)   Wood lap siding;
         (h)   Logs (or synthetic equivalent); and
         (i)   Concrete composite siding.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 154.120 OTHER STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter the provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.083 shall also apply. Churches and civic buildings shall meet the
requirements for community and civic buildings in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
(Prior Code, § 9.07.050)
PRIVATE RECREATIONAL ZONE
 § 154.130 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Private Recreational Zone (PR) is to provide
specialized commercial services in conjunction with private recreational use.
   (B)   The size and intensity of development or facilities and uses within
this zone shall be commensurate with the capability of land and water areas to
support the uses intended and shall not result in any unusual service demands
on the town.
   (C)   This zone is intended to apply to non-profit membership-based
organizations and institutions.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010)
§ 154.131 BUILDING TYPES.
   (A)   Single- and multi-story structures are allowed.
   (B)   Structures shall generally relate in scale and design features to the
surrounding buildings, showing respect for the local context relying on the
design standards set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   As a general rule, multiple adjacent buildings shall reflect a
continuity of treatment obtained by maintaining the building scale or by subtle
graduation changes, and by echoing architectural styles, details, design
themes, building materials and colors used in surrounding buildings where such
buildings represent the rural character and architecture of western towns.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.020)
§ 154.132 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Private recreational facilities are considered commercial/community
facilities for the purposes of this chapter and shall meet the requirements of
§§
154.095 through
154.100: Commercial/community facilities, except as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Structures and lots shall meet all of the following dimensional and
bulk standards: see the figure in §
154.117.)
      (1)   Minimum lot size: the minimum lot size for any use shall be one-
half acre.
      (2)   Depth-to-width ratio: the maximum depth-to-width ratio for any
newly created lot shall be 3:1.
      (3)   Street setback (C): 30 feet minimum from the structure to the
street right-of-way line.
      (4)   Side lot setbacks (D): 30 feet minimum from the structure to the
edge of adjacent residential property or ten feet to the edge of commercially
zoned property.
      (5)   Rear lot setback (E): 30 feet minimum from the structure to the
edge of adjacent residential property or ten feet to the edge of commercially
zoned property.
      (6)   Building height (F): the maximum building height for all structures
shall be 45 feet;
      (7)   Appurtenances such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators and chimneys that are usually required to be placed above
the roof level and not intended for human occupancy are not subject to the
height limitations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.030)
§ 154.133 OTHER STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.083 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.040)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-874.png]
PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE
§ 154.145 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Public Facilities (PF) Zone is to define those
areas wherein town buildings, structures, storage yards, parks, public services
and commercial uses are located and to provide general guidelines for
development within those areas.
   (B)   In recognition of the four types of facilities required by the town,
the PF Zone consists of:
      (1)   Public-oriented facilities, such as Town Hall, Public Safety and
Mail Center;
      (2)   Support-oriented facilities, such as maintenance yards;
      (3)   Recreational facilities, such as parks and community centers; and
      (4)   Partial facility leases for public services or commercial
activities.
(Prior Code, § 9.09.010)
§ 154.146 USES.
   Any use appropriate to and required by common municipal practices.
(Prior Code, § 9.09.020)
§ 154.147 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public-oriented facilities are considered commercial/community
buildings for the purposes of this chapter and shall meet the requirements of
§§
154.095 through
154.100, Commercial/community facilities, except as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Whenever possible, public facilities will not be located
adjacent to residential zones.
         (b)   Lot size shall exceed 0.3 acres.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-876.png]
 
      (2)   Lot setbacks. See illustration above.
         (a)    Public-oriented facilities should have setbacks appropriate the
location, prominence and use of the structure.
         (b)    Support oriented and recreational facilities.
            1.   Street setback (C): 30 feet from edge of the structure,
developed area or perimeter fence to the street right-of-way or setback
required by the adjacent non-residential zone.
            2.   Side lot setback (D): 30 feet from edge of the structure,
developed area or perimeter fence to edge of residentially zoned property or
that of the adjacent non-residential zone, whichever is less.
            3.   Rear lot setback (E): 30 feet from edge of the developed area
or perimeter fence to edge of residentially zoned area or that of the adjacent
non-residential zone, whichever is less.
      (3)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks are not required with exception that when an
adjacent zone requires sidewalks, a contiguous sidewalk shall be placed across
the width of the public-facility lot.
      (4)   Fences. Chain link fences are permitted for security and safety
purposes only.
      (5)   Parking. Public facilities shall have sufficient off-street parking
for employees and the public.
      (6)   Windows. Municipal structures are exempt from the window
requirements in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (C)   Support oriented facilities. Street facing building facades shall meet
the requirements of §
154.096(A) through (C) and §
154.100(A)(1), except when:
      (1)   The façade is screened from the street by trees and shrubs; and
      (2)   The building is within a perimeter fence.
(Prior Code, § 9.09.030)
§ 154.148 OTHER STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.083 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9.09.040)
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE MR-1
§ 154.160 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of the MR-1 Zone regulations are:
   (A)   To reserve appropriately located areas for a mix of one- and two-
family residential dwellings that preserves many of the desirable
characteristics of the single-family residential zone while permitting higher
population densities and provides opportunities for single-family cluster
housing developments, thereby allowing a wider variety of housing types;
   (B)   To minimize traffic congestion;
   (C)   To avoid the overloading of utilities; and
   (D)   To provide one- and two-family residential areas that are safe,
attractive, quiet and that contain open space and adequate parking. Because of
the higher density allowed by this zone, it should be located in areas of low
topographic relief and shall have ready access to a county arterial road and
nearby public/community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010)
§ 154.161 ALLOWED USES AND BUILDING TYPES.
   (A)   Building types.
      (1)   Single and multi-story buildings that are appropriate to the
allowed use.
      (2)   Accessory buildings appropriate to an allowed use.
      (3)   Manufactured/mobile homes may be an allowed use when anchored to a
permanent approved, continuous foundation.
   (B)   Allowed uses.
      (1)   Two-family (duplex) residential;
      (2)   Single-family residential;
      (3)   Townhouse residential not exceeding four housing units per
building;
      (4)   Religious institutions;
      (5)   State-licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer persons, or a
group family day care facility, licensed under Wyoming’s Rules, W.S. § 9-2-2104
(a)(vii), W.S. § 14-4-104 and W.S. §§ 16-3-101 et seq. (1999) and the State
Administrative Rules for Certification of Child Care Facilities Chapters 1-11
serving 12 or fewer children. Care facilities located within the MR-1 District
shall be subject to the same zoning regulations as two-family dwellings in the
MR-1 District;
      (6)   State-licensed residential care facility serving six or fewer
persons; and
      (7)   Licensed under Department of Health requirements. Care facilities
located within the MR-1 District shall be subject to the same zoning
regulations as two-family dwellings in the MR-1 District.
   (C)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)    Any land use not allowed above shall be prohibited unless the use
is found to be substantially similar to a use listed in this code by the
Commission.
      (2)   Landowners may petition the Commission for a determination of a
substantially similar use. The request must be made ten days prior to a
regularly scheduled Commission meeting. Decisions of the Commission may be
appealed to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020)
§ 154.162 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compatibility with other zones. Unless stated elsewhere in this
section, the requirements presented in the sections listed below apply to this
zone:
      (1)   Sections
154.060 through
154.083, General requirements;
      (2)   Sections
154.095 through
154.100, Commercial/community facility applies to community structures;
      (3)   Sections
154.115 through
154.119, single-family residential zone; and
      (4)   Section
154.081, Public facilities.
   (B)   Open space requirement. Each development within the MR-1 zone shall
provide open space that is at least 15% of the gross development area or 500
square feet per housing unit, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Locational constraints.
      (1)   Development shall be contiguous to an arterial road.
      (2)   Development should be located in an area of low topographic relief.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.025)
§ 154.163 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum area of each housing unit: 900 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum parcel areas:
      (1)   Single-family residential: 6,700 square feet (0.16 acre);
      (2)   Two-family residential: 10,000 square feet (0.23 acre); and
      (3)   Non-residential: 40,000 square feet (0.92 acre).
   (C)   Minimum parcel dimensions (illustrated in Figure 9.12.030).
      (1)   Lot width:
         (a)   Single-family: 50 feet. A
         (b)   Duplex: 75 feet. A
         (c)   Non-residential: 150 feet. A
      (2)   Lot depth: 100 feet. B
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   Street side:
         (a)   Residential: 20 feet. C
         (b)   Non-residential: 30 feet. C
      (2)   Interior side:
         (a)   Residential: ten feet. D
         (b)   Non-residential: 30 feet. D
      (3)   Rear:
         (a)   Residential: 25 feet. E
         (b)   Non-residential: 30 feet. E
      (4 )   Accessory building setback.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-878.png]
 
Note: Lots drawn to minimum lot dimensions; minimum lot areas are larger than
those drawn.
         (a)   Residential:
            1.   Street side: 20 feet.
            2.   Interior side: five feet. F
            3.   Rear: three feet. G
         (b)   Non-residential:
            1.   Street side: 30 feet.
            2.   Interior side: ten feet. F
            3.   Rear: ten feet. G
   (E)   Coverage.
      (1)   Maximum building coverage: 40%.
      (2)   Maximum impervious area: 50%.
   (F)   Parking: on-street parking is not allowed. The development design and
lot areas shall provide for off-street parking for at least two vehicles per
housing unit. Such parking area shall not be considered as open space.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.030)
§ 154.164 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations as specified in §
154.006 are allowed.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.040) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.165 OTHER STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.083 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.050)
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE MR-2
§ 154.180 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of the MR-2 Zone regulations are:
   (A)   To allow for higher population densities than MR-1;
   (B)   To provide areas for a mix of residential buildings, (including multi-
family residences, apartments, condominiums, duplexes/townhouses and single-
family residences - including cluster housing, that preserve desirable
characteristics of a residential zone;
   (C)   To minimize traffic congestion;
   (D)   To avoid the overloading of utilities; and
   (E)   To provide a residential area that is safe, attractive, quiet and
contains open space and adequate parking.
(Prior Code, § 9.13.010)
§ 154.181 ALLOWED USES AND BUILDING TYPES AND USES.
   (A)   Building types.
      (1)   Single and multi-story buildings that are appropriate to the
allowed use; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings appropriate to the allowed use.
   (B)   Allowed uses.
      (1)   Multi-family residential apartments with two to12 housing units;
      (2)   Two-family (duplex) residential;
      (3)   Single-family residential;
      (4)   Townhouse residential with no more than four housing units per
building;
      (5)   Religious institutions;
      (6)   Schools;
      (7)   State-licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer persons, or a
group family day care facility, licensed under state rules, W.S. § 9-2-2104(a)
(vii), W.S. § 14-4-104 and W.S. §§ 16-3-101 et. seq. (1999) and the State
Administrative Rules for Certification of Child Care Facilities Chapters 1-11.
Care facilities located within the MR-2 District shall be subject to the same
zoning regulations as multi-family dwellings in the MR-2 District;
      (8)   State-licensed residential care facilities serving up to six
persons or a housing with services establishment registered under Wyoming’s
Rules serving up to six persons. Licensed under Department of Health
Requirements. Care facilities located in the MR-2 District shall be subject to
the same zoning regulations as multi-family dwellings in the MR-2 District; and
      (9)   Accessory uses, including, but not limited to: open parking or
garages; swimming pools; tennis courts and similar recreational facilities; and
storage buildings
   (C)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)    Any land use not allowed above shall be prohibited unless the use
is found to be substantially similar to a use listed in this code by the
Commission.
      (2)   Landowners may petition the Commission for a determination of a
substantially similar use. The request must be made ten days prior to a
regularly scheduled Commission meeting. Decisions of the Commission may be
appealed to the Town Council.
§ 154.182 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compatibility with other zones. Unless stated elsewhere in this
section, the requirements presented in the sections listed below apply to this
zone:
      (1)   Sections
154.060 through
154.083, General regulations;
      (2)   Section
154.081, public and community facilities;
      (3)   Sections
154.095 through
154.100, Commercial/community facilities zone: (applies to community
structures); and
      (4)   Sections
154.115 through
154.119, Single-family residential zone.
   (B)   Open space requirement. Each development in the MR-2 Zone shall
provide open space that is at least 15% of the gross development area or 500
square feet per housing unit, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 9.13.025)
§ 154.183 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum area of housing unit: the minimum footprint area of a housing
unit shall be as follows.
      (1)   Single-family and two-family residences: 900 square feet each; and
      (2)   Multi-family apartments (square feet unit).
         (a)   Efficiency: 400;
         (b)   One-bedroom: 550;
         (c)   Two-bedroom: 750; and
         (d)   More than two bedrooms: add 150 square feet/bedroom to that
required for a two-bedroom housing unit.
   (B)   Dimensional regulations for multi-family residences.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 15,000 square feet (#1)
      (2)   Minimum lot dimensions (#2).
         (a)   Width: 75 feet. (A)
         (b)   Depth: 100 feet. (B)
      (3)   Minimum coverage.
         (a)   Maximum building area: 50%.
         (b)   Maximum impervious area: 70%.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks.
         (a)   Street side: 20 feet. (C)
         (b)   Interior side: ten feet. (D)
         (c)   Rear: 25 feet. (E)
      (5)   Setback requirements. Setbacks may be reduced when the following
conditions are met.
         (a)   The applicant can demonstrate that a superior design is achieved
through the reduced setback. Evidence of a superior design may include, but is
not limited to, the preservation of a natural feature, creation of an amenity,
creation of additional public open space, or incorporation of special features
to meet the needs of the target population;
         (b)   The reduced setback does not adversely affect the surrounding
neighborhood in terms of noise, overcrowding, a decrease in privacy or other
similar impacts; and
         (c)   The impact of the reduced setback is minimized through the
presence of features such as landscaping or other means of buffering, a limited
number of building openings in the portion of the structure that infringes upon
the setback, building orientation, minimized garage door dominance or other
similar features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-880.png]
 
      (5)   Setback requirements. Setbacks may be reduced when the following
conditions are met.
         (a)   The applicant can demonstrate that a superior design is achieved
through the reduced setback. Evidence of a superior design may include, but is
not limited to, the preservation of a natural feature, creation of an amenity,
creation of additional public open space, or incorporation of special features
to meet the needs of the target population;
         (b)   The reduced setback does not adversely affect the surrounding
neighborhood in terms of noise, overcrowding, a decrease in privacy or other
similar impacts; and
         (c)   The impact of the reduced setback is minimized through the
presence of features such as landscaping or other means of buffering, a limited
number of building openings in the portion of the structure that infringes upon
the setback, building orientation, minimized garage door dominance or other
similar features.
   (C)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   No on- street parking is allowed. A minimum of two off-street
parking spaces shall be provided for each housing unit.
      (2)   Off-street parking for townhouses shall be in either a single- or
double-car garage.
      (3)   Off-street parking for apartment buildings:
         (a)    Parking areas shall be located to the rear (alley side) of the
building;
         (b)   Parking areas shall be accessed by a single driveway to the
street or alley;
         (c)   Garage entrances shall face the alley and be accessed by either
a driveway to the alley or a single driveway to the street; and
         (d)    The Commission, at its discretion, may reduce the minimum
required parking to not less than one and one-half parking spaces per housing
unit for apartment buildings and townhouse complexes with seven or more housing
units, after consideration of factors including, but not limited to, the
present or future availability of transit services, shared parking, pedestrian
orientation, and occupancy characteristics. In addition, the Commission may
further reduce the parking requirement for senior housing complexes. 
(Prior Code, § 9.13.030)
§ 154.184 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations as specified in §
154.006 are allowed.
(Prior Code, § 9.13.040) (Ord. 2021-18, passed 12-15-2021)
§ 154.185 OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Limit to number of efficiency units. No more than 20% of the housing
units in any one building shall be efficiency units.
   (B)   Performance standards of §§
154.095 through
154.100. Developments shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
the applicable performance standards set out in §§
154.095 through
154.100.
   (C)   Overlay area. All property located within an overlay area shall be
subject to requirements of such overlay.
   (D)   Additional requirements. In addition to the requirements of this
subchapter, the provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.083 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9.13.050)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ZONE; RESIDENTIAL AND MIXED USE
§ 154.220 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Planned Development Zone - Residential and Mixed
Use is to create unique opportunities for growth in ways that blend a mix of
occupational and architectural possibilities and site sizes.
   (B)   This would promote efficient and symbiotic uses of private property
and structures where appropriate, in order to preserve open space for scenic,
agricultural and recreational uses.
   (C)   The efficient use will result in smaller networks of utilities and
streets, thereby lowering development costs and provide a maximum choice in the
type of environment for working and living available to the public.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.010)
§ 154.221 WHERE PERMITTED.
   Planned Development Zone - Residential and Mixed Use shall have ready access
to an existing commercial zone.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.020)
§ 154.222 ALLOWED USES AND BUILDING TYPES.
   Single- and multi-story buildings are allowed but shall relate in scale and
design to surrounding buildings. As a general rule, the development shall
reflect continuity by echoing architectural styles, details, design themes,
building materials and colors used in surrounding buildings where such
buildings represent the rural character of western towns.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.030)
§ 154.223 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to qualify for consideration as a Planned Development Zone -
Residential and Mixed Use, the following minimum requirements shall be met.
   (A)   Siting requirements.
      (1)   Lot configuration. The tract(s) of land for which the project is
proposed shall be a common site with sufficient width and depth to accommodate
the proposed use.
      (2)   The site shall have access to an arterial road. The site shall have
access to community water and sewer or be able to provide these services on
site.
   (B)   Project requirements.
      (1)   The proposal must constitute a residential or mixed-use
development. For purposes of this section, a residential development is a
project that promotes more efficient use of space and infrastructure,
encourages a variety of residential dwelling types and lot sizes; and a mixed-
use development is a single unified development that incorporates the planned
integration of commercial and residential land uses. Developments shall relate
harmoniously to the topography of the area and suitable provisions must be made
to retain such natural features and amenities to the fullest extent possible.
      (2)   The uses in a planned residential development and a planned mixed-
use development shall fit harmoniously with adjacent zones.
      (3)   The uses shall be consistent with those in the community overlay to
minimize incompatibilities or health and safety concerns.
      (4)   In the case where the development application is accompanied by a
request for rezone, the permitted uses in the proposed development shall be the
same as those allowed under the new zoning designation if the request for
rezoning is approved. Conditional uses within the applicable underlying zoning
district may be authorized through the development approval process.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.040)
§ 154.224 DIMENSIONAL AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   For planned development. Single-family residential, the bulk standards
for single-family residential shall apply (see §
154.117).
   (B)   For planned development. Multiple-Family Residential, the bulk
standards for Multiple- Family Residential shall apply.
   (C)   For planned development. Mixed use, the bulk standards for Commercial/
Community Facilities shall apply (see §
154.098).
(Prior Code, § 9.17.050)
§ 154.225 OTHER STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, the provisions of §§
154.060 through
154.083, shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.060)
PLAT AMENDMENTS
§ 154.240 REQUEST FOR AMENDING A PLAT.
   An amendment to plats within the town may be initiated by application of one
or more property owners for or on behalf of their property within the town’s
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9.19.010)
§ 154.241 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Applications from a property owner shall be filed with the Planning
Commission on the specified forms and accompanied by necessary data and
information to ensure the fullest presentation of the facts.
   (B)   The data and information shall cover the following points in addition
to requirements identified elsewhere in this chapter:
      (1)   Describe any special circumstances that exist for the land for
which the plat amending is sought;
      (2)   Describe how current property dimensions for the specified land
would deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the land;
      (3)   Describe how amending the plat allows a reasonable use of the land;
      (4)   Evidence that the proposal will not increase the cost to the public
for providing services;
      (5)   Plot plans as specified on application form;
      (6)   Fees and deposits included; and
      (7)   Written approval of the utility companies (water, electric,
telephone) if utility easements are to be relocated or eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 9.19.020; Ord. 2025-01, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 154.242 LIMITATIONS.
   A plat amendment that requires the least modification to a plat will be the
preferred alternative when more than one alternative will solve the perceived
problem with the present plat. No application from a property owner for the
same property that has been denied by the town shall be received or processed
by the town within one year from the date of such denial except by unanimous
vote by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.19.030; Ord. 2025-01, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 154.243 FEE AND DEPOSIT SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A non-refundable plan review permit and inspection fee in the amount
specified will be charged.
   (B)   Plat amendment fee is reviewed annually as part of the town budget
process and may be changed by resolution. The fee is found in the fee schedule
published by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.19.040; Ord. 2025-01, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 154.244 PROCEDURES FOR AMENDING A PLAT.
   (A)    An application for amending a plat shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   A complete amended plat application must include the proposed amended
plat and other required documents and survey markers must be in place for
review by the Planning Commission. To be placed on the Planning Commission’s
agenda, the application must be received a minimum of two weeks in advance of a
regular Planning Commission meeting. Regular Planning Commission meetings are
held the second and fourth Wednesday of each month. The Planning Commission may
have the application reviewed by a third party.
   (C)   Subdividing previously combined lots, creation of new lot(s).
      (1)   Only lots that were combined with the Procedures for Amending a
Plat shall be eligible for subdividing.
      (2)   Any newly created lot shall have the same governance and
restrictions as were in effect prior to the subdividing.
      (3)   No structures shall remain on the newly created lot(s) that
violates or conflicts with any Town Ordinance.
      (4)   Lot(s) size shall be no smaller than that allowed in their
respective Zoning District.
      (5)   A Plant Investment Fee shall be required. See Title V, Water
Utility, Chapter 50 Regulations, Section Plant Investment Fee.
   (D)   Public involvement and hearing.
      (1)   For all plat amendments, all property owners within 300 feet of
every boundary of the property being requested for adjustment shall be notified
of the pending amended plat application and of a public hearing to be held. The
town will notify affected property owners within 300 feet of every boundary of
the property being requested for adjustment and any homeowner’s association by
mail at least 30 days in advance of the scheduled hearing. The above-mentioned
property owners and any homeowner’s association may give written comment
expressing consent or dissent to the proposed changes.
      (2)   The application will be reviewed by the Planning Commission at such
time as all necessary information pertinent to the application is received. The
Planning Commission will schedule and conduct a public hearing, to be held
during a regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting, to decide on a
recommendation to the Town Council on the amended plat application. Oral and
written comments from the adjoining property owners, public and other
interested parties will be considered by the Planning Commission at that
hearing.
      (3)   After the hearing, the Planning Commission will consider the public
comments and other pertinent information and make a recommendation to the Town
Council. This recommendation will be presented to the Town Council at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. The Planning Commission reserves the right to
table the application until such time as it has all necessary information
pertaining to the application.
   (E)   The Town Council shall entertain a motion to approve, deny or table
the application as well as hear any new and relevant evidence from the
applicant, neighbors, and other concerned citizens before taking final action
on an application.
   (F)   The applicant or his or her representative is responsible for
recording an approved amended plat with the County Clerk’s office.(Prior Code,
§ 9.19.050) (Ord. 2021-15, passed 8-18-2021; Ord. 2025-01, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 154.245 SURVEYOR REQUIREMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Be a state licensed surveyor.
   (G)   Produce an amended subdivision plat according to the requirements of
the town, the county and the state.
   (C)   Stake new (final) lot corners.
   (D)   Produce a recordable final plat map, to scale, on Mylar (polyester),
Architectural D size (24 inches by 36 inches), with a minimum scale of:
      (1)   Vicinity map not to exceed one inch equals 1,000 feet, but not less
than one inch equals 500 feet; and
      (2)   Detail map for lots less than one acre, one inch equals 30 feet;
and for lots larger than one acre, not to exceed one inch equals 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 9.19.060)
APPENDIX A: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
   The following uses are allowed (permitted uses or P) or with permission of
the town with appropriate conditions (conditional uses or C) or not permitted
(NP). Any use that is not listed below is expressly not permitted in the
commercial zone.
 Use Status
      Use                                                               Status
       Motels and hotels, including accessory uses intended to serve
(1)    only the hotel or motel, such as newsstands, gift shops and       C
       similar incidental uses conducted entirely within the principal
       building
(2)    Offices                                                           P
(3)    Membership clubs, not conducted primarily for gain                P
(4)    Public and private golf courses                                   NP
       Private indoor or outdoor recreation and amusement including
(5)    miniature golf putting courses, driving ranges, water slides, go  C
       cart tracks and other similar uses
       Restaurants, including the sale of alcoholic beverage with meals
(6)    and which may include meal service on an outside patio, not       P
       including drive-in restaurants
(7)    Drive-in restaurants                                              C
(8)    Automobile parking lots and parking structures, as a principal    C
       use
(9)    Duplicating and printing services whose building or use does not  P
       exceed 5,000 square feet in total floor area
(10)   Art or craft studio space and accessory gallery                   P
(11)   Municipal-state or federal facilities and buildings               P
(12)   Public parks and playgrounds                                      P
(13)   Gasoline stations without repair or service facilities            C
(14)   Gasoline service stations including repair and service facilities C
       (but not including paint and body shops)
       Personal service outlets, including barber and beauty shops, shoe
(15)   repair shops, self-service laundries, dry cleaning outlets,       P
       appliance repair, travel agencies and photographic studios
       Establishments for the retailing of goods, including, but not
(16)   limited to, clothing, grocery, sporting goods, hardware,          P
       electronic, variety and specialty stores, where the building or
       use does not exceed 5,000 square feet in total floor area
       Establishments for the retailing of goods, including, but not
       limited to, clothing, sporting goods, hardware, electronic,
(17)   variety and specialty stores, where the building or use is        C
       greater than 5,000 square feet but does not exceed 25,000 square
       feet in total floor area
       Establishments for the retailing of goods, including, but not
(18)   limited to, department stores, furniture stores, catalog stores,  C
       superstores and retail warehouse/wholesale club where the
       building or use exceeds 25,000 square feet in total floor area
(19)   Supermarkets exceeding 25,000 square feet in total floor area     C
(19.1) Supermarkets less than 25,000 square feet in total floor area     C
(20)   Indoor amusement and entertainment establishments, including, but C
       not limited to, theaters, video arcades, bowling alley
(20.1) Gaming establishments                                             NP
(21)   Recreation and athletic membership clubs                          P
       Vehicle sales, recreational vehicle sales, mobile home sales and
(22)   vehicle accessory dealers and repair services excluding junk      NP
       yards
(22.1) Vehicle sales, recreational vehicle sales and vehicle accessory   NP
       dealers and repair services excluding junk yards
       Drive-in, walk-up and drive-up facilities, such as banks and
(23)   automatic teller machines, liquor stores, photo stores and        C
       cleaning establishments
(24)   Financial institutions, including banks, savings and loans,       P
       finance companies and similar uses
(25)   Mortuaries and funeral chapels and accessory uses                 C
       Commercial uses including, without limitation, animal hospitals
       with indoor kennels, cold storage lockers, rental establishments,
(26)   car washes, service garages, auto repair, welding services, if    C
       there are adequate safeguards to protect adjoining properties
       from objectionable or harmful substances, conditions or
       operations
(27)   Single unit detached and dwellings on ground floor                NP
(28)   Dwellings on floors above and below, the ground floor             NP
(29)   Mini-self storage facilities                                      NP
(30)   Churches and places of worship                                    P
(31)   Lumber yards, building and plumbing supplies                      C
(32)   Day care centers and child educational facilities                 P
(33)   Public and private educational facilities and institutions        P
(34)   Transportation centers for buses, taxis or trains                 C
(35)   Windmills for generation of electrical power                      NP
(36)   Package liquor stores                                             C
(37)   Bars, cocktail lounges, taverns                                   C
(38)   Microbrewery                                                      C
(39)   Building contractors and equipment                                C
(40)   Woodworking and similar uses                                      C
(41)   Freight delivery, and pick-up                                     C
(42)   Greenhouse nursery stock production and sales                     P
(43)   Light manufacturing, processing and assembly                      C
(44)   Adult uses including entertainment and retail establishments      NP
P = permitted    C = conditional   NP = not permitted
 
(Prior Code, § 9-AppA)
APPENDIX B: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29598a18ae6e2579ade8f2d28ba7dce2345d61f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1858.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 9-AppB)
APPENDIX C: LOTS OR LOTS APPROVED FOR SPECIAL USE
   The followings lots or lots are approved for special use (prior and
grandfathered).
Star Valley Ranch Subdivision Zoned Special Use Ordinance/Date
Star Valley Ranch  Zoned         Special Use        Ordinance/Date
Subdivision
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered      Ord. 2012-06, 9-11-2012; §
Plat 13 - Lot 38   Residential   Recreational       9.05.180
                                 Activities
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered Golf Ord. 2012-06, 9-11-2012; §
Plat 17 - Lot 1    Residential   Course Maintenance 9.05.180
                                 and Building
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered      Ord. 2012-06, 9-12-2012; §
Plat 17 - Lot 11   Residential   Recreational       9.05.180
                                 Activities
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered      Ord. 2012-06, 9-12-2012; §
Plat 17 - Lot 12   Residential   Recreational       9.05.180
                                 Activities
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered      Ord. 2012-06, 9-12-2012; §
Plat 17 - Lot 13   Residential   Recreational       9.05.180
                                 Activities
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered      Ord. 2012-06, 9-12-2012; §
Plat 17 - Lot 14   Residential   Recreational       9.05.180
                                 Activities
                                 Prior and
Originally Platted Single-Family Grandfathered      Ord. 2012-06, 9-12-2012; §
Plat 17 - Lot 85   Residential   Recreational       9.05.180
                                 Activities
 
(Prior Code, § 9-AppC)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2017-2   8-9-2017       Vacates a portion of Cedar Creek Drive
                       
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Annexes land lying contiguous with and adjacent to the
2008-07  8-12-2008      town, said property being described as: the SE1/4 NE1/
                        4 of Section 6, T34N, R118W, of the 6th P.M, Lincoln
                        County, Wyoming containing 40 acres more or less
                        Annexes land lying contiguous with and adjacent to the
                        town, said property being described as: Lots 1 through
2009-01  1-13-2009      5 of the Bridger Mountain Subdivision, Phase 1, being
                        part of Section 31, T35N, R118W, Lincoln County,
                        Wyoming containing 6.75 acres more or less
                        Annexes land lying contiguous with and adjacent to the
                        town, said property being described as: that part of
2015-09  9-9-2015       GLO Lot 2 and part of the SW1/4 NE1/4 of Section 5,
                        T34N, R118W, Lincoln County, Wyoming, being all of that
                        tract of record in the Office of the Clerk of the
                        county in Book 851 of Photostatic Records on page 82
                        Annexes land lying contiguous with and adjacent to the
                        town, said property being described as: the part of the
                        SW1/4 NE1/4 and that part of the NW1/4 of Section 24,
2016-09  1-4-2017       T35N, R119W of the 6th P.M. Lincoln County, Wyoming,
                        being all of Lot 4 of Howard Woods Limited Subdivision,
                        of record in the Office of the Clerk of the county with
                        Accession No. 862980
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Wyoming Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WYOMING STATUTES
W.S. Reference Code Section
W.S. Reference              Code Section
Title 5, Chapter 6          32.09
7-2-105                     94.07
9-2-2104(a)(vii)            154.161,
                            154.181
9-4-820                     34.21,
                            34.28
9-4-821                     34.21,
                            34.28
9-4-831                     34.28
9-4-831(h)                  34.21
                            111.01,
Title 12                    111.03,
                            111.06 through
                            111.08
12-2-106                    111.02
12-4-201                    111.13
12-4-407                    111.13
12-4-413                    111.13
12-4-502                    111.13
14-4-104                    154.161,
                            154.181
Title 15, Articles 5 and 6  33.007
15-1-103                    30.01
15-1-103(a)(1)              32.21
15-1-103(a)(xiii)           110.01
15-1-103(xliv)(l)           90.03
15-1-401 through 15-1-422   151.02
15-1-402(i)                 151.04
15-1-402(ii)                151.04
15-1-402(iii)               151.04
15-1-402(c)                 151.04
15-1-405                    151.04
15-1-405(a)                 151.04
15-1-407                    151.04
15-1-410                    151.04
15-2-102(b)(iv)(C)          32.03
15-3-204(b)(iv)(C)          32.03
15-11-101 through 15-11-205 31.08
15-11-105(b)                31.01
                            110.09,
16-3-101 et seq.            154.161,
                            154.181
16-3-114                    94.05
18-5-306                    152.02
22-6                        31.03
22-15-105                   31.07
22-15-106                   31.07
22-20-104(b)                31.07
22-23-101 through 2-23-1007 31.08
22-23-103                   31.01
22-23-202                   31.02
22-23-801 through 22-23-809 31.07
23-1-101(xiii)              90.05
23-3-109                    90.05
31-1-101                    94.02,
                            154.075
31-5-101 through 31-5-1601  70.15
31-5-102                    70.18,
                            94.02
31-13-108                   94.07
31-13-109                   94.07
31-13-110                   94.07
31-15-102                   94.02,
                            154.075
34-12-101 to 34-12-104      152.02,
                            152.10
39-13-101(a)(iii)           90.27
41-13-101                   94.02,
                            154.075
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Reference 2020 Code Section
Prior Code Reference 2020 Code Section
1.08.010             150.001
2.04.010             31.01
2.04.020             31.02
2.04.030             31.03
2.04.040             31.04
2.04.050             31.05
2.04.060             31.06
2.04.070             31.07
2.04.080             31.08
2.16.010             33.001
2.16.020             33.002
2.16.030             33.003
2.16.040             33.004
2.16.050             33.005
2.16.060             33.006
2.16.070             33.007
2.16.120             33.008
2.18.010             33.045
2.18.020             33.046
2.18.030             33.047
2.18.040             33.048
2.18.050             33.049
2.18.060             33.050
2.18.070             33.051
2.18.080             33.052
2.18.090             33.053
2.19.010             33.065
2.19.020             33.066
2.19.030             33.067
2.19.040             33.068
2.19.050             33.069
2.19.080             33.070
2.20.010             33.085
2.20.020             33.086
2.20.030             33.087
2.20.040             33.088
2.20.050             33.090
2.20.060             33.091
3.A06.010            34.01
3.A06.020            34.02
3.A06.033            34.04
3.A06.036            34.05
3.A06.039            34.06
3.A08.010            34.20
3.A08.020            34.21
3.A08.030            34.22
3.A08.040            34.23
3.A08.050            34.24
3.A08.060            34.25
3.A08.070            34.26
3.A08.080            34.27
3.A08.090            34.28
3.A08.100            34.29
3.A08.110            34.30
3.A08.120            34.31
3.A08.130            34.32
3.A08.140            34.33
3.A08.150            34.34
4.04.010             51.01
4.04.020             51.02
4.04.030             51.03
4.04.040             51.04
4.04.050             51.05
4.04.060             51.06
4.04.070             51.07
4.06.010             52.01
4.06.020             52.02
4.06.030             52.03
4.06.032             52.04
4.06.034             52.05
4.06.036             52.06
4.06.038             52.07
5.01.010             70.01
5.03.010             70.15
5.03.020             70.16
5.03.030             70.17
5.03.040             70.18
5.03.050             70.19
5.03.060             70.20
5.04.010             71.01
5.04.020             71.02
5.04.030             71.03
5.04.040             71.04
5.04.050             71.05
5.04.060             71.06
5.04.070             71.07
5.05.010             72.01
5.05.020             72.02
5.05.030             72.03
5.05.040             72.04
5.05.050             72.05
6.01.005             150.015
6.01.010             150.016
6.01.020             150.017
6.01.030             150.018
6.01.040             150.019
6.01.050             150.020
6.01.060             150.021
6.01.070             150.022
6.01.080             150.023
6.02.005             150.035
6.02.010             150.036
6.02.020             150.037
6.02.030             150.038
6.02.040             150.039
6.02.050             150.040
6.03.005             150.055
6.03.010             150.056
6.03.020             150.057
6.03.030             150.058
6.03.040             150.059
6.03.050             150.060
6.04.010             150.075
6.05.010             150.076
6.06.010             150.077
6.07.010             150.078
6.08.010             150.079
6.09.010             150.080
6.10.010             150.081
8.01.010             92.01
8.01.020             92.02
8.01.030             92.03
8.01.040             92.04
8.01.050             92.05
8.01.060             92.06
8.01.070             92.07
9.01.010             154.001
9.01.020             154.002
9.01.030             154.003
9.01.040             154.004
9.01.055             154.006
9.01.060             155.007
9.01.070             154.008
9.01.090             154.009
9.02.010             154.025
9.02.020             154.026
9.03.010             154.040
9.03.020             154.041
9.03.030             154.042
9.03.040             154.043
9.03.050             154.044
9.03.060             154.045
9.04.010             154.010
9.04.020             154.010
9.04.030             154.010
9.05.010             154.060
9.05.020             154.061
9.05.030             154.062
9.05.040             154.063
9.05.050             154.064
9.05.060             154.065
9.05.070             154.066
9.05.080             154.068
9.05.090             154.069
9.05.100             154.070
9.05.110             154.071
9.05.120             154.072
9.05.130             154.073
9.05.140             154.074
9.05.150             154.075
9.05.160             154.076
9.05.170             154.077
9.05.180             154.078
9.05.190             154.079
9.05.200             154.080
9.05.300             154.081
9.06.010             154.095
9.06.020             154.096
9.06.030             154.097
9.06.040             154.098
9.06.050             154.099
9.06.060             154.100
9.07.010             154.115
9.07.020             154.116
9.07.025             154.116
9.07.030             154.117
9.07.040             154.118
9.08.010             154.130
9.08.020             154.131
9.08.030             154.132
9.08.040             154.133
9.09.010             154.145
9.09.020             154.146
9.09.030             154.147
9.09.040             154.148
9.12.010             154.160
9.12.020             154.161
9.12.025             154.162
9.12.030             154.163
9.12.040             154.164
9.12.050             154.165
9.13.010             154.180
9.13.020             154.181
9.13.025             154.182
9.13.030             154.183
9.13.040             154.184
9.13.050             154.185
9.17.010             154.220
9.17.020             154.221
9.17.030             154.222
9.17.040             154.223
9.17.050             154.224
9.17.060             154.225
9.19.010             154.240
9.19.020             154.241
9.19.030             154.242
9.19.040             154.243
9.19.050             154.244
9.19.060             154.245,
                     154.246
9-AppA               154.246
9-AppB               154.246
9-AppC               154.246
10.01.010            91.01
10.01.020            91.02
10.01.030            91.03
10.01.040            91.04
10.01.050            91.99
11.01.010            153.01
11.01.020            153.01
11.01.030            153.01
11.01.040            153.01
11.02.010            153.02
11.03.010            153.03
11.03.020            153.03
11.03.030            153.03
11.03.040            153.03
11.03.050            153.03
11.03.060            153.03
11.04.010            153.04
11.04.020            153.04
11.04.030            153.04
11.04.040            153.04
11.05.010            153.05
11.05.020            153.05
11.06.010            153.99
12.01.010            90.01
12.01.020            90.02
12.01.030            90.03
12.01.040            90.04
12.01.050            90.05
12.01.055            90.06
12.01.060            90.07
12.01.070            90.08
12.01.080            90.09
12.01.090            90.10
12.02.010            90.25
12.02.020            90.26
12.02.030            90.27
12.02.040            90.28
12.02.060            90.29
itle 13              35.01
14.01.010            151.01
14.01.020            151.02
14.01.030            151.03
14.01.040            151.04
14.01.050            151.05
14.01.060            151.06
14.01.070            151.07
14.01.075            151.08
14.01.080            151.09
14.01.090            151.10
14.01.100            151.11
14.01.110            151.12
14.01.120            151.13
14.01.130            151.14
14.01.140            151.15
14.01.150            151.16
14.01.160            151.17
14.01.170            151.18
14.02.010            152.01
14.02.020            152.02
14.02.030            152.03
14.02.035            152.04
14.02.040            152.05
14.02.050            152.06
14.02.060            152.07
14.02.065            152.08
14.02.070            152.09
14.02.080            152.10
14.02.090            152.11
14.02.100            152.12
14.02.110            152.13
14.02.120            152.14
14.02.130            152.15
14.02.140            152.16
14.02.150            152.17
14.02.160            152.18
14.02.200            152.19
14.02AppA            152.20
14.02B               152.21
15.010.010           30.01
15.01.020            30.02
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2006-02  5- -2006    31.01 through
                     31.08
2006-04  11-15-2006  33.001 through
                     33.008
2006-05  12-12-2006  70.15 through
                     70.20
2008-07  8-12-2008   TSO, Table II
2006-06  11-18-2008  71.01 through
                     71.07
2009-01  1-13-2009   TSO, Table II
2009-06  11-11-2009  72.01 through
                     72.05
2010-07  6-8-2010    150.001
                     91.01 through
2011-06  9-13-2011   91.04,
                     91.99
2011-07  9-13-2011   33.045 through
                     33.053
2011-10  10-11-2011  33.065 through
                     33.070
                     153.01 through
2011-09  1-1-2012    153.05,
                     153.99
2012-06  9-11-2012   154.010
2012-07  10-9-2012   33.007
2015-05  7-8-2015    90.01 through
                     90.10
2015-09  9-9-2015    TSO, Table II
                     70.01,
2016-01  4-13-2016   71.01,
                     71.06,
                     72.04
2016-02  4-13-2016   71.02
2016-02  5-11-2016   33.046,
                     33.053
2016-05  9-14-2016   90.25 through
                     90.29
2016-09  1-4-2017    TSO, Table II
2017-2   8-9-2017    TSO, Table I
2017-06  12-13-2017  33.046
2018-02  5-9-2018    91.03,
                     91.04
2018-03  5-22-2018   90.03,
                     90.06
2018-10  8-8-2018    151.01 through
                     151.18
2018-10  8-8-2018    152.01 through
                     152.21
2018-13  10-24-2018  33.065 through
                     33.070
2018-14  10-24-2018  34.01 through
                     34.06
                     33.085 through
2018-20  10-24-2018  33.088,
                     33.090,
                     33.091
2018-22  12-12-2018  34.20 through
                     34.34
2019-06  9-18-2019   154.083
                     110.01 through
2020-03  9-16-2020   110.10;
                     111.01 through
                     111.15
2020-05  10-21-2020  33.065 through
                     33.070
2020-08  12-16-2020  150.037
2021-01  3-17-2021   Adopting Ordinance
2021-06  6-15-2021   33.085 through
                     33.091
2021-08  6-15-2021   71.06
2021-10  6-15-2021   93.01
2021-11  8-18-2021   TSO, Table II
2021-12  8-18-2021   50.01 through
                     50.36
2021-13  8-18-2021   53.01 through 53.15
2021-15  8-18-2021   154.244
2021-16  9-15-2021   34.03
                     94.01 ,
                     94.02,
2021-17  10-20-2021  95.01 through
                     95.03,
                     96.01 through
                     96.26
                     154.002,
                     154.006,
                     154.010,
                     154.025,
                     154.066,
2021-18  12-15-2021  154.070,
                     154.071,
                     154.075,
                     154.079,
                     154.080,
                     154.164,
                     154.184
                     151.08,
                     152.01,
                     152.03,
2021-19  12-15-2021  152.05,
                     152.06,
                     152.13,
                     152.18,
                     152.21
2021-20  12-15-2021  112.01 through
                     112.08
2021-22  1-19-2022   35.01
2021-23  1-19-2022   150.076
2021-24  3-16-2022   113.01 through
                     113.05
                     50.26,
2021-25  1-19-2022   50.30,
                     50.36
2022-01  3-16-2022   154.062
2022-02  4-20-2022   112.03
2022-03  5-18-2022   50.35
2022-06  7-20-2022   90.05
2022-07  6-15-2022   50.35
2022-09  7-20-2022   35.01
2022-11  8-17-2022   53.12
                     71.02,
2022-12  10-19-2022  71.05,
                     72.04
                     112.01,
2022-13  10-19-2022  112.02,
                     112.04
                     150.075,
2022-14  10-19-2022  150.081,
                     150.082
2022-15  11-16-2022  113.05
2022-16  11-16-2022  35.01
2023-01  4-11-2023   33.002
2023-02  4-11-2023   90.03
2023-03  4-22-2023   72.03
2023-04  4-22-2023   154.073
2023-05  5-9-2023    150.075
                     33.001 through
                     33.007,
                     33.047 through
                     33.049,
                     33.051,
                     33.053,
2023-07  - -2023     33.067 through
                     33.069,
                     33.071,
                     33.085,
                     33.088 through
                     33.090,
                     33.092
2023-08  - -2023     33.110 through
                     33.116
2023-09  11-14-2023  33.120 through
                     33.126
2023-10  11-14-2023  150.020,
                     150.037
2023-11  12-12-2023  35.01
2023-12  1-9-2024    94.02 through
                     94.09
2024-01  3-12-2024   113.01 through
                     113.07
2024-02  4-9-2024    32.01 through
                     32.22
                     154.010,
2024-03  4-9-2024    154.117,
                     154.118
2024-04  5-14-2024   154.119
2024-06  6-11-2024   54.01
2024-07  7-9-2024    52.01 through
                     52.08
2024-10  7-9-2024    150.076
                     150.019,
                     150.021,
                     150.038,
2024-11  10-8-2024   150.039,
                     150.057,
                     150.058,
                     150.060
2024-12  12-10-2024  154.071
2024-13  12-10-2024  150.060
2024-14  12-10-2024  71.05
2024-15  12-10-2024  91.04
2024-18  12-10-2024  33.001 through
                     33.008
                     113.02,
2024-19  12-10-2024  113.03,
                     113.05 through
                     113.07
2024-20  12-10-2024  154.118
2024-21  1-14-2025   35.01
2025-01  3-11-2025   154.241 through
                     154.244
2025-03  5-13-2025   33.122
2025-04  7-8-2025    154.080
                     150.017,
                     150.075,
2025-06  7-8-2025    150.076,
                     150.078 through
                     150.082
                    
 
 
