TOWN CODE
OF
TEN SLEEP, WYOMING
Code current through:
Ord. 235, passed 7-10-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Ten Sleep, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 235, passed July 10, 2023. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 186
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE TEN SLEEP, WYOMING TOWN CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and town council of the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming
as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town
code of the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the town, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official town code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the town clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official town
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official town code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED ON FIRST READING THIS 8th day of November, 2012.
PASSED ON SECOND READING THIS 6th day of December, 2012.
PASSED ON THIRD READING THIS 1st day of January, 2013
Fred Firnekas
                                            
   Mayor
ATTEST:
Lori Hughes
                                            
   Town Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
TEN SLEEP TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Codification Authority
1-1-3: Acceptance
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the town council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official town code of Ten Sleep. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the TEN SLEEP TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the town council, and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (1986 Code § 1-101; amd. 2012 Code)
1-1-2: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the town codified pursuant to the provision of
Wyoming Statutes sections 15-1-103, 15-1-114, 15-1-115 and 15-1-116, as
amended. (2012 Code)
1-1-3: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2012 Code)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2012 Code)
1-1-5: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the town
clerk-treasurer when directed so to do by order of the town council. (2012
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings; Effect Of Repeal
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of
the town indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for town officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      9.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the town.
      10.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the same
extent as if fully set out herein. (2012 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2012 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS; EFFECT OF REPEAL:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2012 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the town council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or any code adopted herein, or of
any ordinance in this code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. (1986 Code § 1-104;
amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first and including the last day unless the last
day is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case the period shall
run until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May, Must And Shall: The word "may" is permissive, and the words "must"
and "shall" are mandatory.
   H.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   K.   Title Of Office: Use of the title of any officer, employee, department,
board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board or
commission of the town.
   L.   Preceding, Following: Next before and next after, respectively.
   M.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   N.   Acts By Agents: When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being
such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent.
   O.   Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting: Whenever in the
ordinances of the town, any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the
fact of such act or omission.
   P.   Ordinance Provisions; Construction:
      1.   The provisions of the ordinances of the town, and all proceedings
under them are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to
promote justice.
      2.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has
been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to town ordinances is not meant to amend passage and
effective dates of such original ordinances. (1986 Code § 1-102; amd. 2012
Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL: The board, commission, committee, officer, agent or
employee of the town of Ten Sleep, charged by the governing body with the
administration, enforcement or both the administration and enforcement of the
particular provisions of this code in which the term is used.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The town code of the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming.
COUNCIL: The town council of the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming. "All its members"
or "all council members" means the total number of council members holding
office.
COUNTY: Washakie County, in the state of Wyoming, in which the town of Ten
Sleep is located.
GOVERNING BODY: The elected legislative body of the municipality.
IN THE MUNICIPALITY; IN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE MUNICIPALITY: Shall mean
and include any territory within the corporate limits of the town of Ten Sleep,
the police jurisdiction thereof, and any other territory over which regulatory
power has been conferred on the town of Ten Sleep by general or special act.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The mayor of the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUNICIPALITY: The town of Ten Sleep.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but also any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint
tenant of the whole, or a part of such building or land, and shall include any
agent of such owner, and where such owner is a body corporate, it shall include
the managing agent or corporate officer within the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Wyoming.
STATE LAW: The revised Wyoming Statutes, as amended.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Wyoming, as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
STREET: Shall mean and include public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways,
roads, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other public
thoroughfares in the town of Ten Sleep.
TENANT AND OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
TOWN: The town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming, or the area within the territorial limits
of the town of Ten Sleep, Wyoming, and such territory outside Ten Sleep over
which the town of Ten Sleep has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provision.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Shall include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters; provided that, in all cases where the written
signature of a person is required, the proper handwriting of such person, or
his mark, shall be required.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1986 Code § 1-102; amd. 2012 Code)
1-3-3: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
The catchlines of the sections and the headings of titles, chapters, divisions
and subdivisions of this code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the
contents of the titles, chapters, divisions and subdivisions and shall not be
deemed or taken to be part of the titles, chapters, divisions and subdivisions
nor as any part of any section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they
be so deemed when any title, chapter, division or subdivision including its
catchline or heading, is amended or reenacted. (1986 Code § 1-103)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the town
an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be an unlawful offense or a
misdemeanor, or wherever in this code or in the ordinances of the town the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by a fine of not
exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day any violation of any provision of this
code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (2012
Code; amd. Ord. 222, 7-22-20)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 6-10-103, 15-1-103(a)(xli).
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this code the
same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2012 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the town council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2012
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Annexed Territory Subject To Laws
1-5-2: Exclusion Of Land From Corporate Limits
1-5-3: Annexation And Deannexation
1-5-1: ANNEXED TERRITORY SUBJECT TO LAWS:
Any later annexed territory shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations of the Town, and shall be entitled to all of the rights,
privileges and franchise services afforded the inhabitants thereof, including
police and fire protection, sanitary facilities and utility service. (1986 Code
§ 1-201)
1-5-2: EXCLUSION OF LAND FROM CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   Hearing: The Town Council finds that it is in the best interests of the
Town to exclude from the corporate limits of the Town the lands hereinafter
described, and the Town Council further finds that no owner of any property to
be excluded has registered an objection thereto as provided by law, and also
finds that after due notice, a hearing upon the intended action to so exclude
said hereinafter described land was had according to said published notice and
that no reason exists which would prevent the exclusion of said hereinafter
described land. (1986 Code § 6-101)
   B.   Land Description: There is hereby excluded from the corporate limits of
the Town the following described lands:
A tract of land in the SE1/4SE1/4 Section 17, NE1/4NE1/4, Section 20, NW1/4NW1/
4 and NE1/4NW1/4 Section 21, T.47N., R.88W., of the Original Survey, being more
particularly described as follows: Beginning at the southwest corner of Section
16, T.47N., R.88W. of the Original Survey, thence S.0°13'W., 612 feet along the
east line of Section 20; thence N.89°32'E., 260 feet; thence N.32°02'E., 142.64
feet; thence S.87°32'E., 323.33 feet; thence N.28°43'E., 265.10 feet; thence
N.78°06'E., 333.85 feet; thence S.49°13'E., 320.51 feet; thence N.65°47'E.,
550.08 feet; thence N.58°38'W., 346.67 feet to a point on the north line of the
NE1/4NW1/4 Section 21; thence N.89°32'E., 94.8 feet; thence S.58°38'E., 361.0
feet; thence S.65°47'W., 676.8 feet; thence N.49°13'W., 327.6 feet; thence
S.78°06'W., 286.1 feet; thence S.28°43'W., 273.2 feet; thence N.87°32'W., 325.3
feet; thence S.32°02'W., 706.3 feet; thence N.86°16'W., 334.4 feet; thence
N.0°13'E., 1097.3 feet to the south line of Section 17; thence N.0°28'W., 400
feet to the north right of way line of State Highway N. U.S. 16; thence
easterly along said north right of way line approximately 330 feet to the east
line of Section 17; thence S.1°03'E., 446 feet along the east line of Section
17 to the southeast corner of said Section 17, which is the point of beginning.
(1986 Code § 6-102)
   C.   Filing Plat: The Mayor is hereby authorized to file in the Office of
the County Clerk a plat with the appropriate legend showing the change made in
the boundary of the Town by such exclusion. (1986 Code § 6-103)
1-5-3: ANNEXATION AND DEANNEXATION:
Annexation and Deannexation Ordinances of the Town include:
   A.   Ordinance 6-104, 12-7-1992.
   B.   Ordinance 127, 2-1-1993.
   C.   Ordinance 145, 8-11-1997.
   D.   Ordinance 169, 10-3-2006.
   E.   Ordinance 170, 12-5-2006.
   F.   Ordinance 173, 11-5-2008. (2012 Code)
   G.   Ordinance 215, 6-16-2019.
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Town Council
1-6-2: Mayor Duties
1-6-3: Meetings And Procedures
1-6-4: Appointments By Town Council
1-6-5: Ordinances, Petitions And Memorials
1-6-1: TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Composition; Terms: The elective officers of the town are one mayor and
four (4) council members, elected at large. The terms of office are four (4)
years and until their successors are qualified. (1986 Code § 1-301; amd. 2012
Code)
   B.   Vacancies:
      1.   General: Any vacancy which shall occur on the town council shall be
filled by a person appointed by the mayor and approved by a majority of the
council. Such person shall stand for election at the next regularly held town
election. (1986 Code § 1-309)
      2.   Nomination From Town Council Members: The mayor shall include the
names to fill a vacancy so submitted by any member of the town council before
voting takes place. Submission of such names for consideration may be done
verbally, and shall be requested by the mayor or the town clerk-treasurer and
so recorded in the town journal. (1986 Code § 1-309-1)
      3.   More Than One Nomination: In the event there is more than one
nomination submitted to fill a vacancy, voting shall be done by ballot. Such
ballot will be presented to the voting town council members present by the town
clerk-treasurer. The ballot, after voting is completed, shall be returned to
the town clerk-treasurer for audit. After such audit, the town clerk-treasurer
will announce the yeas and nays, declare the name of the new appointee and
shall enter said appointee's name in the town journal. After said announcement
and entry into the town journal, all ballots will be destroyed by the town
clerk-treasurer. All ballots will be uniform in color and not be larger or
smaller than four inches by five inches (4" x 5") in size. (1986 Code § 1-309-
2)
      4.   Submission Of Resignation: Should at any time an elected or
appointed town council member or the mayor chooses to resign, they shall submit
such resignation in writing, to be addressed to "The Honorable Mayor And Town
Council Of Ten Sleep, State Of Wyoming", stating such reason for said
resignation and, if possible, to include the effective date of said
resignation. (1986 Code § 1-309-3)
      5.   Mayor Vacancy:
         a.   The vacancy of the office of mayor shall be filled by the mayor
pro tem.
         b.   Should the mayor pro tem decline the office of mayor, the town
council shall proceed to fill this vacancy from within the governing body by
majority vote. Such person may stand for election for mayor at the next
regularly held town election. (1986 Code § 1-309-5)
      6.   Time Limit For Filling Vacancy: All vacancies shall be filled as
soon as it is practicable, but in no event later than two (2) calendar months
after such vacancy occurs. (1986 Code § 1-309-4)
   C.   Duties Generally: The duties of all elected officials of the town shall
be as prescribed under Wyoming Statutes. (1986 Code § 1-507)
1-6-2: MAYOR DUTIES:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by statute, the mayor shall:
      1.   Preside at all meetings of the governing body, and in his absence a
council member shall be appointed to act as mayor pro tem;
      2.   Have superintending control of all officers and affairs of the city;
      3.   Take care that the ordinances and laws are complied with;
      4.   Administer oaths;
      5.   Sign commissions and appointments and all bonds, contracts and other
obligations required to be signed in the name of the city; and
      6.   Have one vote on all matters coming before the governing body upon
which a vote is taken, except a vote:
         a.   To override a veto;
         b.   To confirm an appointment other than a vote to break a tie vote
of the governing body; and
         c.   Pursuant to a hearing for removal or discharge as provided in
Wyoming Statutes section 15-2-102(b)(iv)(C) or 15-3-204(b)(iv)(C).
   B.   The mayor may also require any adult inhabitant of the town between the
ages of eighteen (18) and fifty (50) to aid in enforcing the law. (1986 Code §
1-506; amd. 2012 Code)
1-6-3: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the town council shall be held at
the town hall once each month, on the first Tuesday thereof, at the hour of
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., or as soon thereafter as possible, and such meetings
may be held from time to time by adjournment or resolutions as the council may
direct, unless such regular meeting shall fall on a legal holiday, then the
regular meeting shall be rescheduled by majority vote of the town council.
(1986 Code § 1-302; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Power To Call Special Meetings:
         a.   The mayor and any two (2) council members, or a majority of the
council members, shall have the power to call special meetings of the town
council, the object of which shall be submitted to the disposition thereof,
shall be made a matter of record upon the journal; provided, that no vote of
the town council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting,
unless at such meeting there be present as large a number of council members as
were present when such vote was taken.
         b.   The mayor may call a special meeting, without the consent of the
town council, only in an emergency, as specified in subsection B2 of this
section. (1986 Code § 1-303)
      2.   Emergency Defined: An emergency, for the purpose of calling a
special meeting, shall be of the following nature: fire, riots, floods,
infectious or contagious diseases, or any impending danger, or any emergency
requiring its attention for the operation of the town. (1986 Code § 1-303-1)
      3.   Notice Of Special Meeting: When a special meeting is called, with
the exception of an emergency as specified in subsection B2 of this section,
notices will be sent to all council members and one each of such notices shall
be placed at the following locations: United States post office of Ten Sleep,
city public library, senior citizen center and the Ten Sleep Town Hall, or
other locations so designated by the town council. Such notices shall include
information as prescribed in subsection B1 of this section, and shall include
the name of the mayor and the names of the two (2) council members so calling
the special meeting. (1986 Code § 1-303-2; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Open, Public Meetings: All meetings of the governing body and all other
boards, commissions and agencies of the municipality shall be open to the
public at all times. No action of such a body shall be taken except during a
public meeting. (1986 Code § 1-315)
   D.   Quorum Required For Transaction Of Business: A majority of the elected
officials shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
lesser number may adjourn from time to time. (1986 Code § 1-304)
   E.   Mayor To Preside; Voting: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of
the town council, and shall be entitled to one vote on all questions. (1986
Code § 1-305)
   F.   Mayor Pro Tem: The town council shall elect one of their body as "mayor
pro tem", who shall preside at all meetings of the council in the absence of
the mayor, and the mayor pro tem, when occupying the place of the mayor, shall
have the same privileges as other members of the council, and all acts of the
mayor pro tem while so acting, shall be as binding upon the council and upon
the town as if done by the mayor. (1986 Code § 1-306)
   G.   Attendance, Nonattendance:
      1.   Required: It shall be the duty of the duly elected council members
or successors to attend council meetings. The attendance of any member of the
town council who shall be absent from any meeting of said council, without
reasonable excuse therefor, may be compelled by order of the town council, and
two (2) members of the council shall be sufficient to make such order. (1986
Code § 1-307)
      2.   Removal For Nonattendance: It shall be the duty of the town to
execute such order and bring such absentee before the town council. Gross and
persistent delinquency in being absent from such meetings shall be cause for
removal of any such member from his office, and absence from three (3)
consecutive meetings without reasonable excuse shall be evidence of such
delinquency. (1986 Code § 1-308; amd. 2012 Code)
   H.   Order Of Business:
      1.   Specified: At the hour appointed for meeting, the members shall be
called to order by the mayor or, in his absence, by the mayor pro tem, and the
town clerk-treasurer shall proceed to call the roll, note the absentees, and
announce whether a quorum be present. The council shall proceed with the
business before them, which shall be conducted in the following order:
         a.   Roll call;
         b.   Reading of minutes;
         c.   Report of departments, committees;
         d.   Unfinished business;
         e.   New business;
         f.   Presentation of petitions, communications, remonstrances;
         g.   Introduction and action for resolutions and ordinances;
         h.   Miscellaneous;
         i.   Appropriations and payment of bills;
         j.   Adjourn. (1986 Code § 1-310)
      2.   Amendment Or Suspension Of Order Or Rules: The foregoing rules and
order of business may be amended or suspended at any meeting only by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of all the members elected to the town council. (1986 Code §
1-311)
   I.   Presenting Bills For Payment: All bills for labor or material shall be
itemized, giving the day and date that such labor was performed or material
purchased. All bills shall be approved by the officers or committee, before the
same shall be acted upon by the town council. (1986 Code § 1-312)
   J.   Members Of Public Addressing Council: A member of the public shall not
be required, as a condition of attendance at any meeting, to register his name,
to supply information, to complete a questionnaire or fulfill any other
condition precedent to his attendance, except that a person seeking recognition
may be required to give his name and affiliation. (1986 Code § 1-315)
   K.   Executive Sessions: Executive sessions, not open to the public, of the
town council and all other boards, commissions and agencies of the municipality
may be held: (1986 Code § 1-316)
      1.   With the prosecuting attorney, town attorney, or other officers of
the law, on matters posing a threat to the security of public or private
property, or a threat to the public right of access; (1986 Code § 1-316; amd.
2012 Code)
      2.   To consider the appointment, employment, right to practice or
dismissal of a public officer, professional person or employee, or to hear
complaints or charges brought against an employee, professional person or
officer, unless the employee, professional person or officer requests a public
hearing. The town council may exclude from any public or private hearing during
the examination of a witness, any or all other witnesses in the matter being
investigated. Following the hearing or executive session, the town council may
deliberate on its decision in executive session;
      3.   On matters concerning litigation to which the town council is a
party or proposed litigation to which the town council may be a party;
      4.   When the agency is a licensing agency while preparing, administering
or grading examinations;
      5.   To consider the selection of a site or the purchase of real estate
when the publicity regarding the consideration would cause a likelihood of an
increase in price;
      6.   To consider acceptance of gifts, donations and bequests which the
donor has requested in writing be kept confidential;
      7.   To consider or receive any information classified as confidential by
law;
      8.   To consider accepting or tendering offers concerning wages,
salaries, benefits and terms of employment during all such negotiations. (1986
Code § 1-316)
   L.   Disruption Of Meetings: If any public meeting is wilfully disrupted by
a person or group of persons so as to render the orderly conduct of the meeting
unfeasible, and order cannot be restored by the removal of the person or
persons who are wilfully interrupting the meeting, the removal of such person
or group from the meeting room may be ordered and the meeting continued, or the
meeting may be recessed and reconvened at another location. Only matters
appearing on the agenda may be acted upon in a meeting recessed to another
location. Procedures for readmitting an individual or individuals not
responsible for disturbing the conduct of a meeting shall be established by the
body conducting such meeting. Duly accredited members of the press or other
news media, except those who participated in a disturbance, shall be allowed to
attend any meeting permitted by this section, with the sole exception of
executive sessions. (1986 Code § 1-317)
1-6-4: APPOINTMENTS BY TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Procedure For Appointments: Appointment to office shall be acted on by
a majority vote of members elected to the council. The names of those who
voted, and the number of votes each candidate received upon the vote resulting
in appointment shall be recorded. (1986 Code § 1-313; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Committees: All committees shall be appointed by the mayor or mayor pro
tem. The standing committees of the council shall be appointed annually by the
mayor, and shall consist of one member each as follows:
      1.   Park;
      2.   Museum;
      3.   Water and sewer;
      4.   Streets and alleys;
      5.   Ten Sleep homeland security liaison to Washakie County homeland
security director. (1986 Code § 1-314; amd. 2012 Code)
1-6-5: ORDINANCES, PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS:
   A.   Presentation; Suspension Of Rules: All ordinances shall be presented in
typewritten form to the council and shall not be acted upon until the next
regular meeting, unless by a two- thirds (2/3) vote of the council it is deemed
necessary to suspend this rule, when the council may be empowered to report at
once. Said ordinance, when passed, shall be placed on record and shall be
presented and published in the manner provided by law, except in case of
emergency. In such case, an ordinance may be passed at the same meeting upon
its first reading and shall thereupon become a law without publication. (1986
Code § 1-601)
   B.   Voting; Recording: Each council member present shall vote upon every
question put by the chair, unless excused by the council for reason of conflict
of interest, in which he will so state for the purpose of not voting. The yeas
and nays may be called for by any member, in which case the names of the
members with their votes shall be recorded on the minutes. (1986 Code § 1-602)
   C.   Majority Rule: A concurrence of a majority of all the members elected
to the council shall be required for the passage of an ordinance. (1986 Code §
1-603)
   D.   Endorsement After Passage: When such ordinance is passed, it shall be
signed by the town clerk-treasurer, and the date of its passage by the council
shall be added thereto, and within three (3) days thereafter, it shall be
presented to the mayor or, in case of his absence from the town, to the mayor
pro tem for his consideration. If he approves the same, then he shall attach
his signature thereto, together with the date of such approval. (1986 Code § 1-
604)
   E.   Veto By Mayor; Passage Over Veto; Certificate Attached: Should the
mayor not approve the ordinance, he shall return the same to the council with
his objections to the same in writing on or before the date of the next regular
meeting after the same was presented to him. When an ordinance is so returned
by the mayor, the council shall proceed to reconsider the same. If, on such
reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the members elected to the council
vote in the affirmative, the ordinance shall become law notwithstanding the
mayor's veto. (1986 Code § 1-605)
   F.   Ordinance Passed Without Mayor Signature; Certificate: Should the mayor
refuse or neglect to sign any such ordinance and return the same with his
objections in writing, on or before the date of the next regular meeting after
the same was submitted to him, it shall become law without his signature. When
any ordinance has become law without the signature of the mayor, as provided
herein, the town clerk-treasurer shall annex to such ordinance a certificate to
the effect that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has
therefor become law without his signature. (1986 Code § 1-606)
   G.   Passage Date: An ordinance shall be considered passed on the date of
its approval by the mayor, or in case of his vetoing an ordinance, on the date
of the passage of such ordinance over his veto, and in the case of the failure
of the mayor to sign or veto an ordinance, on the date of the next regular
meeting after such ordinance was presented to him. (1986 Code § 1-607)
   H.   Effective Date: All ordinances of a general nature shall, within one
week after their passage, be posted in the office of the town clerk-treasurer
and in such places as the town council may direct. Every ordinance fixing a
penalty or forfeiture for its violation shall, before the same takes effect, be
published once in any regular issue of any newspaper of general circulation in
the town; provided, however, that in a case of riots, infectious or contagious
diseases, or any impending danger, or any emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the mayor.
(1986 Code § 1-608)
   I.   Preserving And Recording: It shall be the duty of the town clerk-
treasurer to safely preserve the original ordinances when passed and approved
and to record the same in a book provided for that purpose. The town clerk-
treasurer shall attach a certificate to each ordinance, so recorded, to the
effect that the same is a true and correct copy of the ordinance as passed.
(1986 Code § 1-609)
   J.   Power To License Implied: When in an ordinance anything is prohibited
from being done without the license of a certain officer or officers, such
officer or officers shall have the power to license such thing to be done.
(1986 Code § 1-610)
   K.   Petitions, Remonstrances And Memorials: All petitions, remonstrances to
the council and memorials shall be in writing, and shall be addressed to "The
Honorable Mayor And Town Council Of The Town Of Ten Sleep, State Of Wyoming".
(1986 Code § 1-611)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointed Officers; Term
1-7-2: Town Clerk-Treasurer
1-7-3: Town Attorney
1-7-4: Town Engineer
1-7-5: Bond Required
1-7-6: Salaries
1-7-7: Sick Leave And Vacation
1-7-8: Removal Of Officers For Misconduct
1-7-9: Conflicts In Interest
1-7-1: APPOINTED OFFICERS; TERM:
The mayor shall, by and with the advice and consent of the council, as soon
after election as possible, appoint the town clerk-treasurer, and such other
officers as may be authorized by ordinance to be appointed hereafter. The town
clerk- treasurer shall hold office until a successor is appointed or until
removal by the council. (1986 Code § 1-501; amd. 2012 Code)
1-7-2: TOWN CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   The town clerk-treasurer shall have the custody of the town seal, and
of all laws and ordinances of the town, and shall keep a correct and regular
journal of the proceedings of the town council. He shall endorse all
ordinances, resolutions and bylaws and shall issue all orders for money, when
appropriated by the town council, and shall keep a distinct and classified
account of such appropriations. He shall keep on file all papers, books,
records, contracts and correspondence belonging to the town, and not allow any
such papers, books, records, contracts, or the town seal to be removed without
the written consent of the mayor. (1986 Code § 1-502)
   B.   The town clerk-treasurer shall have charge of all correspondence, books
and papers belonging to his office. He shall attend all meetings of the town
council and shall serve all notices of special meetings. (1986 Code § 1-503)
   C.   The town clerk-treasurer, upon the payment of all orders, shall
immediately cancel the same, and preserve the same on file; and at the close of
each fiscal year, shall publish a free report of all receipts and disbursements
during the year, including all outstanding dues from the town. He shall pay no
money from the town treasury, except upon an order to be drawn from the account
appropriated. At the expiration of his term of office, he shall turn over to
his successor in office all money, books, papers and other property belonging
to the town in his possession. (1986 Code § 1-504)
1-7-3: TOWN ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The town attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, with
approval by the town council, and shall serve at the discretion of the town
council. (1986 Code § 1-508)
   B.   Duties: The duties of the town attorney shall be to advise the mayor
and the town council from time to time as the need shall arise and to represent
the town in all litigation, civil or criminal, in which the town is a party.
(1986 Code § 1-509)
1-7-4: TOWN ENGINEER:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The mayor, by and with the consent of the
council, may appoint a suitable and qualified person to the office of town
engineer. Such engineer shall be a duly registered professional engineer or
land surveyor, if it is possible to appoint a person with the above
qualifications. (1986 Code § 1-513)
   B.   Duties: The town engineer shall provide any and all necessary
engineering functions as required by the town. The engineer or his
representative shall attend such town meetings as required to assist and advise
the town council where appropriate. (1986 Code § 1-514)
1-7-5: BOND REQUIRED:
The officers of the town shall provide bond, in an amount to be determined from
time to time by the town council. The bond shall be to ensure the proper
performance of duties and to ensure that all books, records, monies and other
appurtenances of office shall be promptly turned over upon completion of
duties. (1986 Code § 1-512)
1-7-6: SALARIES:
   A.   The monthly salary of the mayor of the town shall be one thousand two
hundred dollars ($1,200.00) per month. Each member of the town council shall be
paid the sum of sixty dollars ($60.00) per meeting for actual attendance at
each regular or special meeting of the town council, attendance at any
committee meeting, attendance at Wyoming Association of Municipality meetings,
or other meetings that are approved for payment by the town council. Salaries
of the town attorney and town clerk/treasurer shall be determined by the town
council.
   B.   No increase of salary as set forth herein of any elective officer shall
be changed during his or her office as provided in Wyoming Statutes section 15-
4-105(b). (1986 Code § 1-511) (amd. Ord. 218, 11-5-2019)
1-7-7: SICK LEAVE AND VACATION:
   A.   Sick Leave: The council shall determine the appropriate amount of sick
leave allowed all town employees. (1986 Code § 1-522)
   B.   Vacation: The council shall determine the amount of vacation allowed
employees. If vacation time is not taken, it shall not be paid as excess
salary. (1986 Code § 1-523)
1-7-8: REMOVAL OF OFFICERS FOR MISCONDUCT:
   A.   Authorized: Any officer of the town whose office is created either by
statute or ordinance and made elective or appointive, may be removed from
office for misconduct in office by a vote of a majority of all the members
elected to the town council as council members, in the way and manner
hereinafter provided. (1986 Code § 1-515)
   B.   Institution Of Proceedings For Removal; Notice: Removal proceedings
hereunder shall be instituted by written charges, clearly specifying any cause
or causes for such removal, properly sworn to and filed with the town clerk-
treasurer; and it shall be the duty of the town clerk-treasurer, upon the
filing of such charge, to cause notice thereof, together with a copy of said
charges, to be served forthwith upon the mayor and members of the town council;
providing further, that if the charges be for the removal of the mayor or
members of the town council, then the notice shall be served on the other
parties not so charged. (1986 Code § 1-516)
   C.   Meeting To Hear Charges: Upon the service of notice and copies as
directed in subsection B of this section, it shall be the duty of the mayor to
forthwith call a meeting of the town council for the purpose of considering the
charges and take action thereon; providing, that if the charges are against the
mayor, then the mayor pro tem of the town council shall call the said meeting.
(1986 Code § 1-517)
   D.   Procedure Of Hearing: The town council, when convened for the above
purpose, shall read said charges so filed and take a vote thereon, and if a
majority of all the members elected to the council as council members shall
vote to try the accused on said charges, then a time shall be fixed for the
hearing and the town council shall cause a copy of said charges, together with
notice of said hearing, to be served on the accused at least five (5) days
prior to the date set for the hearing. (1986 Code § 1-518)
   E.   Hearing: At the time and place set for the hearing of said charges, the
town council shall meet and proceed according to its rules to hear the evidence
offered for and against the accused, and may adjourn from time to time as may
be necessary until all the evidence shall have been given and their decision
rendered thereon. At such hearing, the town clerk- treasurer shall administer
oaths to witnesses and the mayor shall be the presiding officer, except if he
be the accused, then the mayor pro tem shall preside. The mayor shall not be
entitled to vote on the guilt or innocence of the accused and if the mayor pro
tem be the one presiding then he shall not be allowed to vote. (1986 Code § 1-
519)
   F.   Parties May Be Represented By Counsel: The accused and the town may be
represented by counsel at their own expense. (1986 Code § 1-520)
   G.   Vote By Ballot: Within three (3) days after the evidence has been
given, the town council shall vote by ballot upon the charges and if the
majority thereof find the accused guilty, then they shall adopt a resolution
declaring the accused guilty as to the charges filed, his office vacant and
said accused removed from office. (1986 Code § 1-521)
1-7-9: CONFLICTS IN INTEREST:
   A.   Nonofficers:
      1.   No qualified member of the governing body of the town or any member
of that qualified member's immediate family may receive any monetary or other
economic benefit from any contract to which the town or anyone for its benefit
is a party. The obligation on the part of the town is void in any contract in
which a monetary or other economic benefit will be received by a qualified
member of the governing body or his family who does not comply with subsection
A2 of this section. Any money paid on the contract may be recovered by the town
from any persons by an action brought in the name of the town.
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section does not apply to any qualified member
of a governing body or any member of that qualified member's immediate family
who may receive any monetary or other economic benefit from any contract made
by the governing body if the qualified member complies with the following:
         a.   The qualified member:
            (1)   Shall not participate in the consideration or discussion
relating to the contract;
            (2)   Shall not attempt to influence the other members of the
governing body in any way relating to the contract;
            (3)   Shall reveal the nature and extent of any monetary or other
economic benefit he or any member of his immediate family may receive to the
other members of the governing body prior to consideration of the contract;
            (4)   Shall not vote on the matter of granting the contract;
            (5)   Shall absent himself during the consideration, discussion and
vote on the contract; and
            (6)   Shall not act, directly or indirectly, for the governing body
in inspection, operation, administration or securing performance under the
contract in which he or any member of his immediate family may receive any
monetary or other economic benefit.
      3.   No qualified member of the governing body, officer or employee may
receive any pay or prerequisites from the town, other than his salary for any
work coming within the scope of his duties as provided by ordinance and the
law. The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to any person not a qualified member of the governing body,
officer or employee for the performance of any act, service or duty which is
within the proper scope of the duties of any qualified member of the governing
body, officer or employee of the town, unless specifically appropriated and
ordered by a vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all members elected to the
governing body. (1986 Code § 1-802; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Officers:
      1.   No officer or employee of the town shall:
         a.   Solicit or receive any pay, commission, money or thing of value,
or derive any benefit, profit or advantage, directly or indirectly, from or by
reason of any improvement, alteration or repair required by authority of the
town, or any contract to which it is a party, except his lawful compensation as
an officer or employee and except as otherwise provided in subsection A2a of
this section;
         b.   Solicit, accept or receive, directly or indirectly, from any
public service corporation, or the owner of any public utility or franchise of
the town, any pass, frank, free ticket, free service or any other favor upon
terms more favorable than those granted the public generally, except that
council members who are regularly employed by any public service corporation or
owner of a public utility or franchise may receive free service or favor as is
given to all other similar employees.
      2.   Any officer or employee who violates this subsection shall be
subject to removal from his position or other disciplinary action after
hearing. (1986 Code § 1-803)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Authority
1-8-2: Conduct Of Elections; Charter Ordinance
1-8-3: When Elections Held
1-8-4: Polling Place
1-8-5: Election In Even Numbered Years
1-8-6: Publication Of Election Proclamation
1-8-7: Town Election Board
1-8-8: Town Canvassing Board
1-8-9: Printing Of Ballot Proposition
1-8-10: Vacancy In Nomination; Filled By Town Council
1-8-11: Application Form; Fee
1-8-12: Preparation Of Ballots
1-8-13: Canvassing Results
1-8-14: Commencement Of Term Of Office
1-8-15: Constitutional Oath Of Office
1-8-16: Town To Bear Expenses Of Election
1-8-17: State Statutes Applicable
1-8-1: AUTHORITY:
This charter ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority vested in cities and
towns of the state by article 13, section 1 of the Wyoming constitution, and
Wyoming Statutes section 22-23-202. Wyoming Statutes sections 22-23-301, 22-23-
303, 22-23-304 and 22-23-307 shall not apply to the town. (1986 Code §§ 5-101,
5-501; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8-2: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS; CHARTER ORDINANCE:
The town council does hereby elect to conduct elections pursuant to the terms
of this charter ordinance and not in the same manner as statewide elections.
(1986 Code § 5-201)
1-8-3: WHEN ELECTIONS HELD:
Said election shall be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in
May of each even numbered year; the polls shall remain open from seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (1986 Code § 5-202)
1-8-4: POLLING PLACE:
The town clerk-treasurer shall designate the polling places and shall be
responsible for conducting the election. (1986 Code § 5-203)
1-8-5: ELECTION IN EVEN NUMBERED YEARS:
A mayor and two (2) council members shall be elected in May of each even
numbered year. (1986 Code § 5-204)
1-8-6: PUBLICATION OF ELECTION PROCLAMATION:
Between forty five (45) and thirty five (35) days before each town election,
the town clerk-treasurer shall publish once in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the town and post conspicuously in not less than three (3)
public places in each town a proclamation setting forth the date of the
forthcoming election, the titles and terms of the offices to be filled at the
election, the number of persons required by law to fill the offices, the
requirements for filing statements of campaign receipts and expenditures, and
in addition before the election, the legislative description of each proposed
ballot proposition submitted to the voters of the town. (1986 Code § 5-301)
1-8-7: TOWN ELECTION BOARD:
Three (3) town electing judges shall be appointed by the town council. These
officials shall represent both political parties and shall be appointed every
two (2) years. Compensation shall be made the same as paid county election
judges. (1986 Code § 5-401)
1-8-8: TOWN CANVASSING BOARD:
The town canvassing board is the town clerk-treasurer and two (2) electors of
different political parties who are residents in the town and appointed by the
town council. The two (2) electors shall receive the same compensation as
election judges for statewide elections. The town canvassing board shall meet
no later than the first Monday following the election. The town clerk-treasurer
shall designate the time and place of this meeting. (1986 Code § 5-402; amd.
2012 Code)
1-8-9: PRINTING OF BALLOT PROPOSITION:
A town ballot proposition to be voted on at an election shall be printed on the
town ballot by the town clerk-treasurer. (1986 Code § 5-501)
1-8-10: VACANCY IN NOMINATION; FILLED BY TOWN COUNCIL:
A vacancy in nomination for a town office to be filled at a town election
occurs if at the time of the town election there are no nominating applications
for the office of mayor, or there are less than two (2) nomination applications
for council members. A vacancy in nomination shall be filled by the town
council. (1986 Code § 5-601)
1-8-11: APPLICATION FORM; FEE:
Not more than sixty (60) days nor less than forty five (45) days preceding the
town election, each candidate for a town office shall pay a filing fee of ten
dollars ($10.00), and sign and file with the town clerk-treasurer an
application in substantially the following form:
State of Wyoming   )
         ) ss.
Town of Ten Sleep   )
I,                     , the undersigned, being                 years of age, a
qualified elector of the Town of Ten Sleep and the State of Wyoming, do hereby
petition and request that my name be printed upon the Official Ballot at the
next town election as a candidate for the office of                     . I
hereby declare that if nominated and elected I will qualify for the office.
Dated:    
            Signature of Candidate
            Residence address (1986 Code § 5-701)
1-8-12: PREPARATION OF BALLOTS:
The town clerk-treasurer shall prepare ballots which shall be in substantially
the same form as the statewide general election nonpartisan ballot. The name of
every candidate legally qualified to appear on the ballot and all town ballot
propositions to be voted on at the election shall be printed thereon. (1986
Code § 5-801)
1-8-13: CANVASSING RESULTS:
The returns of the town election shall be canvassed by the town canvassing
board, which shall certify the results in writing to the town clerk-treasurer.
A tie vote shall be broken by lots cast by the town canvassing board. (1986
Code § 5-802)
1-8-14: COMMENCEMENT OF TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of a person elected at the town election commences on June 1
following the election. (1986 Code § 5-803)
1-8-15: CONSTITUTIONAL OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering his duties, a person elected to a town office shall sign and
file with the town clerk-treasurer the same constitutional oath of office as
county officers. (1986 Code § 5-804)
1-8-16: TOWN TO BEAR EXPENSES OF ELECTION:
The town shall bear the entire expense of any election help pursuant to this
charter ordinance. (1986 Code § 5-805)
1-8-17: STATE STATUTES APPLICABLE:
All matters with respect to elections for town office or for ballot
propositions of the town shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the
Wyoming election code and any and all amendments, modifications or revisions
thereof. (1986 Code § 5-806)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Municipal Judge
1-9-2: Jurisdiction
1-9-3: Court Procedures Conform To State Law
1-9-4: Court Costs
1-9-5: Bond Schedule
1-9-1: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Appointment: There shall be one judge of the municipal court styled
"municipal judge", who shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the
council. (1986 Code § 14-101)
   B.   Wage; Bond: The hourly wage of the municipal judge shall be determined
by the town council, and such municipal judge shall give bond to the town in a
sum to be determined by the town council, conditioned as by law provided. (Ord.
190, 6-3-2014)
1-9-2: JURISDICTION:
Jurisdiction by the municipal judge will be within the town limits as specified
on the town map, the water tank on BLM land, and out of town water distribution
systems serving out of town water customers. (1986 Code § 1-510; amd. 2012
Code)
1-9-3: COURT PROCEDURES CONFORM TO STATE LAW:
The procedure of such municipal court shall as nearly as possible conform to
that provided by the general laws of the state in courts of the justice of the
peace. (1986 Code §§ 1-510, 14-102)
1-9-4: COURT COSTS:
   A.   In each case tried before the court in which the town prevails, the
defendant or each defendant if more than one should be tried together, shall be
charged with costs in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) in addition to
whatever fine may be levied.
   B.   In each case in which bond is posted prior to the trial, the amount of
the bond shall include ten dollars ($10.00) in costs, and if such bond is
forfeited, the cost shall be forfeited at the same time.
   C.   In each case appealed by the defendant from the municipal court to the
district court, the defendant shall pay the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) in
costs for such appeal within ten (10) days after entering of judgement in
municipal court. (1986 Code § 14-104; amd. Ord. 223, 7-22-20)
1-9-5: BOND SCHEDULE:
   TEN SLEEP MUNICIPAL COURT
   BOND SCHEDULE
   POST AND FORFEIT OFFENSES
Town Code Offenses Bail
Town Code Offenses                              Bail
2-3-9A    Liquor establishment closing time     $100.00
2-3-9B    Music outside                         100.00
3-1-4     Storing refuse, etc.                  75.00
3-1-5     Nuisance by failing to keep premises  75.00
          clean
3-1-6     Dead animals                          75.00
3-1-7     Vacant lots                           75.00
3-1-8     Burning without permit                150.00
4-2-1D    Obstruction of animal control         150.00
          authority
4-2-4D1   Dog running at large - first offense  $50.00 plus fees, costs, etc.
4-2-4D2   Dog running at large - second offense $75.00 plus fees, costs, etc.
4-2-4D3   Dog running at large - third offense  $150.00 plus fees, costs, etc.
4-2-5A    Harboring of animals                  $50.00
4-2-6     Running at large                      $75.00 plus fees, costs, etc.
4-2-7     Vicious dogs                          $100.00
4-2-8     Cruelty to animals                    100.00
4-3-1     Assault and battery                   150.00
4-3-2     Buildings, etc. - injuring, defacing, 100.00
          etc.
4-3-3     Camping                               50.00
4-3-4     Crossing lawns                        50.00
4-3-5     Discharging firearms                  100.00
4-3-6     Disorderly conduct                    150.00
4-3-7     Disturbing assemblages                100.00
4-3-8A    False alarms - fire                   100.00
4-3-8B    False alarms - false call for police  100.00
4-3-9     Fences - erection of dangerous fences 100.00
4-3-10A   Fire alarm system - interference      150.00
4-3-10B   Fire hydrants, water mains, etc. -    200.00
          interference
4-3-12    Malicious mischief                    150.00
4-3-13    Municipal employees, etc. -           150.00
          interference
4-3-14    Nudity in public                      75.00
4-3-15B   Obscenity - prohibited conduct        75.00
4-3-16    Prostitution                          200.00
4-3-17    Refrigerators, iceboxes, etc. -       100.00
          abandonment
4-3-18    Shoplifting                           200.00
7-2-1     Connecting to sewer without permit    200.00
7-2-3     Licensed plumber required             75.00
7-2-11A   Failure to maintain proper sump       75.00
7-2-12    Nuisance and abatement                150.00
7-2-14    Irrigation drainage - into sewer      100.00
 
(Ord. 191, 10-7-2014)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS PERMITS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Application Information Required
2-1-1: APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED:
Business permit applications shall include:
   A.   Name of individual requesting permit;
   B.   Address and phone number;
   C.   Name of business and address and phone number;
   D.   Type of business;
   E.   Customer capacity of business;
   F.   Employer identification number (EIN);
   G.   Wyoming secretary of state good standing certificate;
   H.   Date business created;
   I.   Intended duration of business;
   J.   Registered agent;
   K.   Manager of business;
   L.   Sign for business:
      1.   Type;
      2.   Size. (Ord. 174, 4-7-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Exceptions To Definitions
2-2-3: Transient Merchant Licensing; Exemptions
2-2-4: License Ineligibility
2-2-5: License Suspension And Revocation
2-2-6: License Transferability
2-2-7: Prohibited Activities
2-2-8: Exclusion By Placard
2-2-9: Location
2-2-10: Penalty
2-2-11: Severability
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
NONCOMMERCIAL DOOR TO DOOR ADVOCATE: A person who goes door to door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social or other
ideological beliefs. For the purpose of this chapter, the term "door to door
advocate" shall fall under the term solicitor and include door to door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for noncommercial purposes.
PEDDLER: A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services that the person is
carrying or otherwise transporting. For the purpose of this chapter, the term
peddler shall have the same common meaning as the term hawker.
PERSON: Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation, partnership,
or similar association.
PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER: Any person, including a corporation or other entity,
who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or other services for a
religious, political, social, or other charitable organization.
REGULAR BUSINESS DAY: Any day during which the town hall is normally open for
the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law shall
not be considered regular business days.
SOLICITOR: A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
chapter, the term solicitor shall have the same meaning as the term canvasser.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: A person who temporarily sets up business out of a vehicle,
trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty storefront for the
purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and
delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property and
who does not remain in any one location for more than ninety (90) consecutive
days. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-2: EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the terms "peddler", "solicitor", and
"transient merchant" shall not apply to:
   A.   Noncommercial door to door advocates. Nothing within this chapter shall
be interpreted to prohibit or restrict noncommercial door to door advocates.
   B.   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of the
items being sold by the wholesaler.
   C.   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the purpose
of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery route for
the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked goods or
milk.
   D.   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to
the customers on his or her established delivery route.
   E.   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large.
   F.   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales.
   G.   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer.
   H.   Any officer of the court conducting a court ordered sale.
Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or requirement provided by this or any other town ordinance. (Ord. 192, 5-8-
2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-3: TRANSIENT MERCHANT LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Town License Required: Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a
transient merchant without first obtaining a town license.
   B.   Application: An application for a town license to conduct a business as
a transient merchant shall be made at least ten (10) regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the town. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
town council and available from the office of the town clerk-treasurer.
All applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall
include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's full legal name.
      2.   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer to.
      3.   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      4.   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      5.   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent.
      6.   Full address of applicant's regular place of business, if any
exists.
      7.   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      8.   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      9.   Whether the applicant is applying for a ninety (90) day or annual
license.
      10.   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
      11.   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant can
be reached while conducting business within the town including the location
where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business.
      12.   A list of the three (3) most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a transient merchant.
      13.   Proof of any other required license.
      14.   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant.
      15.   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      16.   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the town council.
      17.   A copy of their driver's license or other acceptable form of
identification which includes a photograph identification.
      18.   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   C.   Fee: All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the following fee:
 
0-5 hours                        No charge
Over 5 hours and up to 10 hours  $25.00
Over 10 hours and up to 20 hours $50.00
Over 20 hours                    $75.00
 
   D.   Procedure: Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, within two (2) regular business days the town clerk-treasurer will
determine if the application is complete. An application will be considered
complete if all required information is provided. If the town clerk-treasurer
determines that the application is incomplete, the town clerk- treasurer must
inform the applicant of the required, necessary information that is missing. If
the application is complete, the town clerk-treasurer may order any
investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the information
provided with the application. Within ten (10) regular business days of
receiving a complete application, the town clerk-treasurer shall forward the
application to the mayor and council for consideration at their next scheduled
council meeting for consideration. If the town council denies the license
application, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for the denial and the applicant's right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within twenty (20) days of receiving notice of the rejection, a
public hearing before the town council. The town council shall hear the appeal
within twenty (20) days of the date of the request for hearing.
Issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the license application
under section
2-2-4 of this chapter, in which case the clerk-treasurer must deny the request
for a town transient merchant license. If the town clerk- treasurer denies the
license application, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision,
the reason for denial and the applicant's right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within twenty (20) days of receiving notice of rejection, a public
hearing before the town council. The town council shall hear the appeal within
twenty (20) days of the date of the request for a hearing.
   E.   Duration: A license granted under this chapter shall be valid only for
the time period indicated on the license.
   F.   License Exemptions:
      1.   No license shall be required for any person going from house to
house, door to door, business to business, street to street, or any other type
of place to place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion, and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person's exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014, eff.
1-1-2015)
2-2-4: LICENSE INELIGIBILITY:
The following shall be grounds for denying a transient merchant license:
   A.   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of having
obtained any other required license.
   B.   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
required by the town as part of the application process.
   C.   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application.
   D.   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   E.   A conviction within the past five (5) years of the date of application
for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any
local ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person's ability to conduct
the business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest
and legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to,
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   F.   The revocation within the past five (5) years of any license issued to
an applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler or transient
merchant.
   G.   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three (3) complaints against an applicant with the better business bureau,
the office of the Wyoming attorney general or other state attorney general's
office, or other similar business consumer rights office or agency, within the
preceding twelve (12) months, or three (3) complaints filed with the town
against an applicant within the preceding five (5) years. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014,
eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-5: LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Generally: Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the town council for violation of any of the
following:
      1.   Subsequent knowledge by the town of fraud, misrepresentations or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      3.   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under section
2-2-4 of this chapter.
      4.   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under section
2-2-7 of this chapter.
      5.   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   B.   Multiple Persons Under One License: The suspension or revocation of any
license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall serve as a
suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to conduct
business as a transient merchant on behalf of the licensee whose license is
suspended or revoked.
   C.   Notice: Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the town shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   D.   Public Hearing: Upon receiving the notice provided in subsection C of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the town clerk-treasurer within ten
(10) days following the service of the notice, the town may proceed with the
suspension or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be
considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within twenty (20) days from the date of the request for public
hearing. Within three (3) regular business days of the hearing, the town
council shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   E.   Emergency: If, in the discretion of the town council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the town council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Appeal: Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court. (Ord. 192, 5-8-
2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-6: LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY:
No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person other
than the person to who the license was issued. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014, eff. 1-1-
2015)
2-2-7: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
No transient merchant or other person engaging in other similar activities
shall conduct business in any of the following manner:
   A.   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   B.   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right of way.
   C.   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public.
   D.   Conducting business before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   E.   Failing to provide proof of license and identification when requested.
   F.   Using the license or registration of another person.
   G.   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements or endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the town solely
based on the town having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   H.   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
   I.   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive. (Ord. 192, 5-
8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-8: EXCLUSION BY PLACARD:
Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, noncommercial door to door advocate or other
person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property of
another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant, noncommercial door to door advocate, or similar activity
when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
   A.   At least four inches (4") long.
   B.   At least two inches (2") wide.
   C.   With print or at least 48-point in size.
   D.   Stating "No Peddlers, Solicitors Or Transient Merchants", "Peddlers,
Solicitors, And Transient Merchants Prohibited", or other comparable statement.
No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or
otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section. (Ord. 192, 5-8-
2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-9: LOCATION:
No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall have any right to make a
stationary location on any public street, sidewalk, or public right of way
without first having written approval from the governing body of the town of
Ten Sleep. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-10: PENALTY:
Any individual found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
2-2-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected. (Ord. 192, 5-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definitions
2-3-2: Compliance Required
2-3-3: Application For License
2-3-4: Types Of Licenses And Permits; Fees
2-3-5: Temporary Licenses And Permits; Fees
2-3-6: Term Of License
2-3-7: Transfer Of License
2-3-8: Grounds For Denial Of License
2-3-9: Operational Requirements And Restrictions
2-3-10: Age Restrictions On Licensed Building; Exceptions
2-3-11: Bottle Clubs Prohibited
2-3-12: Drive-In Facilities
2-3-13: Delivery Of Alcohol And Malt Beverages
2-3-14: Posting Of License Or Permit Required
2-3-15: Suspension Of License Or Permit
2-3-16: Penalty
2-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, definitions used in this chapter
shall be as found in Wyoming Statutes section 12-1-101:
CLERK-TREASURER: The Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Ten Sleep.
GOVERNING BODY: The Mayor and Council of the Town of Ten Sleep. (Ord. 142, 6-
18-1996)
2-3-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
For the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the residents, citizens
and guests of the Town, it is hereby declared to be in the best interest of the
Town and the residents, citizens and guests hereof, that the sale,
distribution, possession and traffic of alcoholic liquor and malt beverages
shall be regulated to the extent that all such activity be, and the same hereby
is, prohibited, except as provided in this chapter, and that no sale at retail
or possession of such substances shall occur within the jurisdictional limits
of the Town except as authorized herein and the exceptions provided in Wyoming
Statutes section 12-1-101 et seq., reserving certain powers of the State. It is
the intent of this chapter to comply and coincide with provisions of Wyoming
Statutes section 12-1-101 et seq., which regulate such substances. (Ord. 142,
6-18-1996)
2-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Form of Application: Any person desiring an annual license as
authorized by this chapter shall make application to the Town by delivering to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, on the form prepared by the Attorney General pursuant
to Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-701 and provided to the applicant by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, a completed, verified and signed form. The licensee fee, or any
other fees related to a license, shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at
the time the application is filed or the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall not
commence processing the application. Renewal of an annual license, application
for transfer of ownership and transfer of location shall be made upon the same
form and in the same manner. The information contained in the application shall
conform to the requirements of Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-102.
   B.   Publication: When an application for a license, permit, renewal or any
transfer of location or ownership thereof has been filed with the licensing
authority, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly prepare a notice of
application, and publish the notice in the newspaper of local circulation once
a week for two (2) consecutive weeks. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall also post
the notice on the Town's official website if one exists. The notice shall state
that a named applicant has applied for a license, permit, renewal or transfer
thereof, and that protests against the issuance, renewal or transfer of the
license or permit will be heard at a designated meeting of the licensing
authority. Each applicant shall, at the time of filing his application, pay the
Town Clerk-Treasurer an amount sufficient to cover the costs of publishing
notice. The notice shall comply with the provisions of Wyoming Statute § 12-4-
104.
   C.   Request For Additional Documentation: On behalf of the licensing
authority, the Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to request supporting
documentation in conjunction with applications filed for a license or permit.
Prior to issuance, review and inspections of the proposed premises may be
conducted by various Town department representatives as required by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer. Representatives of Town departments may enter licensed and
permitted premises during regular business hours to make reasonable
inspections.
   D.   Falsification of Application:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person or organization to knowingly submit
false information or false facts as true, or to submit a fact or piece of
information without knowing such to be true or false, on an application for any
license or permit authorized by the chapter and that each application is being
submitted shall be sworn to be true to the best of the knowledge by the person
submitting such application.
      2.   If, in the opinion of the Town Attorney, a liquor license holder has
acted in violation of this subsection, the Town Attorney shall, upon request of
the licensing authority, take action on behalf of the licensing authority
pursuant to Wyoming Statute § 12-7-201 seeking revocation of the license or
permit. Such action shall be in addition to any other penalties which may
accrue to the license holder for violation of this subsection. (Ord. 142, 6-18-
1996; amd. Ord. 210, 8-1-2017; Ord. 227, 3-1-2022)
2-3-4: TYPES OF LICENSES AND PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Licenses And Permits: The Governing Body is hereby authorized to issue
the following annual licenses pursuant to State law and this chapter:
      1.   Retail liquor license, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-201.
      2.   Limited retail liquor (special club) license, as defined in Wyoming
Statutes § 12-4-301.
      3.   Resort retail liquor license, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-
401.
      4.   Restaurant liquor license, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-
407.
      5.   Microbrewery permit, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-415.
      6.   Winery permit, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-414.
      7.   Special malt beverage permit for public auditoriums, civic centers
or event centers, as defined in Wyoming Statute § 12-4-504.
      8.   Motel/hotel minibar license, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-5-
201(e).
      9.   Bar and grill license, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-413.
   B.   Fee: The annual fee for each license shall be payable at the time of
application, shall be paid in cash or certified check, and shall be in the full
amount as shown for each class of license below:
      1.   For a retail liquor license, the annual fee shall be seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   For a limited retail liquor (special club) license, the annual fee
shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      3.   For a resort retail liquor license, the annual fee shall be seven
hundred dollars ($700.00).
      4.   For a restaurant liquor license, the annual fee shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
      5.   For a microbrewery permit, the annual fee shall be four hundred
dollars ($400.00).
      6.   For a winery permit, the annual fee shall be four hundred dollars
($400.00).
      7.   For a special malt beverage permit for public auditoriums, civic
centers or event centers, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-504, the annual
fee shall be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
      8.   For a motel/hotel minibar license, the annual fee shall be three
hundred seventy-five dollars ($375.00).
      9.   For a bar and grill liquor license, the annual fee shall be one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   C.   Refunds Prohibited: No refund of all or any part of any license fee
shall be made at any time following the issuance of the license.
   D.   Publication Fee: In addition to paying an application fee at the time
of application, the applicant shall also pay a nonrefundable publication fee in
an amount designated by the Town Clerk-Treasurer to cover the cost of
publishing public hearing notices. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. Ord. 208, 8-1-
2017; Ord. 228, 3-1-2022)
2-3-5: TEMPORARY LICENSES AND PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Temporary Licenses and Permits: The Governing Body is hereby authorized
to issue the following temporary licenses pursuant to State law and this
chapter:
      1.   Malt beverage permit, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4- 502(a).
      2.   Catering permit, as defined in Wyoming Statutes § 12-4-502(b).
   B.   Fee: The fee for each license shall be payable at the time of
application, shall be paid in cash or certified check, and shall be in the full
amount as shown for each class of license below:
      1.   For a malt beverage permit, the fee shall be twenty-five dollars
($25.00).
      2.   For a catering permit, as defined by Wyoming Statutes § 12-4- 502
(b), the fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00), per twenty-four (24) hour
period.
   C.   Refunds Prohibited: No refund of all or any part of any temporary
license or permit fee shall be made at any time following the issuance of the
license.
   D.   Publication Fee: In addition to paying an application fee at the time
of application, the applicant shall also pay a nonrefundable publication fee in
an amount designated by the Town Clerk-Treasurer to cover the cost of
publishing public hearing notice. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. Ord. 230, 3-1-
2022)
2-3-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Annual licenses shall be for a period of not more than one (1) year,
expiring each year on April 1. Annual licenses shall be a personal privilege of
the licensee.
   B.   A licensee, or the executor or administrator of the estate of a
deceased licensee, may assign and transfer the license or permit by a sale made
in good faith. The assignment and transfer shall first have the approval of the
licensing authority, which consideration shall be based in part upon a public
hearing and an application filed under oath by the assignee or transferee
showing the person or entity to be qualified to hold a liquor license or permit
under Wyoming law. The approval of the transfer shall not be given by the
licensing authority if the transferring licensee is certified by the department
as sixty (60) or more days delinquent in paying sales taxes pursuant to W.S.
12-2-306, or if proceedings are pending to suspend, revoke, or otherwise
penalize the original license or permit holder. A transfer of a license or
permit shall require the payment of an additional license fee to the Town of
Ten Sleep of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the transfer, and upon
assignment the assignee may exercise the privilege of continuing the business
authorized by the license or permit. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. Ord. 229, 3-1-
2022)
2-3-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A person seeking to transfer an annual license shall submit a new application
form and shall pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at the time of such application
a nonrefundable additional license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
transfer application shall be set for public hearing and otherwise considered
by the Governing Body in a manner consistent with Wyoming Statutes section 12-
4-601. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996)
2-3-8: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
A license shall not be issued, renewed or transferred if the Governing Body
finds from evidence presented at the hearing required under Wyoming Statutes §
12-4-104 any of the conditions found under Wyoming Statutes § 12-4- 104(b).
(Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. Ord. 231, 3-1-2022)
2-3-9: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation:
      1.   All licensees and permittees holding an annual or temporary license
under this chapter shall be controlled by the schedule of hours set forth in
subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   The hours of operation for all licensees and permittees, shall be as
follows:
On all days, a licensee may open the licensed building no earlier than six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and shall close the licensed building and cease the sale of
alcoholic and malt beverages no later than two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following day, and the licensee shall clear the licensed building of all
persons other than employees no later than two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. (Ord.
206, 8-1-2017)
   B.   Music Outside Establishment: Any person licensed by the Town to sell
alcoholic or malt beverages shall not permit or provide music of any kind
whatsoever outside the building where such business is conducted after the hour
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., except that such music may be permitted or
provided until one o'clock (1:00) A.M., by special permission of the Town
Council on July 4, and at such other times as the Town Council shall from time
to time deem appropriate.
   C.   Minors:
      1.   Furnishing To Minors Prohibited: Any person who sells, furnishes,
gives or causes to be sold or furnished to be given away any alcoholic liquor
or malt beverage to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, who is
not his legal ward, medical patient or member of his immediate family, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Possession By Underage Person: It is unlawful for any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years to possess, buy, sell, drink, consume or
otherwise solicit the sale or purchase of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages in
the Town. As used in this section, possession shall also include alcohol which
has been consumed and is present within the body at the time of determination.
      3.   Sales To Underage Person: It is unlawful for any person to sell,
give or deliver any alcoholic liquor or malt beverage to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years; provided, however, that such prohibition shall
not apply to any parent or guardian providing such to his or her child in the
confines of their home.
      4.   Use Of False Proof Of Age Or Identity: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years, to make, use or possess any
identification which falsely indicates the person's age as greater than twenty
one (21) years, whether in the person's correct name or not, or to attempt to
obtain any alcoholic liquor or malt beverage using any false identification.
   D.   Excessive Drinking Or Disorderly Conduct: Excessive drinking of
alcoholic liquor and malt beverages or disorderly conduct in any place licensed
under this chapter shall not be permitted by the licensee. In addition to any
penalty provided by this chapter or State law, excessive drinking or disorderly
conduct may be cause for the initiation of suspension and/or revocation
procedures. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
2-3-10: AGE RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSED BUILDING; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Except as provided below, no licensee or agent, employee, or server
thereof shall knowingly permit any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to enter or remain in the licensed building with the following
exceptions:
      1.   Those establishments holding a restaurant license, limited retail
license (clubs, guest ranch, golf course), resort license, and catering permits
are exempt from age restrictions as to presence of minors on the licensed
premises.
      2.   If a retail license holder or bar/grill license holder operates a
commercial kitchen or leases space for a commercial kitchen to a third party,
within the licensed building, persons under the age of twenty one (21) years
may enter or remain in the licensed building until the hour of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M., so long as they are accompanied by a parent, guardian, or spouse who
is at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Establishments that operate primarily for off-premises sales
(package liquor) shall maintain a separate area for the sale of alcoholic or
malt beverages and comply with Wyoming Statutes section 12-6-101(c)(vi). (Ord.
207, 8-1-2017)
2-3-11: BOTTLE CLUBS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a bottle club in the Town. As used
herein, "bottle club" is defined as an operation or enterprise in which no
alcoholic liquor or malt beverages are sold, but where food, soft drinks and
mixes are sold, and the safekeeping of alcoholic liquor and malt beverages is
provided for individual club members who bring alcoholic liquor and malt
beverages upon the premises for their own use and consumption. Income, profits
or fees of the operator of a bottle club are typically derived from sales or
furnishing of mixes, ice, food or glasses, or from dues, charges,
contributions, membership cards or assessments. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996)
2-3-12: DRIVE-IN FACILITIES:
Upon approval of the original application by the Governing Body, or the renewal
thereof, a drive-in area adjacent to or contiguous with a licensed building may
be used by the holder of retail liquor license for taking orders, making
delivery of, and receiving payment for alcoholic or malt beverages under the
terms and conditions set forth in Wyoming Statutes section 12-5-301. (Ord. 211,
8-1-2017)
2-3-13: DELIVERY OF ALCOHOL AND MALT BEVERAGES:
Delivery of alcohol and malt beverages shall be as regulated in Wyoming
Statutes section 12-5-201. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
2-3-14: POSTING OF LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, all permit and
license recipients must post the license or permit in a conspicuous place
within the licensed building described in the application.
   B.   Any license issued pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-103(a)(iv)
shall be held by the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the Town Clerk-Treasurer's Office,
or other location as described by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, until the license
can be placed in a physical functional building. (Ord. 209, 8-1-2017)
2-3-15: SUSPENSION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Conditions; Hearing: The Governing Body may suspend any license or
permit issued under this chapter if the licensee or permittee fails to pay
sales taxes and the Wyoming Liquor Division has ceased sales of alcoholic
liquor to the licensee or permittee pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-2-
306. Upon receipt by the Town Clerk-Treasurer of a certified notice from the
State of Wyoming issued pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-2-306, and upon
order of the Governing Body, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the licensee
or permittee, by certified mail, that the Town intends to hold a hearing on
whether the license or permit should be suspended. The suspension hearing shall
be conducted under the Wyoming Administrative Procedures Act 1 , and rules
adopted by the Governing Body. The certified notice from the State and all
evidence presented to the State in support of the certified notice will be
admitted and considered prima facie evidence of the licensee's or permittee's
tax delinquency. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Appeal: In the event a license or permit is suspended in accordance
with this section, the holder of the license or permit may appeal the
suspension in accordance with the provisions of Wyoming Statutes section 12-7-
103.
   C.   Term Of Suspension: The suspension of the license or permit shall
remain in effect until either the Governing Body lifts the suspension, a court
of competent jurisdiction lifts the suspension, or the Town Clerk-Treasurer
receives certified notice from the State that the sales tax liability has been
satisfied. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996)
   D.   Notice Of Suspension: In the event a suspension occurs, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall send by certified mail one (1) copy each of the suspension
notice to the last known addresses of the license or permit holder and to the
Director of the Wyoming Liquor Division for the State. Additionally, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall post one (1) copy of the suspension notice on the
licensed or permitted premises. Immediately upon the posting of the suspension
notice, the sale, offering to sell, distribution or traffic of alcoholic liquor
or malt beverages shall be unlawful. Further, the licensee or permittee shall
either remove all of the alcoholic liquor and malt beverages or secure the
alcoholic liquor and malt beverage in a manner approved in writing by the Town.
(Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 16-3-101.
2-3-16: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 142, 6-18-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Declaration Of Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Accumulation Prohibited
3-1-4: Storing Or Scattering Refuse Prohibited
3-1-5: Premises To Be Clean And Orderly
3-1-6: Dead Animals
3-1-7: Vacant Lots
3-1-8: Burning Conditions And Regulations
3-1-9: Nuisance; Remedies
3-1-10: Penalty
3-1-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
This chapter is declared to be strictly a sanitary measure, enacted for the
promotion and protection of the public health and safety, and to prevent fire
hazards and nuisances. The town council is hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to use every means at its disposal, including its police powers, for
the enforcement hereof. (1986 Code § 10-201)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, as herein used, are hereby defined and shall be taken and
held to mean and include:
GARBAGE: Any and all kitchen refuse, rejected or waste food, meats, fish, fowl,
offal, carrion, or other refuse accumulation of fruits, vegetables or animal
matter that attends the preparation, use, cooking or dealing in or storing of
meats, fish, fowl, fruits, vegetables, or anything whatsoever which may
decompose and become foul, offensive, unsanitary or dangerous to health.
REFUSE: Any and all grass clippings, leaves, hay, straw, shavings, paper,
ashes, rubbish, containers, boxes, glass, cans, bottles, and any and all other
material commonly known as rubbish or refuse of any kind or character, or by
any name known, except as herein excluded. (1986 Code §§ 10-202, 10-203)
3-1-3: ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
Any place or abode or any place of business in operation shall be prima facie
evidence that refuse and/or garbage is being produced and accumulated on such
premises, and it shall be the duty of the proper representatives of the town to
inspect and supervise said premises. Any accumulation of refuse and/or garbage
on any premises in the town is hereby declared to be a nuisance, is prohibited
hereunder, and is a misdemeanor, punishable as hereinafter provided. (1986 Code
§ 10-204)
3-1-4: STORING OR SCATTERING REFUSE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No hay, straw, shavings, paper or other combustible materials, sod,
lawn mowings, leaves, weeds, ashes, garbage, bottles, broken glass, nails,
tacks, wire, cans, rocks, stones, or any other refuse or material, shall be
accumulated so as to become a nuisance anywhere in the town, or thrown or swept
into any street, gutter, sewer, intake, alley, vacant lot, or other property.
   B.   No dirt, rubbish, or refuse of any kind shall be thrown, swept or
pushed into the street in front of any store or place of business by the owner,
manager, or any employee or agent thereof. Each business establishment shall be
held responsible for keeping the sidewalk in front of such building free of any
accumulation of dirt, papers or rubbish which, when so removed, shall be taken
up and deposited with other refuse from such establishment. The violation of
this subsection shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as hereinafter
provided, and the owner or manager of such business shall be held liable for
any violation hereof. (1986 Code § 10-205)
3-1-5: PREMISES TO BE CLEAN AND ORDERLY:
It shall be the duty of every person, whether owner, lessee or renter, of any
lot, building or premises, including place of business, hotel, restaurant,
dwelling house, apartment, tenement, or any other establishment, at all times
to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition, permitting no
deposit or accumulation of materials (including, but not limited to, not more
than 2 junked vehicles or machinery), other than those ordinarily attendant
upon the use for which said premises are legally intended. Any such
accumulation of these requirements is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
The person who shall create or maintain a nuisance under this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as herein provided. This section shall be
enforceable, in addition to the other remedies provided by law, by injunction,
mandamus or abatement. (1986 Code § 10-206)
3-1-6: DEAD ANIMALS:
It shall be the duty of every person being the owner of or having in his
possession or charge, any animal which shall in any manner come to its death
within the town to immediately remove the body or carcass of such animal to the
city dump, and to bury the same under three feet (3') of ground. (Exception:
Pets may be disposed of in a manner agreeable to the town.) The failure of any
person having the duty to do so to immediately remove the body or carcass of
such dead animal and to bury the same under three feet (3') of ground as
provided for in this section shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as hereinafter
provided. (1986 Code § 10-207; amd. 2012 Code)
3-1-7: VACANT LOTS:
It shall be the duty of every person, whether owner, lessee or renter, of any
vacant lot to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition,
permitting no accumulation or unsightly growth of weeds. The failure of any
person having the duty to do so to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly
condition without the accumulation of unsightly weeds shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as hereinafter provided, and shall be deemed the author
of a nuisance. (1986 Code § 10-208)
3-1-8: BURNING CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any, garbage,
waste, packing material, trash, discarded boxes or other materials within the
town limits without having first obtained special written permission from the
town. The town shall grant such permission if, in his opinion, the burning of
the above described materials can be accomplished without danger to adjoining
property or undue contamination to the air in the vicinity. The town shall not
be held to assume any liability by reason of having granted permission to burn
any of the materials mentioned herein if such burning should cause damage to
other person's property. The permission granted shall be valid for only forty
eight (48) hours from the time of issuance. (1986 Code § 10-101; amd. 2012
Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCE; REMEDIES:
In addition to the other remedies provided herein, the town shall, upon
discovering a nuisance, as defined herein, give notice to the author of such
nuisance or to the owner, lessee or renter of the premises upon which the same
is found, to abate and remove the nuisance within forty eight (48) hours, and
if such author, owner, lessee or renter shall fail to abate or remove said
nuisance within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of notice from the town,
the town may abate and remove the same at the expense of the author, owner,
lessee or renter, which cost and expense may be recovered by the town in a
civil action. (1986 Code § 10-209; amd. 2012 Code)
3-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person who shall be convicted of a violation any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1986 Code § 10-210; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Weeds Defined
3-2-2: Duty To Maintain Premises
3-2-3: Failure To Comply; Notice; Abatement
3-2-4: Penalty
3-2-1: WEEDS DEFINED:
"Weeds" include any plant growth over eight inches (8") in height or length
which is not compatible in an area of commercial or residential development, or
which endangers property, or which would burn readily if fired. Whether plant
is noxious or not or whether the plant is desired in its location by the owner
or occupant of the property shall not be considered in determining whether a
plant is or is not a weed. (Ord. 160, 1-4-2005)
3-2-2: DUTY TO MAINTAIN PREMISES:
   A.   Required: It shall be the duty of every person, whether an owner,
lessee, renter, agent, contractor, purchaser or otherwise, in charge of any
premises located within the town, including any vacant lot, place of business,
dwelling house, tenement, apartment, construction site, or any other
establishment, to at all times maintain the premises in a clean and orderly
condition, free of any unsightly growth of weeds.
   B.   Garbage And Refuse Accumulation: No deposit or accumulation of garbage,
other than ordinarily attendant upon the use for which the premises is legally
authorized, shall not be permitted in the areas or by the persons addressed
above, nor shall the same be permitted upon any public streets or alleys. (Ord.
160, 1-4-2005)
   C.   Storage Of Junk: It is unlawful for any person to store or allow or
permit the storage of a material, including, but not limited to, any junk,
junked vehicles, machinery or equipment not screened from ordinary public view
upon any real property addressed above or upon any public streets or alley.
This subsection does not apply to commercial businesses otherwise operating in
accordance with applicable zoning and health and safety laws. The phrase
"screened from public view" means in a manner which does not constitute a
health hazard or an attractive nuisance by means of suitable fencing, trees or
other suitable shrubbery or opaque covering. (Ord. 160, 1-4-2005; amd. 2012
Code)
   D.   Included Premises: The premises to be maintained includes all public
rights of way adjacent to the premises, such as sidewalks, curb and gutter and
to the center of the alleys. Public streets are not included herein.
   E.   Nuisance Declared: The unsightly growth of weeds or the accumulation of
garbage as addressed above is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance and
nonconforming use of the premises and in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 160,
1-4-2005)
3-2-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY; NOTICE; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice; Time Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to remove any offending weed or accumulation of garbage
within three (3) days or within an otherwise designated time period after the
date written notice of the nuisance is received by such person from a town
official. Every day the nuisance continues, commencing on the date on which it
is ordered to be removed in the notice, shall constitute a separate offense.
Notification will be considered when hand delivered or after having been mailed
by certified mail to the last known address of the premises, or when posted in
a prominent place on the subject property if the person in charge cannot, with
due diligence and within a reasonable time, be located. The notice shall state
generally the nature and location of the nuisance and the duty and time within
which said nuisance must be abated. (Ord. 160, 1-4-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Notice Applicability: Once a person has been notified regarding an
existing nuisance on a particular property, such person will be considered
notified with respect to any property owned or controlled by such person within
the town. Notification will not be required prior to the issuance of a citation
once a person has been previously notified two (2) times with respect to
violations on any property under such person's ownership or control.
   C.   Abatement By Town: In the event a person responsible for the abatement
of a nuisance fails to abate such nuisance within the time stated in the
notice, or if such person cannot be located within a reasonable amount of time,
the town may abate the nuisance either with town employees or by the hiring of
private individuals, and may thereafter assess the costs of such abatement
against the subject property or against the subject property by any legal means
available. The town may proceed to enjoin such nuisance by legal action in
addition to invoking any and all other penalties provided for in this chapter
or other available legal remedies. (Ord. 160, 1-4-2005)
3-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2012 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Identification Of Siren Sounding
4-1-2: Right Of Way
4-1-3: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-1-4: Burning Prohibited; Bonfire Permits
4-1-5: Penalty
4-1-1: IDENTIFICATION OF SIREN SOUNDING:
Should the need arise, the siren will be sounded to indicate a need and in this
identification of said soundings:
   A.   One blast for medical emergencies. (1986 Code § 7-110)
   B.   Two (2) blasts for town crew meeting. (1986 Code § 7-110; amd. 2012
Code)
   C.   Three (3) blasts for fire.
   D.   Four (4) blasts for additional manpower is required, especially for
firefighting.
   E.   Five (5) blasts for curfew, should need arise. (1986 Code § 7-110)
4-1-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
All motor equipment and all personal cars of town officials shall have the
right of way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm. (1986 Code §
7-101; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire
hose except on specific orders from the town. (1986 Code § 7-103; amd. 2012
Code)
   B.   Causing Obstruction: No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise
cause any obstruction to be placed within three hundred feet (300') of the
entrance to any fire station or other place where fire apparatus is stored, or
within ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant or cistern. (1986 Code § 7-104)
   C.   Unauthorized Following Of Fire Vehicles: No unauthorized person shall
follow, with any vehicle, within three hundred feet (300') of any fire
apparatus, or park any vehicle within three hundred feet (300') of a fire.
(1986 Code § 7-105; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-4: BURNING PROHIBITED; BONFIRE PERMITS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn papers, rubbish, garbage,
refuse, leaves, grass, brush, animal waste, treated or painted wood, or
combustible substances within the city.
   B.   Bonfires, open fires, or camp fires may be ignited or burned in
connection with recreational, religious, or school activities after first
acquiring a burn permit from the Town. Said fires may only be ignited with and
burn untreated or unpainted wood.
   C.   One recreational fire per lot which meets the following definition
shall be exempt from a burn permit:
      1.   An outdoor, on privately owned property, in an appropriate non-
combustible container or fire ring, burning materials other than rubbish, with
a total fire area of three feet (3') or less inside diameter and two feet (2')
or less in height, for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or
other similar purposes.
      2.   Recreational fires shall not be conducted within fifteen feet (15')
of a structure or combustible material. Conditions which could cause a fire to
spread within fifteen feet (15') of a structure shall be removed or eliminated
prior to ignition.
      3.   Recreational fires must utilize a screen or spark arrestor and it
must be in place while burning.
   D.   Open burning shall be constantly attended by an adult until the fire is
extinguished. A minimum of one (1) portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-
A rating or other approved on-site fire extinguishing equipment must be
available for immediate utilization.
   E.   Open burning shall not be permitted between the hours of two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   F.   Outdoor grills, barbeques, charcoal grills, purchased gas outdoor
fireplaces are exempt when used in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
   G.   Open burning shall be prohibited when weather conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous. (Ord. 225, 7-22-2021)
4-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1986 Code § 7-107; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Animal Control Authority And Enforcement
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Licensing Of Dogs
4-2-4: Containment Of Dogs
4-2-5: Harboring Of Prohibited Animals
4-2-6: Running At Large
4-2-7: Vicious Dogs
4-2-8: Cruelty Or Inhumane Treatment Prohibited
4-2-9: Impoundment And Euthanasia
4-2-10: Penalty
4-2-1: ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this
chapter and to enforce its provisions, any agent of the animal control
authority or the town is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which an
animal is kept or harbored and to demand the exhibition by the owner of such
animal, or license of such animal, or to examine the care of said animal and
evaluate it.
   B.   Use Of Humane And Safe Traps: The animal control authority or the town
is hereby authorized to place or authorize the use of humane and safe traps
designed to capture an animal without injury to the animal for the purpose of
capturing nuisance animals on public property or any private property in the
town at the written request of the owner of such property. (Ord. 168, 10-3-
2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Mayor Authorized To Issue Proclamation Of Confinement: The mayor is
hereby authorized, whenever in his opinion the town or a portion of it has
become infested with nuisance and stray dogs and/or cats which endanger public
health and safety, to issue a proclamation ordering persons owning dogs and
cats to confine the same by good and sufficient means on their premises. Any
cat or dog running at large during this period of proclamation shall be
immediately impounded and confined in the animal shelter in a humane way.
   D.   Obstruction To Animal Control Authority Prohibited: It is unlawful to
hinder, obstruct or delay any officer of the animal control authority who is in
the process of an investigation, or taking up any animal pursuant hereto, or
break open or in any way aid or assist in breaking open any trap, pound or
enclosure with the intent to release any animal therein confined. (Ord. 168,
10-3-2006)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms mean:
ABANDONED ANIMALS: Refers to dogs which have been left and deserted by an owner
or harborer within the town limits.
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY: The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by
the animal control authority, which shall consist of those persons so
designated by the town council.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons employed by the town to enforce
this chapter, who may also be referred to as the dog warden.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated by action of the town for the purpose
of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large in violation of
this chapter.
AT LARGE: Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when he is off the property of
his owner and not under the control of a competent person.
CURRENT AND EFFECTIVE RABIES VACCINATION: The inoculation of a dog with
antirabies vaccine administered by any licensed veterinarian, beginning at six
(6) months of age, followed by a vaccination every two (2) years.
DOG: Shall be intended to mean both male and female.
DOG KENNEL: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, or training for a fee
or selling of dogs.
NEUTERED ANIMAL: Any dog that has been permanently rendered incapable of
reproduction.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons or corporation owning, keeping or harboring
any dog or dogs for more than thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any dog which:
   A.   Molests passerby or passing vehicles;
   B.   Attacks or repeatedly fights with other animals;
   C.   Trespasses on school grounds;
   D.   Is repeatedly at large;
   E.   Damages public or private property;
   F.   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion;
   G.   Is abandoned;
   H.   Is vicious.
RESTRAINT: A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter if it is
controlled by a leash, on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
street, or within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog which has bitten any person shall thereafter be presumed
to be a vicious dog, and/or any dog that has manifested a disposition to bite,
except as follows: a dog which has bitten any person not lawfully in a building
or the enclosed premises of its owner, or which has bitten a person who has
unreasonably provoked such a dog, or a dog which bites a person in protection
of its owner, or a member of its family, shall not be deemed a vicious dog or a
dog who has manifested a disposition to bite. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
4-2-3: LICENSING OF DOGS:
   A.   License, Vaccination Required; Fee: No person shall own, keep or harbor
any dog within the town unless such dog is licensed and vaccinated for rabies
as herein provided:
      1.   Each dog owner shall obtain from a licensed veterinarian a durable
rabies vaccination tag and a certificate of vaccination for each dog owned,
which shall be kept current and effective for the period of the time for which
the dog license shall be issued.
      2.   Application for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after
obtaining a dog over six (6) months of age, except that nonresidents may keep
an unlicensed dog within the town up to sixty (60) days. Written application
shall be to the town clerk-treasurer and shall include the animal name, breed,
age, color and sex.
      3.   A license shall be issued upon receipt of current rabies vaccination
and the receipt of the application yearly fee:
         a.   Neutered dogs (male and female), two dollars fifty cents ($2.50);
         b.   Unneutered dogs (male and female), five dollars ($5.00).
      4.   Dogs of licensing age that are owned and acquired during the second
half of each licensing year, July 1 through June 30, shall be exempt from
paying the full licensing fee. The fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the yearly
rate:
         a.   Neutered dogs (male and female), one dollar twenty five cents
($1.25);
         b.   Unneutered dogs (male and female), two dollars fifty cents
($2.50).
   B.   Annual Application: All dog licenses shall be issued for one year
beginning July 1. Applications for licenses may be made prior to and for thirty
(30) days after the start of the licensing year, without penalty, but when
application is made after the thirty (30) days, the license shall be issued
upon receipt of the applicable late license fee, which will be:
      1.   Neutered dogs (male and female), seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50);
      2.   Unneutered dogs (male and female), ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   Lost Tags: In the event the license tag issued for the dog is lost, the
owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the payment of two dollars ($2.00).
   D.   Unlawful To Use License On Different Dogs: No person shall use for any
dog a license receipt or license tag issued for another dog.
   E.   Issuance Of Tag: Upon compliance with the provisions of subsections A
through D of this section, there shall be issued to the owner of the dog a
numbered metallic tag, stamped with the number and year for which issued.
   F.   Tags Fastened To Collar, Chain Or Harness: Both the rabies vaccination
tag and license tag are to be securely fastened to the dog's chain, collar or
harness, which must be worn by the dog at all times. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
4-2-4: CONTAINMENT OF DOGS:
   A.   Restraint: The owner shall keep his dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, or off the premises or property
of the owner, unless under the control of a competent person.
   B.   Female Dogs In Estrus (Heat): Every female dog in heat shall be
confined in a building or a secure enclosure in such a manner that such female
dog cannot come into contact with another animal, except for planned breeding
under the control of a responsible person.
   C.   Prevention Of Nuisance Dog:
      1.   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his
animals to prevent them from becoming a nuisance. Dogs or other animals whose
ownership cannot be determined or who have been abandoned may be destroyed.
      2.   Upon declaration of a public nuisance, the animal control officer
may dispose of any unlicensed animals, the ownership of which cannot be
determined (abandoned animals).
   D.   Unlicensed, Running At Large Or Nuisance Offenses:
      1.   First Offense:
         a.   When a dog is found unlicensed, when a dog is found running at
large, or when a citizen complaint has been received about a nuisance dog for
the first time in a licensing period, and the owner is unknown or cannot be
located with reasonable effort, the dog shall be impounded in the animal
shelter. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
         b.   When a dog is found unlicensed, when a dog is found running at
large, or when a citizen complaint has been received about a nuisance dog for
the first time in a licensing period, and the owner is known, the animal
control officer shall return the animal to its owner and issue a warning or
citation to the owner, at the discretion of the animal control officer. In
exercising said discretion, the animal control officer shall review that animal
or owner's history of complaints or violations of this or similar ordinances.
(Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
         c.   If the owner of an unlicensed dog who has received a warning
pursuant to subsection D1b of this section, does not make application for a
license within seven (7) days of such receipt, the animal control officer shall
notify said owner in writing of the following:
            (1)   Date and time the warning was issued;
            (2)   The ordinance provision violated;
            (3)   The amount of the fine for violation and instructions on how
to pay it or contest it;
            (4)   The consequences of failure to pay such fine or make an
appearance.
         d.   The fine for violation of this subsection is twenty five dollars
($25.00).
      2.   Second Offense:
         a.   When a dog is found unlicensed, when a dog is found running at
large, or when a citizen complaint has been received about a nuisance dog for
the second time in a licensing period, and the owner is unknown or cannot be
located with reasonable effort, the dog shall be impounded in the animal
shelter.
         b.   When a dog is found unlicensed, when a dog is found running at
large, or when a citizen complaint has been received about a nuisance dog for
the second time in a licensing period, and the owner is known, the animal
control officer shall cite the owner. The citation shall contain the following:
            (1)   Date and time of the violation and a description of the
animal and the location where the animal was sighted or found;
            (2)   The ordinance provision violated;
            (3)   The amount of the fine for violation and instructions on how
to pay it or contest it;
            (4)   The consequences of failure to pay such fine or make an
appearance.
         c.   The fine for violation of this subsection is fifty dollars
($50.00).
      3.   Third Or Subsequent Offense:
         a.   When a dog is found unlicensed, when a dog is found running at
large, or when a citizen complaint has been received about a nuisance dog for
the third or subsequent time in a licensing period, the animal shall be
impounded and confined in the animal shelter in a humane manner or the owner
shall be cited. The citation shall contain the following:
            (1)   Date and time of the violation and a description of the
animal and the location where the animal was sighted or found;
            (2)   The ordinance provision violated;
            (3)   The amount of the fine for violation and instructions on how
to pay it or contest it;
            (4)   The consequences of failure to pay such fine or to make an
appearance.
         b.   The fine for violation of this subsection is one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
4-2-5: HARBORING OF PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
   A.   Declared Unlawful Nuisance: It shall be unlawful for any person,
persons, firm or corporation to keep or harbor within the town any horses,
cattle, mules, asses, sheep, swine, goats, chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks,
snakes, lizards or other animals or fowl of any kind, ages, descriptions,
domestic or otherwise; except that nothing herein shall be construed to mean or
include dogs, cats or household pets on any premises within the corporate
limits of the town.
   B.   Town Council May Include Other Animals: The town council may, whenever
it deems necessary to, declare any other animal or animals being kept or
harbored with the town to be a nuisance. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
4-2-6: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Declared Unlawful Nuisance: All horses, cattle, mules, asses, sheep,
swine, goats, chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, snakes, lizards or other animals
or fowl running at large within the town are hereby declared to be a nuisance
and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons being the owners or
harborers of such animals or fowl and to allow the same to run at large or be
found at large within the town. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
   B.   Impoundment; Charge For Keeping: The town is hereby authorized to take
up and confine in a secure pen or pound, or other place to be provided by the
town for that purpose, every horse, mule, ass, cattle, sheep, swine or goat
running at large within the town. No animal so taken up and confined shall be
released until the owner or harborer thereof, or other person for him, shall
pay the town having such animal in keeping the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per
day.
   C.   Sale Of Impounded Animals: The town is hereby empowered and authorized
to sell at public auction any and all such animals taken up and confined as
aforesaid at any time after fifteen (15) days from the time they were taken up
and confined and shall, before offering the same for sale, give at least ten
(10) days' notice of such sale by publishing a notice in the newspaper having a
general circulation in the town and which is published within the county of
Washakie and also by posting at least three (3) notices of such sale in three
(3) public places in the town. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Animals To Be Redeemed: Any animals impounded hereunder may be redeemed
by the owner or other person for him paying to the town any impoundment fees,
sustenance costs, advertising costs, vet boarding costs and any fines imposed.
   E.   Excess Sale Proceeds: If any animal is sold pursuant to this section
for more than the charges imposed upon the animal, the excess shall be
deposited with the town clerk- treasurer, to be paid to the owner of such
animal, upon claim and proof of ownership to the town council, by order of the
town council in favor of the owner.
   F.   Unlawful To Obstruct: It is unlawful to hinder, obstruct or delay any
officer in taking up any animal pursuant hereto, or to break open or in any way
aid or assist in breaking open any pen, pound or enclosure with the intent to
release any animal therein confined. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
4-2-7: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Unlawful To Own, Keep Or Harbor: No person shall own, keep or harbor
and allow to be upon any premises occupied by him or under his charge or
control any vicious dog, or any dog that has manifested a disposition to bite
anyone, without having such dog properly secured and muzzled. (Ord. 168, 10-3-
2006)
   B.   Nuisance And Danger: Pursuant to section 1 of article 13, XVIII, of the
constitution of the state of Wyoming and Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-103(a)
(xiv), the council hereby determines and declares that the keeping within the
town of vicious dogs not properly confined and muzzled is a nuisance and
constitutes an unreasonable and immediate danger to the health and welfare of
the community and its citizens. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Dog To Be Impounded And Quarantined After Bite: It shall be the duty of
the town or animal control officer to pick up and impound with the animal
control authority, any dog which has been reported to the town or the animal
control officer as having bitten any human being within the town. All such
officers are authorized to enter upon private premises at any time in order to
affect such seizure and impoundment. Said quarantined animal will be taken
immediately to a veterinarian for a mandatory ten (10) day observation period.
(Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Conditions For Release Of Impounded Dog: Any dog impounded pursuant to
this section may be released to its owner upon the owner presenting to the town
clerk-treasurer, or other authorized designees, proof that the dog has received
rabies vaccine within two (2) years preceding the date of the bite, and upon
payment of impoundment fees as provided by the town. If no proof of rabies
vaccination is presented, the dog shall be observed by the animal control
authority for a period of ten (10) days. The animal control officer may, at his
discretion, keep the dog impounded during the ten (10) day period, or he may
release the dog to the care of its owner to be quarantined for a like period,
at the expiration of which the dog shall be returned to the animal control
authority or its designee for examination. If the dog is found to be rabid, it
shall be destroyed at once, and the victim of that animal bite shall be
immediately notified by the animal control authority of the fact that the dog
was found to be rabid. If, at the end of the ten (10) day period, the dog is
found not to be rabid, it shall be released to its owner upon payment by the
owner of the impoundment fees provided for by the town, and the animal control
authority immediately shall notify the victim of the animal bite that the
animal was found not to be rabid. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
   E.   Second Or Subsequent Bites: Any dog which has been impounded one or
more times pursuant to subsections A through D of this section, which again
bites any human being within the town shall be immediately impounded by the
town or the animal control officer. The officer may enter onto any premises
within the town at any time to effectuate the seizure and impoundment.
Impoundment shall be with the animal control authority. Such impoundment shall
not provide for release until after a hearing by the municipal judge on the
question of whether or not the animal should be destroyed. Immediately upon
impounding any animal for a second or subsequent bite, the officer impounding
the dog shall notify the town attorney of such impoundment, together with any
and all information available to him as to the name of the dog, his license tag
number, if any, and the name and address of the owner of the animal, if known.
(Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   F.   Hearing Date: Upon notification that an animal has been impounded for a
second or subsequent bite, the town attorney shall request the municipal judge
to set a date for hearing the question as to whether or not the dog should be
destroyed. The hearing date must be at least ten (10) days after the
impoundment, so that the animal may be observed for signs of rabies, and at
least ten (10) days after the giving or publication of notice as provided in
subsection G of this section. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
   G.   Owner Notification Of Hearing: Immediately upon setting of a date for
hearing, the town attorney shall cause a notice of the hearing to be served
upon the owner of the dog, specifying the date, time, place and purpose of said
hearing. If the owner of the dog is not known, and cannot be discovered by
reasonable diligence, the town attorney shall cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation, notice of said hearing specifying the date,
time, place and purpose of said hearing, as complete a description of the dog
as possible, the date and time of the animal bite and the name of the victim,
together with precise a location of the occurrence as is available. Such notice
must be served or published at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing
provided for herein. Service may be certified mail or personally by an
authorized official. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   H.   Conclusion Of Hearing, Action To Be Taken: At the conclusion of the
hearing, the municipal judge shall decide whether or not the dog should be
destroyed. If the municipal judge decides the dog is not to be destroyed, the
dog shall be released to its owner upon payment of the appropriate impoundment
fees. If the municipal judge decides that the dog should be destroyed, he shall
issue an order to that effect to the animal control authority, and the animal
shall be immediately destroyed by the animal control authority in the most
humane manner practically available. The owner of the dog shall be assessed all
impoundment fees, from the date of the impoundment to the date of destruction,
together with the costs of the destruction of the animal. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006;
amd. 2012 Code)
4-2-8: CRUELTY OR INHUMANE TREATMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   Care Required: No person shall torture, torment, deprive of sustenance,
unnecessarily beat, maliciously mutilate or kill, or otherwise mistreat in a
cruel or inhumane manner, any animal, or cause or procure it to be done; or
having the charge and custody of any animal, fail to care for it in a
reasonable manner.
   B.   Included Care: Care of an animal shall include, but not be limited to,
adequate heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water,
consistent with normal requirements and habits for an animal of that species,
breed and size.
   C.   Authority To Impound And/Or Euthanize: In the event that the animal
control officer finds an animal whose treatment or care does not meet the
requirements of this section, the animal control officer shall have the
authority forthwith to impound said animal for proper treatment and care at the
owner's expense, or to euthanize said animal when necessary to prevent further
suffering. Return of the animal may be withheld until full payment of expenses
has been received. Return of the animal without full payment does not relieve
the owner of liability for said expenses.
   D.   Animals Impounded And Not Claimed: Any animal impounded hereunder and
not claimed by its owner within three (3) days of impoundment shall become the
property of the animal control authority. Such animals may be euthanized, or
may be placed in the custody of some person deemed to be responsible and a
suitable owner who shall agree to comply with all town ordinances and
regulations in respect herewith. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
4-2-9: IMPOUNDMENT AND EUTHANASIA:
   A.   Time Limit Of Impoundment: Impounded animals shall be kept for not more
than three (3) working days. Any animal not claimed by its owner within such a
period shall become the property of the animal control authority. Such animals
may be humanely destroyed or may be placed in the custody of some person deemed
to be a responsible and suited owner, who shall agree to comply with the town
ordinances and regulations in respect therewith.
   B.   Impoundment Fees: Any dog impounded hereunder may be reclaimed as
herein provided, upon payment by the owner to the town clerk-treasurer of the
impoundment fees, in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each day of
impoundment. All such fees shall be paid before the animal may be released to
the owner.
   C.   Owner Notification Of Dog Impoundment: Immediately upon impounding a
dog, the agents of the animal control authority shall make every possible
effort to notify the owner of such animals and inform such owner of the
conditions whereby they may regain custody of such animals.
   D.   Owner Entitled To Resume Possession Of Dog: The owner shall be entitled
to resume possession of any impounded animal, except as hereinafter provided,
upon compliance with the license provisions and the payment of impoundment fees
set forth herein.
   E.   Impoundment Euthanasia: Dogs impounded for the maximum of three (3)
working days and unclaimed, or dogs impounded and not placed in the custody of
a competent person after the three (3) day period, are to be humanely destroyed
by an injection of such substance as to cause a quick, painless humane death.
   F.   Emergency Injury Euthanasia: In the event an animal control officer
finds an animal that has been severely injured so as to prohibit safe removal
of the animal for medical care, such animal may, by the decision and discretion
of the animal control officer, be immediately and humanely as possible be
euthanized to prevent further suffering by the animal.
   G.   Emergency Disease Euthanasia: In the event an animal control officer
finds an animal who is diagnosed by a licensed veterinarian as having such a
dread communicable disease, such as rabies, parvovirus, distemper, hepatitis
and/or other diseases that have rendered the animal into a general state of
debilitation, and/or health danger to the community or animal shelter, with a
poor recovery prognosis, said animal is to be destroyed in an immediate and
humane nature to prevent further suffering of the animal. (Ord. 168, 10-3-2006)
4-2-10: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2012 Code)
ARTICLE A. CATS
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Definitions
4-2A-2: Licensing Of Cats
4-2A-3: Unlicensed Cats
4-2A-4: Impoundment And Euthanasia
4-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms mean:
ABANDONED ANIMALS: Refers to cats which have been left and deserted by an owner
or harborer within the town limits.
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY: The provisions of this article shall be enforced by
the animal control authority, which shall consist of these persons so
designated by the town council.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person or persons employed by the town to enforce
this article, who may also be referred to as the cat warden.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated by action of the town for the purpose
of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large in violation of
this article.
CAT: Shall be intended to mean both male and female.
CURRENT AND EFFECTIVE RABIES VACCINATION: The inoculation of a cat with
antirabies vaccine administered by any licensed veterinarian, beginning at six
(6) months of age, followed by a vaccination every two (2) years.
NEUTERED ANIMAL: Any cat that has been permanently rendered incapable of
reproduction.
OWNER: Any person, groups of persons or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring any cat or cats for more than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 180, 2-9-2011)
4-2A-2: LICENSING OF CATS:
   A.   License, Vaccination Required; Fee: No person shall own, keep or harbor
any cat within the town unless such cat is licensed and vaccinated for rabies
as herein provided:
      1.   Each cat owner shall obtain from a licensed veterinarian a durable
rabies vaccination tag and a certificate of vaccination for each cat owned,
which shall be kept current and effective for the period of the time for which
the cat license shall be issued.
      2.   Application for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after
obtaining a cat over six (6) months of age, except that nonresidents may keep
an unlicensed cat within the town up to sixty (60) days. Written application
shall be to the town clerk-treasurer and shall include the animal name, breed,
age, color and sex.
      3.   A license shall be issued upon receipt of current rabies vaccination
and the receipt of the application yearly fee:
         a.   Neutered cats (male and female), two dollars fifty cents ($2.50).
         b.   Unneutered cats (male and female), five dollars ($5.00).
      4.   Cats of licensing age that are owned and acquired during the second
half of each licensing year, July 1 through June 30, shall be exempt from
paying the full licensing fee. The fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the yearly
rate:
         a.   Neutered cats (male and female), one dollar twenty five cents
($1.25).
         b.   Unneutered cats (male and female), two dollars fifty cents
($2.50).
   B.   Annual Application: All cat licenses shall be issued for one year
beginning with July 1. Applications for license may be made prior to and for
thirty (30) days after the start of the licensing year without penalty, but
when application is made after the thirty (30) days, the license shall be
issued upon receipt of the applicable late license fee, which will be:
      1.   Neutered cats (male and female), seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50).
      2.   Unneutered cats (male and female), ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   Lost Tags: In the event the license tag issued for the cat is lost, the
owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon payment of two dollars ($2.00). (Ord.
180, 2-9-2011)
   D.   Unlawful To Use License On Different Cats: No person shall use for any
cat a license receipt or license tag issued for another cat. (Ord. 180, 2-9-
2011; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Issuance Of Tag: Upon compliance with the provisions of subsections A
through D of this section, there shall be issued to the owner of the cat a
numbered metallic tag, stamped with the number and year for which issued.
   F.   Tags Fastened To Collar: Both the rabies vaccination tag and license
tag are to be securely fastened to the cat's collar, which must be worn by the
cat at all times. (Ord. 180, 2-9-2011)
4-2A-3: UNLICENSED CATS:
   A.   First Offense:
      1.   When a cat is found unlicensed for the first time in a licensing
period, and the owner is unknown or cannot be located with reasonable effort,
the cat shall be impounded in the animal shelter.
      2.   When a cat is found unlicensed for the first time in a licensing
period and the owner is known, the animal control officer shall return the
animal to its owner and issue a warning or citation to the owner at the
discretion of the animal control officer. In exercising said discretion, the
animal control officer shall review that animal or owner's history of
complaints or violations of this or similar ordinances.
      3.   If the owner of an unlicensed cat who has received a warning
pursuant to subsection A2 of this section does not make application for a
license within seven (7) days of such receipt, the animal control officer shall
notify said owner in writing of the following:
         a.   Date and time the warning was issued;
         b.   The ordinance provision violated;
         c.   The amount of the fine for violation and instructions on how to
pay it or contest it;
         d.   The consequences of failure to pay such fine or make an
appearance.
      4.   The fine for violation of this subsection is twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   B.   Second Offense:
      1.   When a cat is found unlicensed for the second time in a licensing
period and the owner is unknown or cannot be located with reasonable effort,
the cat shall be impounded in the animal shelter.
      2.   When a cat is found unlicensed for the second time in a licensing
period and the owner is known, the animal control officer shall cite the owner.
The citation shall contain the following:
         a.   Date and time the warning was issued;
         b.   The ordinance provision violated;
         c.   The amount of the fine for violation and instructions on how to
pay it or contest it;
         d.   The consequences of failure to pay such fine or make an
appearance.
      3.   The fine for violation of this subsection is fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Third Or Subsequent Offenses:
      1.   When a cat is found unlicensed for the third or subsequent time in a
licensing period, the animal shall be impounded and confined in the animal
shelter in a humane manner or the owner shall be cited. The citation shall
contain the following:
         a.   Date and time the warning was issued;
         b.   The ordinance provision violated;
         c.   The amount of the fine for violation and instructions on how to
pay it or contest it;
         d.   The consequences of failure to pay such fine or make an
appearance.
      2.   The fine for violation of this subsection is one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 180, 2-9-2011)
4-2A-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND EUTHANASIA:
   A.   Time Limit Of Impoundment: Impounded animals shall be kept for not more
than five (5) working days. Any animal not claimed by its owner within such a
period shall become the property of the animal control authority. Such animals
may be humanely destroyed or may be placed in the custody of some person deemed
to be a responsible and suited owner, who shall agree to comply with the town
ordinances and regulations in respect therewith.
   B.   Impoundment Fees: Any cat impounded hereunder may be reclaimed as
herein provided upon payment by the owner to the town clerk-treasurer of the
impoundment fees in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for each day of
impoundment. All such fees shall be paid before the animal may be released to
the owner.
   C.   Owner Notification Of Cat Impoundment: Immediately upon impounding a
cat, the agents of the animal control authority shall make every possible
effort to notify the owner of such animals and inform such owner of the
conditions whereby they may regain custody of such animals.
   D.   Owner Entitled To Resume Possession Of Cat: The owner shall be entitled
to resume possession of any impounded animal, except as hereinafter provided,
upon compliance with the license provisions and the payment of impoundment fees
set forth herein.
   E.   Impoundment Euthanasia: Cats impounded for the maximum of five (5)
working days and unclaimed, or cats impounded and not placed in the custody of
a competent person after the five (5) day period, are to be humanely destroyed
by an injection of such substance as to cause a quick, painless, humane death.
   F.   Emergency Injury Euthanasia: In the event an animal control officer
finds an animal that has been severely injured so as to prohibit safe removal
of the animal for medical care, such animal may, by the decision and discretion
of the animal control officer, be immediately and humanely as possible
euthanized to prevent further suffering by the animal.
   G.   Emergency Disease Euthanasia: In the event an animal control officer
finds an animal who is diagnosed by a licensed veterinarian as having such a
dread communicable disease, such as rabies, parvovirus, distemper, hepatitis
and/or other diseases that have rendered the animal into a general state of
debilitation and/or health danger to the community or animal shelter, with a
poor recovery prognosis, said animal is to be destroyed in an immediate and
humane nature to prevent further suffering of the animal. (Ord. 180, 2-9-2011)
CHAPTER 3
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Assault And Battery
4-3-2: Injuring Or Defacing Property
4-3-3: Camping On Town Property
4-3-4: Crossing Improved Lots
4-3-5: Discharging Firearms
4-3-6: Disorderly Conduct
4-3-7: Disturbing Assemblages
4-3-8: False Alarms
4-3-9: Fence Construction And Requirements
4-3-10: Interference With Fire Alarms, Hydrants, Water Mains
4-3-11: Gambling
4-3-12: Malicious Mischief
4-3-13: Interference With Town Employees
4-3-14: Nudity In Public
4-3-15: Obscenity
4-3-16: Prostitution
4-3-17: Abandonment Of Containers Accessible To Children
4-3-18: Shoplifting
4-3-19: Controlled Substances
4-3-20: Aboveground Storage Of Flammable Or Combustible Liquids Or Gases
4-3-21: Penalty
4-3-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful to touch another person in a rude, insolent or angry
manner. (1986 Code § 15-101)
4-3-2: INJURING OR DEFACING PROPERTY:
No person, unless he shall have a permit therefor from the town council, shall
cut, break or in any way injure or deface any tree, shrub, plant, flower or
turf, or any building, fence, bridge or other structures, or any street, alley,
curb or gutter, water or sewer line or sewer intake, or any tools, equipment or
anything whatsoever, that has been planted, built, constructed, installed or is
maintained by, or is the property of, the town. (1986 Code § 15-102)
4-3-3: CAMPING ON TOWN PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions:
    CAMP FACILITIES: Includes, but are not limited to, tents, huts, motor
vehicles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes or temporary structures when
established, maintained or operated to camp.
   CAMP OR CAMPING: The activity of living temporarily in the outdoors,
including to place, pitch or use camp facilities or camp paraphernalia for such
purposes.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA: Includes, but are not limited to, bedrolls, blankets,
tarpaulins, cots, beds, sleeping bags, tents and hammocks, items used for
cooking food or similar equipment. Camp paraphernalia also includes other
personal effects, when used or stored with camp paraphernalia as described
herein.
   B.   Approval Required: Camping is not allowed on town property, including
the town park and town streets and alleys, unless preapproved by the town.
(Ord. 172, 2-5-2008)
4-3-4: CROSSING IMPROVED LOTS:
No person shall walk, run, ride or in any other manner cross over or upon any
lawn, garden or otherwise improved lot, whether enclosed or not, without
permission of the owner or occupant thereof. (1986 Code § 15-104)
4-3-5: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
No person shall fire or discharge any cannon, gun, fowling piece, pistol,
revolver or firearm of any description, except for law enforcement officers in
the performance of their duties. (1986 Code § 15-105)
4-3-6: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Conduct Specified: A person shall be deemed guilty of disorderly
conduct if he wilfully:
      1.   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or
damaged.
      2.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another.
      3.   Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to incite
a riot. For the purposes of this section, the term "riot" shall mean a
tumultuous disturbance of the peace by persons assembled and acting with a
common intent to the terror of the people of the town, whether in executing a
lawful enterprise in a violent or turbulent manner or in executing an unlawful
enterprise in a violent or turbulent manner. (1986 Code § 15-106)
      4.   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when
ordered to do so by lawful authority.
      5.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive
condition.
      6.   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse where one or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and the
public health and safety is immediately threatened.
      7.   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by any authorized
official of the town. (1986 Code § 15-106; amd. 2012 Code)
      8.   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby that other is placed in danger of his life, limb or health.
      9.   Interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence.
      10.   Uses abusive, profane or obscene language in any public place.
   B.   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of
disorderly conduct. (1986 Code § 15-106)
4-3-7: DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES:
   A.   No person shall disturb any lawful assemblages of people by rude,
boisterous or indecent behavior or otherwise.
   B.   No person shall annoy or disturb any congregation or assembly, gathered
together for religious worship, by making a noise, by rude or indecent behavior
or profane discourse, within the place wherein such congregation or assembly is
gathered together or so near the same as to be heard by or tending to disturb
the persons so engaged or assembled. (1986 Code § 15-107)
4-3-8: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   False Fire Alarms: No person shall knowingly give a false alarm of fire
except those for test purposes given or caused to be given by the town. (1986
Code § 15-108; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   False Alarms; False Call For Police Assistance: It shall be unlawful
for any person to call any police officer to any place, falsely pretending, or
falsely giving such officer to understand that he is needed or wanted in any
place as such officer. (1986 Code § 15-109)
4-3-9: FENCE CONSTRUCTION AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Dangerous Fences Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
erect or maintain upon residential property in the town any barbed wire fence,
electric fence or fence of any other nature which is so constructed so as to be
potentially dangerous to human beings.
   B.   Height Restrictions: No fence, hedge or wall shall exceed six feet (6')
in height from ground level within the town without obtaining a permit from the
town.
   C.   Corner Lots; Sight Triangle: No fence, hedge or wall on a corner lot
shall exceed four feet (4') when located within thirty feet (30') of the corner
formed by the front lot line and the side lot line, along the side street.
   D.   Placement Within Rights Of Way: Fences may not be constructed within
the right of way of any dedicated street or alley unless written permission is
first obtained from the town. Fences constructed within the right of way or
dedicated street or alley, or within the area of a dedicated utility easement,
are subject to be relocated or removed by the town and other franchise
utilities at the expense of the property owner, and the right of the town and
other franchise utilities to relocate, maintain and improve, replace and expand
utility lines and equipment, and the right to ingress and egress for such
purposes shall be deemed to supersede and have precedence over any consent that
may be granted within the right of way of a dedicated street or alley or within
a dedicated utility easement. Any fence, hedge wall or other improvement
erected within such areas, even with consent of the town, shall be at the sole
risk of the owner and such improvements may be removed, damaged or destroyed by
the town or other franchise utilities. (Ord. 183, 9-8-2011)
4-3-10: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARMS, HYDRANTS, WATER MAINS:
   A.   Fire Alarm System: No person shall interfere with any part of the fire
alarm system, unless so authorized by the town. (1986 Code § 15-111; amd. 2012
Code)
   B.   Fire Hydrants, Water Mains: No person shall shut off or turn on or
interfere in any way with any fire hydrant, valve or water main in the town.
(1986 Code § 15-112)
4-3-11: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall play, deal, carry on or conduct any game
whatsoever, or any plan, scheme or device for money, checks, credits, goods,
chattels or anything of value by means of cards, dice, wheels, slot machines,
vending devices, tops, punchboards, lotteries, raffles or any contrivance,
means, device or machine of any denomination or name whatsoever within the
town, except as provided by state statute. (1986 Code § 15-113)
   B.   Allowing On Premises: No person shall knowingly permit subsection A of
this section to be violated in or upon the premises owned, managed or
controlled by him. (1986 Code § 15-114)
   C.   Confiscation Of Devices: It shall be the duty of the town to seize any
game, device, cards, tools and implements, or other articles or things,
designed for the purpose of gambling, employed or used by or in the possession
of parties arrested for gambling, and, upon conviction of the parties so
arrested, and upon order of the judge, to confiscate and destroy the same.
(1986 Code § 15-115; amd. 2012 Code)
4-3-12: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wantonly or mischievously break or
destroy, in any manner, any property of another. (1986 Code § 15-116)
4-3-13: INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN EMPLOYEES:
No person shall interfere in any way with any employee of the town in the
performance of his work, nor displace any stakes or landmarks deposited or
installed by any employee, nor in any way molest any tools, instruments or
equipment of any employee, nor in any way molest any tools, instruments or
equipment used by such employee in the duties assigned to him. (1986 Code § 15-
117)
4-3-14: NUDITY IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity in any
public place. For the purposes of this section, the word "nudity" shall mean
the showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area or female
breasts with less than a fully opaque covering. (1986 Code § 15-118)
4-3-15: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
    AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other
pictorial representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other
article, equipment or machines.
   OBSCENE: That to the average person apply contemporary community standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., a shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct,
nudity or excretion; and
      2.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (1986 Code § 15-119)
   B.   Prohibited Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Disseminate, distribute or make available to the public any obscene
material;
      2.   Engage or participate in any obscene performance made available to
the public;
      3.   Engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials depicting and
describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or excretion utilizing displays,
circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts that promote such
commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
         d.   Promote the commission of any of the above listed unlawful acts.
(1986 Code § 15-120)
   C.   Presumption Of Knowledge: Actual notice of the obscene nature of such
material, performance or activity may be given to a person involved in or
responsible for such from the town attorney on the basis of information
lawfully gathered and supplied to him by the police or citizens:
      1.   Such notice shall be in writing and delivered by mail or in person
to the alleged offender.
      2.   Such notice shall state that:
         a.   In the opinion of the town attorney, the activity engaged in
falls within the prohibitions of subsection B of this section;
         b.   That if such activity has not ceased within seven (7) days, the
town attorney will take appropriate legal action; and
         c.   That a declaratory judgment proceeding as described in subsection
D2 of this section is available if a person engaged in the challenged activity
wishes to initiate the legal determination of whether the activity is in fact
obscene. (1986 Code § 15-121; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Proceedings:
      1.   In Rem Proceedings:
         a.   The town may apply to the town attorney to institute an
attachment proceeding against any material which is alleged to be obscene in a
sworn affidavit.
         b.   Upon filing of an application for attachment authorized in
subsection D1a of this section, the town shall immediately cause notice thereof
to be served either personally or by mail upon any person residing or doing
business in the town who is known or believed by the town to have any of the
following interest in material named in the complaint: (1986 Code § 15-122;
amd. 2012 Code)
            (1)   The publisher; and
            (2)   The wholesaler, distributor, circulator; and
            (3)   Every retailer or dealer who has, or may have, possession of
any material identical to material named in the complaint.
         c.   Trial shall be held no later than the fourth judicial day
following the filing for attachment.
      2.   Declaratory Judgment:
         a.   Any person receiving notice in writing from the town attorney
under subsection C of this section that a specified activity is obscene may
bring an action against the town for a declaratory judgment to determine
whether such activity is obscene.
         b.   If it is adjudged and declared by the court that such activity is
obscene, then the town attorney may cause the publication of such judgment in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town and upon such publication all
persons will be presumed to have actual notice of the nature of the activity.
      3.   Criminal Prosecution:
         a.   The town attorney may cause criminal charges to be brought
against any person presently engaging in or who has engaged in any prohibited
activity in violation of subsection B of this section.
         b.   If the town attorney has given notice pursuant to subsection C of
this section, then such criminal charges may be brought only after seven (7)
judicial days after receipt of such notice.
      4.   Injunction:
         a.   The town attorney may seek a temporary restraining order to
enjoin any obscene performance or the service of patrons in violation of
subsection B of this section.
         b.   If the town attorney has given written notice pursuant to
subsection C of this section, he may, after the passage of seven (7) judicial
days, seek such a temporary restraining order.
         c.   Proceedings authorized by this section shall be in addition to
any other provided by state law. (1986 Code § 15-122)
4-3-16: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   No person shall keep, set up, maintain or operate any place, structure,
building or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, or with knowledge or
reasonable cause to know that the same is or is to be used for such purpose, or
receive or offer to agree to receive any person in any place, structure,
building or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, or permit any person to
remain therein for such purpose.
   B.   No person shall direct, take, transport or offer to agree to take or
transport, any person to any place, structure or building or to any other
person with knowledge or reasonable cause to know that the purpose of such
directing, taking or transporting is prostitution.
   C.   No person shall reside in, enter or remain in any place, structure or
building, or enter or remain in any conveyance for the purpose of prostitution.
   D.   No person shall engage in or solicit prostitution or aid or abet
prostitution, by solicitation or by any means whatsoever. (1986 Code § 15-123)
4-3-17: ABANDONMENT OF CONTAINERS ACCESSIBLE TO CHILDREN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, dwelling or other structure under his control, in a place accessible
to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or
other container which has an airtight door or lid, snaplock or other locking
devices, which may not be released from the inside, without first removing the
door or lid, snaplock or other locking device from such icebox, refrigerator or
container. (1986 Code § 15-124)
4-3-18: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully conceal or take
possession of any goods offered for sale by wholesale or retail stores or other
mercantile establishments, without the knowledge or consent of the owner
thereof and with intent to convert the goods to his own use without paying the
purchase price.
   B.   Any police officer, merchant or merchant's employee who has reasonable
cause of shoplifting, as defined by subsection A of this section, may detain
and interrogate such person in regard thereto in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable time.
   C.   When a police officer, merchant or merchant's employee, with reasonable
cause for believing that a person has committed the crime for shoplifting, as
defined in subsection A of this section, detains and interrogates such person
in regard thereto, and such person thereafter brings against the police
officer, merchant or merchant's employee a civil criminal action for slander,
false arrest, false imprisonment, assault, battery or wrongful detention based
upon the detention and interrogation, such reasonable cause shall be a defense
to the action if the detention and interrogation were done in a reasonable
manner and for a reasonable time. (1986 Code § 15-125)
4-3-19: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Specified: No person shall have in their possession, sell, dispose of,
give away or receive any of the following drugs or compounds, or derivatives
thereof, except as otherwise provided by state law:
      1.   Narcotics: The term "narcotics" shall include heroin, morphine,
methadone, opium, codeine, meperidine, demerol, dilaudid, cocaine, ucaine, beta
ucaine, alpha ucaine, or any sole compound or derivative thereof;
      2.   Amphetamines: The term "amphetamines" shall include benzedrine,
dexedrine or methadone or any salt or optical isomer of amphetamines;
      3.   Barbiturates: The term "barbiturates" shall include phenobarbital,
seconal, paraldehyde, pentobarbital, phenothiazaes, chloralhydrate, or any
slats of barbituric acid;
      4.   Hallucinogens: The term "hallucinogens" shall include LSD (lysergic
acid diethylamide), DOM (STP, 2-5 dimethoszy 4 methylamphetamine), THC
(tetrahydrocannabinol), mescaline, peyote, marijuana, hashish (hash),
psilocybin and DMT (N-N-dimethyltryptamine), or Salvia divinorum and Salvinorin
A, or any drug or compound that has hallucinogenic properties.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall have in their possession, sell, dispose
of, give away, or receive any paraphernalia containing residue, burned or
otherwise, of the above mentioned narcotics, amphetamines, barbiturates or
hallucinogens, their derivatives or compounds. (Ord. 177, 1-5-2010; amd. 2012
Code)
4-3-20: ABOVEGROUND STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS OR GASES:
Use of aboveground tanks for storage of flammable or combustible liquids or
gases is prohibited with the exception of tanks to store propane gas. (Ord.
182, 8-2-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
4-3-21: PENALTY:
Whenever a person shall be found guilty of violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, such person shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1986 Code § 15-126; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Offenses
4-4-3: Defenses
4-4-4: Enforcement
4-4-5: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CURFEW HOURS: A. Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day; and
   B.   One minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. on any Saturday or Sunday.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of public
has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleys,
sidewalks, public parks and schools.
REMAIN: To linger or stay.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 149, 8-15-2000)
4-4-2: OFFENSES:
A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place within the town
during "curfew hours", as defined in section
4-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 149, 8-15-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
4-4-3: DEFENSES:
It is a defense to prosecution under section
4-4-2 of this chapter that the minor was:
   A.   Accompanied by a minor's parent or guardian;
   B.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   C.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   D.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   E.   Involved in an emergency; (Ord. 149, 8-15-2000)
   F.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the town
about the minor's presence; (Ord. 149, 8-15-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
   G.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults or sponsored by a civic organization, or another similar
entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home
from, without any detour or stop, an official school, religious or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
   H.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
   I.   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with Wyoming Statutes. (Ord. 149, 8-15-2000)
4-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this section, law enforcement
officials shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The official shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this chapter unless the official reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
section
4-4-3 of this chapter is present. The official shall attempt to contact the
offending minor's parent or guardian upon arrest or citation. (Ord. 149, 8-15-
2000)
4-4-5: PENALTY:
   A.   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable
by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   If the arresting or citating official was able to contact the minor's
parent or guardian at the time of the offending minor's arrest or citation, and
if said minor does not have a previous conviction for violating this chapter,
then the fine shall be suspended. (Ord. 149, 8-15-2000)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Applicability Of Chapter Relating To Sales
4-5-2: Usage Restrictions
4-5-3: Limitations On Use And Discharge
4-5-4: Permits For Public Displays
4-5-5: Confiscation
4-5-6: Penalty
4-5-1: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER RELATING TO SALES:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person or persons shall offer for sale or
expose for any sale any fireworks within the town and its limits. (1986 Code §
8-101)
4-5-2: USAGE RESTRICTIONS:
The use of fireworks, explosives, combustible articles or explosive devices of
all kinds is prohibited in the corporate limits of the town; providing however,
that fireworks, explosives, combustible articles or explosive devices otherwise
complying with state and town laws may be used at such times and places as the
mayor and town council may designate. (1986 Code § 8-102)
4-5-3: LIMITATIONS ON USE AND DISCHARGE:
   A.   No fireworks shall be in any way fired or discharged at any time within
the town by individuals, organizations, or private parties within the town,
with the exception of the following dates and holidays:
      1.   New Year’s Eve beginning at twelve o’clock (12:00) P.M. on December
31 until one o’clock (1:00) A.M. on January 1.
      2.   Independence Day celebrations on July 2 through July 6. On July 2,
July 3, July 5, and July 6, fireworks will be allowed beginning at twelve
o’clock (12:00) P.M. daily until twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. the following day.
On July 4, fireworks will be allowed beginning at eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
until twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. the following day.
      3.   Upon such other days and times by permit approved by the town
council. The issuance of such a permit shall not be construed as an assumption
of liability to any degree whatsoever by the town for damage to persons or
properties resulting directly or indirectly from such fireworks. Each applicant
shall be deemed upon receiving a permit to have indemnified the town from any
liability arising directly or indirectly from such firework use.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge any type of
fireworks, articles, or devices on or within the areas known as Second Street,
between Fir and Cottonwood, and to include the area known as the town park and
recreation area. (1986 Code § 8-103; amd. 2012 Code) (Ord. 219, 12-3-2019)
4-5-4: PERMITS FOR PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
Permits may be granted by the mayor and town council for the use of a
supervised public display of fireworks by the municipality and/or other
organizations or groups, and such a display shall be handled by a competent
operator and shall be of such character and so located as not to be hazardous
to property or endanger any person. The issuance of such a permit shall be not
be construed as an assumption of liability to any degree whatsoever by the town
for damage to persons or properties resulting directly or indirectly from such
fireworks. Each applicant shall be deemed upon receiving a permit to have
indemnified the town from any liability arising directly or indirectly from
such firework use. (1986 Code § 8-104) (amd. Ord. 220, 3-3-2020)
4-5-5: CONFISCATION:
The county sheriff or his deputies will and shall have the authority to seize,
take, remove or cause to be removed, at the expense of the person or persons,
all unlawful fireworks, fireworks offered or exposed for sale or stored or held
in violation of sections
4-5-1,
4-5-2 and
4-5-3 of this chapter, and such fireworks shall be destroyed or otherwise
disposed of upon order of the municipal court. (1986 Code § 8-105; amd. 2012
Code)
4-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person or persons violating section
4-5-1,
4-5-2 or
4-5-3 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1986 Code § 8-106; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Motor Vehicle Code
5-1-2: Speed Limits; Driving Regulations
5-1-3: Vehicle Equipment Requirements
5-1-4: Second Street Stop Signs
5-1-5: Penalty
5-1-1: MOTOR VEHICLE CODE:
Pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-119, the following sections of the
uniform act regulating traffic on highways, Wyoming Statutes title 31, chapter
5, as the same are now amended, are hereby adopted by reference and set forth
in full herein:
   A.   Sections 31-5-101 to 31-5-108 inclusive;
   B.   Section 31-5-112;
   C.   Sections 31-5-115 to 31-5-117, inclusive;
   D.   Sections 31-5-201 to 31-5-212, inclusive;
   E.   Sections 31-5-214 to 31-5-224, inclusive;
   F.   Section 31-5-226;
   G.   Sections 31-5-229 to 31-5-232, inclusive;
   H.   Sections 31-5-302 to 31-5-306, inclusive;
   I.   Sections 31-5-402 to 31-5-407, inclusive;
   J.   Sections 31-5-503 to 31-5-512, inclusive;
   K.   Sections 31-5-601 to 31-5-607, inclusive;
   L.   Section 31-5-901;
   M.   Sections 31-5-910 to 31-5-936, inclusive;
   N.   Section 31-5-950;
   O.   Sections 31-5-952 to 31-5-956, inclusive;
   P.   Section 31-5-960;
   Q.   Sections 31-5-1102 to 31-5-1106, inclusive;
   R.   Sections 31-5-1202 to 31-5-1203, inclusive;
   S.   Section 31-5-1206; and
   T.   Section 31-5-1213. (1986 Code § 24-101; amd. 2012 Code)
5-1-2: SPEED LIMITS; DRIVING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Speed Limit Generally; Exception:
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any highway, street or
alley within the incorporate limits of the town at a greater speed than is
reasonable and proper, having regard for traffic, nor at a rate of speed such
as to endanger the life or limb of any person. No motor vehicle or truck of
more than one-half (1/2) ton capacity shall be operated upon any highway,
street or alley within the incorporate limits of the town at a speed exceeding
twenty five (25) or thirty (30) miles per hour.
      2.   The speed limits in this subsection shall not apply to physicians or
surgeons, police or fire vehicles or ambulances when answering emergency calls
demanding excessive speed. (1986 Code § 21-102)
   B.   Specific Speed Limits:
      1.   There is hereby established for the town the following speed limits,
which shall be enforced in zones so marked and be evidenced by appropriate
signs placed in an area where they are visible to persons using the roadways:
         a.   School zones: Fifteen (15) miles per hour;
         b.   Second Street or U.S. Highway 16 within the town limits: Thirty
(30) miles per hour;
         c.   All other streets within the town: Twenty five (25) miles per
hour;
      2.   The speed limits set forth in subsection B1 of this section
contemplate normal driving conditions and the provisions of the Wyoming
Statutes regarding speed too fast for conditions shall apply in all other
instances. (1986 Code § 16-109)
   C.   Careless Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
operate any motor vehicle whatsoever upon any highway, street or alley in the
town so carelessly and negligently as to do harm to other vehicles, property or
persons.
   D.   Driving Under The Influence: It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive or operate any motor vehicle upon any highway, street or alley in the
town while under the influence of intoxicating liquors, wine, beer or ale.
(1986 Code § 21-102)
5-1-3: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or drive any motor
vehicle upon any highway, street or alley in the town after dusk without two
(2) headlights and at least one taillight, said lights to be in perfect working
order at all times. It shall be unlawful to operate or drive or run the engine
of any motor vehicle in the corporate limits of the town with the muffler
cutout open or disconnected; and further, it shall be unlawful to unnecessarily
run or race the motor with the cutout open. Each and every motor vehicle shall
be equipped with brakes that shall be in good working order at all times. (1986
Code § 24-301; amd. 2012 Code)
5-1-4: SECOND STREET STOP SIGNS:
Second Street, running east and west through the town, shall be considered a
through street. At intersections of all streets and alleys running north and
south and coming into Second Street, there shall be erected a signal, sign or
marker with the warning "STOP" plainly stamped, printed, stenciled or painted
thereon in such colors and in such manner that the word "stop" will be plainly
visible to the driver or operator of any motor vehicle. It shall be the duty of
all such drivers or operators of said motor vehicle, when approaching said sign
or signal in the town, to come to a complete stop with said motor vehicle
within at least twenty feet (20') thereof, and shall not proceed until the
street is clear and safe to travel. (1986 Code § 21-101)
5-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Operation Regulations
5-2-3: Prohibited Vehicles
5-2-4: Inspection
5-2-5: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
OPERATE: To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
OWNER: A person other than a lienholder having the property in or title to a
snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
SNOWMOBILE: Any mechanically driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners or skis, or any endless tread or combination of these designated
primarily for operation over the snow. (1986 Code § 20-101)
5-2-2: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile at any
place within the town in the following ways or under the following
circumstances:
   A.   Any snowmobile may only be operated or driven in the town to move the
snowmobile on the most expeditious route to the town limits from the residence
of the owner or a business where the snowmobile is located.
   B.   At a rate of speed no greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   C.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage to such person or
property.
   D.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit
forming drugs.
   E.   Without a lighted headlamp and taillamp, and a flag attached to a whip
antenna a minimum of eight feet (8') in length.
   F.   In any planting area in a manner which damages or destroys growing
stock.
   G.   Without a muffler in good working order and connected to the snowmobile
exhaust system.
   H.   Without brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
such vehicle. (1986 Code § 20-102)
   I.   On any sidewalk of the town except when necessary to enter or emerge
from an alley within the town. (1986 Code § 20-102; amd. 2012 Code)
   J.   On direct crossing of a street or highway unless:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      2.   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
      3.   The driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
      4.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at the
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   K.   While towing a sled, toboggan or other object, except with a solid
hitch.
   L.   If the operator does not hold a valid, current driver's license, or is
not accompanied by a licensed driver who is actually occupying a seat in the
snowmobile while such snowmobile is being operated upon the roadway, shoulder
or in slope of any road, street, highway or alley in the municipality.
   M.   Abreast of another snowmobile upon any street, alley or highway.
   N.   Between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise; provided, however, this section shall not prohibit the owner or
operator of a snow vehicle from going directly out of town or returning to the
residence of said owner or operator after said hours.
   O.   In any municipal park or recreation area controlled by the
municipality, except when posted as "open" to snowmobiles within the hours
permitted.
   P.   Upon private property, other than that of the snowmobile owner or
operator, without the express permission of the owner.
   Q.   While carrying a bow or firearm, unless the same is securely encased.
   R.   Leaving or allowing a snowmobile to be or remain unattended on public
property, streets, highways or other public grounds or places while the motor
is running or with keys to start such snowmobile in the ignition switch.
   S.   Without observing all traffic signs, signals, rules and regulations
applying to motor vehicles.
   T.   Upon any road, street or highway in the municipality kept open for
vehicular traffic, except:
      1.   For a special snowmobile event of limited duration when conducted on
a prearranged schedule under permit from the governing body;
      2.   In crossing a street as provided in subsection J of this section;
      3.   On streets or roads not maintained for winter vehicular travel;
      4.   Within the right of way but not on the main traveled roadway;
      5.   On any roadway which the town council may from time to time
designate as those over which over-snow vehicles shall not be driven, which
designated roadways shall be exhibited at the town hall and shall be notice to
any persons using over-snow vehicles and any person driving along said roadway
three (3) days after the prohibition and exhibition as aforesaid shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Provided however, that it shall not be in violation
of this subsection to go directly across such designated streets, avenues or
alleys. (1986 Code § 20-102)
5-2-3: PROHIBITED VEHICLES:
No over-snow vehicle shall be operated within the corporate limits of the town
which are propeller driven or which have tracks capable of damaging the road
surface, or which have a gross weight exceeding one thousand seven hundred
fifty (1,750) pounds. (1986 Code § 20-103)
5-2-4: INSPECTION:
The town may at any time, upon reasonable cause to believe that an over-snow
vehicle is unsafe or not equipped as required by this chapter, or that its
equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair, require the driver of such
vehicle to stop and submit such vehicle to an inspection and test as may be
appropriate. No person shall operate any over- snow vehicle after receiving
such notice until such vehicle and its equipment have been properly repaired
and adjusted and otherwise made to conform to the requirements of this chapter;
provided, however, this section shall not prohibit a person from returning said
vehicle to the residence of the owner or to a place of repair. (1986 Code § 20-
104; amd. 2012 Code)
5-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs of suit. (1986 Code § 20-105; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Applicability And Title
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Parking Regulations
5-3-4: Ticketing Vehicles For Violation
5-3-5: Fines For Traffic Ticket Violations
5-3-6: Second Street Regulations
5-3-1: APPLICABILITY AND TITLE:
This chapter shall establish rules and regulations for parking on all streets
in the town, other than U.S. Highway 16 as it passes through the town, and is
contained by the town limits, which streets shall be governed by the provisions
of section
6-2-1 of this code. (1986 Code § 16-101; amd. 2012 Code)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
OPERATOR: Shall mean and include every individual who shall operate a vehicle
as the owner thereof, or as the agent, employee or permittee of the owner, or
is in actual physical control of the vehicle.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a
street otherwise untemporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, receiving or discharging passengers, or loading or unloading merchandise or
in obedience to traffic regulations, signs or signals, or an involuntary
stopping of the vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of the operator
of the vehicle.
PARKING SPACE: Any space within a restricted parking zone, which is duly
designated for the parking of a single vehicle by lines painted or otherwise
durably marked on the curb or on the surface of the street adjacent to or
adjoining said space.
PERSONS: Shall mean and include any individual, firm, copartnership,
association or corporation.
RESTRICTED PARKING ZONE: Shall mean and include any street upon which parking
time is limited by appropriate signs.
STREET: Any public street, avenue, road, alley, highway, lane, path or other
public place located in the town of Ten Sleep and established for the use of
vehicles. On streets which do not have curbs and gutters, the edge of the
street shall be defined as that area where natural flow or drainage essentially
defines the boundaries of the street. The edge of the streets with curbs and
gutters shall be the curb defining the extent of the street.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a highway, except a device which is operated upon rails or
tracks. (1986 Code § 16-102)
5-3-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Designation Of Parking Spaces:
      1.   The town council is hereby authorized to designate and mark off such
individual parking spaces as they deem proper along the streets of the town for
the parking of vehicles. At each place where individual parking is so marked
off, each vehicle shall be parked entirely within an individual parking space.
      2.   All parking within the town shall be parallel parking with the flow
of traffic and within eighteen inches (18") of the curb, with the exception of
parking on Pine Street south of Second Street to the alley, in which place
angle parking shall be permitted.
      3.   Parking in any manner shall be permitted on an unimproved area
between the street and town property line; provided, that such parking shall
not constitute a hazard to property or traffic.
      4.   No parking will be allowed within ten feet (10') of any fire
hydrant.
      5.   No parking will be allowed that results in a blocked driveway.
      6.   No parking will be allowed on an improved sidewalk.
      7.   Double parking of vehicles on any street or alley is prohibited,
with the exception of commercial vehicles loading and unloading.
      8.   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, with the exception of
commercial vehicles loading or unloading and then as a temporary situation.
(1986 Code § 16-103)
   B.   Designation Of Parking Time: The town council shall determine the
length of time that parking is permissible in an individual parking space;
provided, however, that said time shall not exceed two (2) hours in duration
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
Sundays excluded, in a restricted space so designated by the town council.
Notice to the public shall be given by appropriate signs setting forth the
length of time for which parking is permitted. Any vehicle which remains in an
individual parking space after the prescribed time for parking is hereby
determined to be illegally parked. (1986 Code § 16-104)
   C.   Limited Parking Zones: The town council is hereby authorized to
determine the required space and time limit for the following parking zones and
shall place and maintain appropriate signs and/or markings indicating the same:
      1.   Loading and unloading;
      2.   Hotel and motel guests;
      3.   Taxicabs and for others of a similar nature. (1986 Code § 16-108)
   D.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of or operated by
such person to be parked overtime or parked in such a manner as to be violative
of the provisions set forth in this section. (1986 Code § 16-105; amd. 2012
Code)
5-3-4: TICKETING VEHICLES FOR VIOLATION:
It shall be the duty of the ordinance officer to issue tickets for violations.
It shall also be the duty of the ordinance officer to report the following
information on each ticket issued and attached to a vehicle for a violation of
any provision of this chapter:
   A.   The violation or violations;
   B.   The state and license number of such vehicle;
   C.   The date, time and location of said vehicle;
   D.   The amount of fine, if paid within seventy two (72) hours;
   E.   Officer's name; and
   F.   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violations. (1986 Code § 16-
106)
5-3-5: FINES FOR TRAFFIC TICKET VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Overtime Parking: Initial fine for overtime parking shall be two
dollars ($2.00), which must be paid within seventy two (72) hours. If said fine
is not paid within seventy two (72) hours, the fine shall be ten dollars
($10.00). If the ten dollar ($10.00) fine is not paid within a second seventy
two (72) hour grace period, an additional fine of one dollar ($1.00) per day
shall be assessed up to a maximum fine for each overtime parking violation of
forty dollars ($40.00), at which time a summons and complaint will be issued
for the offender's arrest.
   B.   Other Parking Violations: The initial fine for parking on the sidewalk;
parking in a no parking zone; parking within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
double parking; parking in a driveway; parking on the wrong side of the street;
and others, in violation of the provisions of this chapter, shall be five
dollars ($5.00) per offense, which must be paid within seventy two (72) hours.
If said fine is not paid within the seventy two (72) hour limit, the fine shall
be fifteen dollars ($15.00). If the fifteen dollar ($15.00) fine is not paid
within a second seventy two (72) hour grace period, an additional fine of one
dollar ($1.00) per day shall be assessed up to a maximum fine for each such
parking violation of forty dollars ($40.00), at which time a summons and
complaint will be issued for the offender's arrest. (1986 Code § 16-107)
5-3-6: SECOND STREET REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parallel Parking: No person shall park a vehicle on Second Street
within the town other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the
direction of lawful traffic movement, and with the right hand wheels of the
vehicle within eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the roadway. (1986
Code § 11-101)
   B.   Grades: The grades of the gutters and roadway on Second Street shall be
the same as recommended by the state (acting by and through the state highway
commission) in the state plans and specifications for Wyoming project F-036-1
(6). (1986 Code § 11-102)
   C.   Gasoline Filling Stations: No person, firm or corporation, engaged in
the operation of a gasoline filling station, shall use any portion of Second
Street within the corporate limits of the town to service motor vehicles on and
after November 20, 1959. (1986 Code § 11-103)
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1986 Code § 11-104; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Fee For Removal
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the following meanings:
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event is the
subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease thereof with the
right to purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the agreement
and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or
lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is entitled to possession,
then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed the owner
for the purpose of this chapter.
VEHICLE: Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power.
(1986 Code § 24-201)
5-4-2: FEE FOR REMOVAL:
Any vehicle which shall be parked or left standing upon any town streets,
avenues, alleys, highways, roads, town property and property within the town
limits dedicated to public use, for a period in excess of three (3) days, shall
be deemed an abandoned vehicle, except a vehicle so parked because of adverse
weather conditions. No unlicensed vehicle or trailer may be parked or left
standing at any time upon any town streets, avenues, alleys, highways, roads,
town property and property within the town limits dedicated to public use. Any
vehicle so parked or left standing shall be taken into custody for the town at
the direction of the mayor and held at the expense of the owner or person
entitled to possession. The fee charged for said removal shall be ten dollars
($10.00) and the fee charged for storage shall be one dollar ($1.00) per day,
and both charges shall be assessed as a charge to the owner. (1986 Code § 24-
202; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS ON PUBLIC STREETS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose; Definitions
5-5-2: Unlawful Parking
5-5-3: Parking Of Recreational Vehicles And Trailers On Front Yard Setback
Areas
5-5-4: Storage On Premises By Owner
5-5-5: Exceptions
5-5-1: PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to address health, safety and
welfare concerns as it relates to traffic and pedestrian movements, as well as
ingress and egress from private property onto public streets and rights of way.
The following sections also help to preserve the integrity of property values
by enhancing infrastructure integrity and character of the public rights of way
through enhanced sweeping, snow removal, street repairs, police observation and
abandoned vehicle removals.
   B.   Definitions: The following words and phrases when used in this chapter
shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively
ascribed, as follows:
    BUS: A motorized vehicle designed to transport more than sixteen (16)
persons.
   COMMERCIAL TRAILER: A trailer designed and used by a commercial business.
   FRONT YARD SETBACK: The area between the "public street" and the dwelling or
building closest to the "public street".
   LIVESTOCK TRAILER: A trailer designed for hauling/transporting livestock.
   MOTORIZED: Self-propelled by a motor under the control of a driver.
   PUBLIC STREET: The entire width of every public right of way.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A motorized vehicle, or a nonmotorized vehicle which
can be driven or towed by a motorized vehicle, which is primarily designed for
temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping and/or travel use
including, but not limited to, motorized motorhomes, motorized camping vans,
camp/travel trailers, pop up camp trailers, and slide in pickup box campers
(but not pickup box toppers).
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: A building used primarily for residential occupancy.
   TRAILER: A nonmotorized vehicle which can be towed by a motorized vehicle
and can be used to transport animals, snowmobiles, motorcycles, boats, all-
terrain vehicles (ATVs), other vehicles, equipment, machinery, construction
materials, firewood and other items and things, but does not include
nonmotorized recreational vehicles designed to be towed which are defined as a
"recreational vehicle".
   VEHICLE: Any motorized or nonmotorized vehicle including, but not limited
to: cars, pickups, vans, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), motorized
recreational vehicles, buses, trailers and motorized or nonmotorized
recreational vehicles. (Ord. 198, 4-5-2016, eff. 11-1-2016)
5-5-2: UNLAWFUL PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place, or let stand on any
public street within the town or any municipal parking area any vehicle,
recreational vehicle, trailer, livestock trailer or bus which is not currently
licensed to be operated or towed on public streets or which is inoperable, or
which cannot be safely operated or towed.
   B.   Out of state licensed or registered recreational vehicles, trailers,
livestock trailers or buses will be treated as nonpermanent residence status
vehicles with a maximum per year of two (2) weeks' parking on abutted permitted
property for the purposes of family visitations, gatherings or attending or
participating in a locally sponsored meeting, event or activity.
   C.   It will be unlawful to park any recreational vehicles, trailers,
livestock trailers or buses upon the following public streets with the
exception of loading or unloading for a period not to exceed forty eight (48)
hours throughout the year:
      1.   Second Street between Cottonwood and Willow.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or let stand, any
recreational vehicles, trailers, livestock trailers or buses on any public
street within the town abutting the lot of a residential dwelling, other than
that property owned or rented by the owner of the recreational vehicle,
trailer, livestock trailer or bus, or without the written permission of one or
more of the owners of the abutting residential dwelling.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to live in any recreational
vehicle, trailer, livestock trailer or bus on any public street or municipal
parking area.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or let stand on any
public street or residential driveway within the town any vehicle if any part
of the vehicle extends onto or over any public sidewalk or onto or over the
travel lane of any public street.
   G.   During the period of May 1 through October 31, parking of recreational
vehicles, trailers (excluding livestock trailers) or buses will be allowed to
park on public streets upon the following conditions:
      1.   No more than one recreational vehicle, trailer, or bus will be
allowed to park on public streets within the town abutting the lot of a
residential dwelling owned or rented by the owner of the recreational vehicle,
trailer or bus, or with the written permission of one or more of the owners of
a residential dwelling not owned, provided however that parking is prohibited
on streets designated in subsection C of this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a livestock trailer to
remain parked for a continuous period of more than forty eight (48) hours.
Moving such a vehicle from one location to another shall not exclude a
violation of this section, nor toll the forty eight (48) hour limit if both
locations are on a town street or municipal parking area within town
boundaries.
      3.   All other code sections are still in effect and must be complied
with.
   H.   During the period of November 1 through April 30, it shall be unlawful
for any operator to permit a recreational vehicle, trailer, livestock trailer
or bus to remain parked for a continuous period of more than forty eight (48)
hours on any town street or municipal parking area within town boundaries.
Moving such a vehicle from one location to another shall not exclude a
violation of this section nor toll the forty eight (48) hour limit if both
locations are on a town street or municipal parking area within town
boundaries.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any water hose or line
from any residential dwelling, building or business to any recreational
vehicle, trailer, bus or other vehicle which is parked on any public street
within the town for any period of time where the connected water hose or line
does not lie flat on the surface of the ground, sidewalk or other surface of
the public right of way on which it lies so it does not constitute a tripping
hazard to pedestrians.
   J.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any electric cord or
line from any residential dwelling, building or business to any recreational
vehicle, trailer, bus or other vehicle which is parked on any public street
within the town for any period of time where the connected electric cord or
line does not lie flat on the surface of the ground, sidewalk or other surface
of the public right of way on which it lies so it does not constitute a
tripping hazard to pedestrians. (Ord. 198, 4-5-2016, eff. 11-1-2016)
5-5-3: PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS ON FRONT YARD SETBACK
AREAS:
No more than one recreational vehicle or trailer will be allowed to park on the
front yard setback of any residential dwelling provided that they are parked
upon an approved driveway surface. (Ord. 200, 7-21-2016, eff. 11-1-2016)
5-5-4: STORAGE ON PREMISES BY OWNER:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the storage of recreational
vehicles, trailers, livestock trailers or buses on the home premises of its
owner for any length of time, provided that they are in compliance with this
chapter and all other zoning and town code sections. (Ord. 198, 4-5-2016, eff.
11-1-2016)
5-5-5: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply in a manner so as to prevent the storage of
recreational vehicles, trailers, livestock trailers or buses upon private
property where such property is used for repair or maintenance or for a
commercial purpose, provided that they are in compliance with all other zoning
and town code sections.
This chapter shall not apply in a manner so as to prevent the use of a
commercial trailer while working on projects that require the trailer to be
parked along the abutting property while completing the permitted commercial
project, provided that they are in compliance with this section and all other
zoning and town code sections. (Ord. 198, 4-5-2016, eff. 11-1-2016)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
EXCAVATION OF STREETS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Digging Trenches And Excavations
6-1-2: Paving And Earth; Warning Signals
6-1-3: Restoration Of Street
6-1-1: DIGGING TRENCHES AND EXCAVATIONS:
All trenches and excavations for the laying and repairing of water and sewer
lines shall be done in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public. (1986 Code § 22-101)
6-1-2: PAVING AND EARTH; WARNING SIGNALS:
All paving and earth shall be neatly piled out of the traffic of pedestrians
and the vehicular traveling public, when at all possible. The excavation and
piles of earth shall be made visible to the public, at night, by the use of red
warning lights or reflectors. (1986 Code § 22-102)
6-1-3: RESTORATION OF STREET:
All dirt, gravel or any other filling medium used in the trenches or excavation
shall be replaced and impacted with a powered compactor, returning the street
or alley to a solid compact state, making it as near as possible like the
original state of paving or surfacing. (1986 Code § 22-103; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Sidewalk Specifications
6-2-2: Maintenance Of Sidewalks
6-2-1: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
Any sidewalk constructed within any established street within the corporate
limits of the town shall conform to the following requirements. Sidewalks
installed within established streets which do not conform to these requirements
shall be removed by whoever installs them at no expense to the town.
   A.   Materials: All sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement
concrete conforming to the requirements of section 501 for class A concrete, of
the "Wyoming Public Works Standard Specifications", 1984 edition, with the
following exception:
      Wood surfacing over sidewalk foundation may be used if approval of the
town council is obtained prior to construction. Wood planks must be a maximum
thickness of one and one-half inches (11/2") and a minimum thickness of one
inch (1"), a minimum width of five and one-half inches (51/2"), and be firmly
anchored to the sidewalk using countersunk anchor bolts. All wood sidewalks
shall be constructed in accordance with exhibit A attached hereto.
   B.   Grades And Alignment:
      1.   Before any sidewalk is constructed, data for grades and alignment
shall be obtained from the town. The cost of establishing grade and alignment
in the field shall be the responsibility of the party constructing the
sidewalk.
      2.   Sidewalks in residential areas shall be four feet (4') in width,
adjacent to and parallel with the curb or future curb. Surface of the sidewalk
adjacent to curb shall match top of curb elevation.
      3.   Sidewalks in business areas shall be adjacent to and parallel with
the curb or future curb, and shall be six feet (6') in width or extend to the
building whichever is greater. Sidewalk surface at curb shall match top of curb
elevation.
      4.   If the wood sidewalk option is allowed, the surface of the wood
sidewalk shall be one and one-half inches (11/2") above top of curb elevations.
The wood sidewalk shall extend over the curb section to the face of the curb.
      5.   All concrete sidewalks shall be minimum of four inches (4") in
thickness.
      6.   All wood sidewalks shall be one and one-half inches (11/2") in
thickness over four inches (4") of concrete as shown in exhibit A.
      7.   All sidewalks shall have a minimum slope of one-fourth inch (1/4")
per foot, and shall slope toward the curb.
   C.   Construction:
      1.   Subgrade shall be well graded to the proper elevation and compacted
to ninety five percent (95%) of standard proctor density as determined by
AASHTO T-99.
      2.   Expansion joints shall be installed at intervals not to exceed
twenty feet (20'), with contraction joints at regular intervals not to exceed
four feet (4') in residential areas and six feet (6') in business areas.
      3.   Concrete shall have air content of five percent (5%) to eight
percent (8%). Surface shall be uniform with no more than one-fourth inch (1/4")
variation, when measured with a twelve foot (12') straight edge. Sidewalks
shall have a broomed finish with regular corrugations not over one-eighth inch
(1/8") in depth running from edge to edge.
   D.   Wheelchair Ramps: Wheelchair ramps shall be installed at each corner in
accordance with standard drawing 504.05 of the "Wyoming Public Works Standard
Specifications", 1984 edition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6d836a91e1b0db67594b6a7d26edff83ed59d5c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-604.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6d836a91e1b0db67594b6a7d26edff83ed59d5c8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-606.gif]
 
(1986 Code § 22-201)
6-2-2: MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS:
It shall be the duty of the occupant of any premises within the limits of the
town, or in case the same are unoccupied, then of the owner or his agent, to
keep the sidewalks in front of and adjoining his premises clean and safe for
pedestrians and to repair the same from time to time. Such occupant, owner or
agent shall, with all reasonable dispatch, remove snow, ice, slush, mud or
other impediment to safe and convenient foot travel. Every person failing to
comply with the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of committing
a nuisance and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and a like sum for each day that such nuisance is continued.
(Ord. 116, 12-4-1989; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose And Applicability
6-3-2: Hours Of Use
6-3-3: Permit Requirements; Fee
6-3-4: Maintenance And Cleaning
6-3-5: Prohibited Acts And Activities
6-3-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The town park is maintained for the benefit of the citizens of the
town, guests and tourists, providing them with an area for picnics, plays,
concerts and general outdoor activities usually identified with a park use,
including the use of electric probes designed for the collection of worms.
   B.   In order for the town to maintain the town park in a clean and orderly
condition, the following sections shall apply. (1986 Code § 27-101)
6-3-2: HOURS OF USE:
The town park will be open from sunrise to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., at
which time it shall be deemed closed to further activities. Activities,
including, but not limited to, plays or concerts, that anticipate longer use
may so state when applying for a permit from the town clerk-treasurer, however,
such extensions shall not exceed one hour. (1986 Code § 27-201)
6-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   Local, tax exempt, nonprofit organizations, church sponsored
organizations, school districts, community clubs and fraternal organizations
must apply to the town clerk-treasurer for a permit to conduct activities on
the town park area. No fee will be charged for this permit. (1986 Code § 27-
202)
   B.   Any profit orientated individual or group, other than those mentioned
in subsection A of this section, upon applying for a permit, will be charged a
fee prescribed by the town council. (1986 Code § 27-203)
6-3-4: MAINTENANCE AND CLEANING:
   A.   All participants in family or group picnics or parties involving the
use of food, beverages or both shall be required to discard all refuse created
thereby in the receptacles.
   B.   All persons, groups or organizations conducting activities in the park
under a permit shall reinstate the area to a clean and orderly condition at the
conclusion of said activity. (1986 Code § 27-204)
6-3-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   General: Refer to sections
4-3-1 through
4-3-3,
4-3-6, and
4-3-11 through
4-3-15 of this code. (1986 Code § 27-301)
   B.   Fires: Fires not in established fire pits or fireboxes are prohibited.
Additionally, any fire or burning within the Town must comply with section
4-1-4. (1986 Code § 27-302)
   C.   Metal Detectors: The use of any type of metal detector is prohibited.
(1986 Code § 27-303)
   D.   Animals: All animals with or without restraints are prohibited on the
grass areas, with the exception of seeing eye dogs. Anyone desiring to exercise
animals may do so, with restraints on the animal, in the posted area provided
for such activity, located on the east side of the town park. (1986 Code § 27-
304)
   E.   Motorized Vehicles And Bicycles: With the exception of motorized
wheelchairs, carts or hand powered wheelchairs for the use of handicapped
individuals, all motorized vehicles and bicycles are prohibited on the grass
areas. (1986 Code § 27-305)
   F.   Tents, Sleeping Bag Use: Use of tents or sleeping bags for overnight
use is prohibited. (1986 Code § 27-306)
   G.   Overnight Parking: Parking of recreation vehicles, pickups, campers or
trailers in the parking area overnight is prohibited. (1986 Code § 27-307)
(amd. Ord. 224, 7-6-2021)
CHAPTER 4
TREE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Tree Sizes And Species
6-4-3: Nuisance Or Noxious Trees
6-4-4: Distances From Street Corners And Fire Hydrants
6-4-5: Planting Near Utilities
6-4-6: Public Tree Care
6-4-7: Pruning; Corner Clearance
6-4-8: Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property
6-4-9: Existing Trees In Place
6-4-10: Interference Prohibited
6-4-11: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARK TREES: Trees and other woody vegetation in town parks, and all areas owned
by the town, or to which the public has free access as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees and other woody vegetation on land lying between property
lines on either side of all streets, alleys or ways within the town. (Ord. 161,
1-4-2005)
6-4-2: TREE SIZES AND SPECIES:
The following tree sizes and classifications shall apply in subsequent
sections:
 
Small tree  Up to 25 feet projected height at maturity
Medium tree 25 to 50 feet projected height at maturity
Large tree  Over 40 feet projected height at maturity
 
(Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-3: NUISANCE OR NOXIOUS TREES:
The town council may determine that certain species of trees and other plants
are nuisance or noxious plants by resolution. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-4: DISTANCES FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS:
No street tree shall be planted closer than twenty feet (20') from any street
or alley corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb
lines. No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fire
hydrants. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-5: PLANTING NEAR UTILITIES:
No street trees, other than those species described as small trees in section
6-4-2 of this chapter, may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. (Ord.
161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-6: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The town shall have the right to plan, prune, spray, preserve and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing
town utilities, or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of public grounds. The
town may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an
unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or
is affected by any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-7: PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE:
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street, alley, sidewalk or right of way
within the town shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view from any street
intersection, and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet (8') above
the surface of the street, alley, sidewalk or right of way. Said owners shall
remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The town shall have the right
to trim any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the
proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight, or interferes with
the visibility of any traffic control device or sign, such trimming is to be
confined to the area immediately above the street, alley, sidewalk or right of
way. The town will notify the owners of such trees in writing. Removal shall be
done by said owners at their own expense within sixty (60) days after service
of said notice. In the event of failure of the owners to comply with such
notice, the town shall have the authority to remove said trees and charge the
cost of removal to the owners. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-8: DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town, when such trees constitute a hazard
to the life or property or harbor insects or disease which constitutes a
potential threat to other trees within the town. The town will notify the
owners of such trees in writing. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within sixty (60) days after service of said notice. In the event
of failure of the owners to comply with such notice, the town shall have the
authority to remove said trees and charge the cost of removal to the owners.
(Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-9: EXISTING TREES IN PLACE:
Trees already in place and growing on the effective date hereof shall be exempt
from sections
6-4-4 and
6-4-5 of this chapter. However, any replacement trees shall be governed by
those sections. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-10: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to prevent, delay or interfere with the town or
any of its servants, employees, agents or contractors, while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds as authorized by this
chapter. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005)
6-4-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction,
or plea of guilty, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 161, 1-4-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Consumer Contract
7-1-2: Accounting Maintained
7-1-3: Fees For Disconnections And Reconnections
7-1-4: Excavations
7-1-5: Water Mains
7-1-6: Service Pipes
7-1-7: Meters And Curb Stops
7-1-8: Plumbing Design And Maintenance; Nonliability Of Town
7-1-9: Garden Hose And Sprinkler Line Sizes
7-1-10: Fire Hydrant Usage
7-1-11: Individual Fire Mains
7-1-12: Backflow Prevention
7-1-13: Supplying Water To Other Consumers
7-1-14: Use Of Private Wells
7-1-15: Stock Tanks And Tree Sprayers
7-1-16: Shortages
7-1-17: Right Of Entry
7-1-18: Refusal Of Service Or Modification Of Standard Service
7-1-19: Extensions Beyond Town Limits
7-1-20: Public Water System Expenses
7-1-21: Rates And Charges For Water Usage
7-1-22: Penalty
7-1-1: CONSUMER CONTRACT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be considered a part of the contract with
every person who is supplied with water through the waterworks of this Town.
Every person, taking from the system, shall be considered and held to be bound
thereby. Whenever any of the provisions of this chapter are violated, the water
service shall be turned off from the building or point of service to the
property for such violation, even though two (2) or more parties may receive
water through the same pipe. Water service shall not be restored except by
order of the chief water and sewer operator (chief operator) or his designee,
and then only after the payment of all delinquent water charges, the removal of
the cause for the original disconnection, and the payment of the fees and
charges for the disconnection and reconnection as set forth in section
7-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-2: ACCOUNTING MAINTAINED:
When the Town shall enter into any contract as provided in section
7-1-1 of this chapter, and water is supplied to such applicant thereunder, it
shall be the duty of the Town Clerk- Treasurer to keep a separate, detailed and
accurate account of all water rents and charges due from each consumer, with
all debits and credits as the case may be. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-3: FEES FOR DISCONNECTIONS AND RECONNECTIONS:
The fee for disconnecting and reconnecting service to any consumer shall be set
by the Town Council by resolution. The sole exception to this fee is for
emergency disconnections or reconnections as determined by the chief operator
or his designee. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-4: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Application; Permit: Excavations in streets or alleys of the Town, in
connection with its waterworks system, shall be made only after issuance of a
water permit to a customer, issued by the chief operator, his designee or the
Town Clerk- Treasurer upon written application for water service. Every person
desiring a supply of water must make such application to the chief operator or
Town Clerk-Treasurer upon blanks supplied by said Town for that purpose. The
application shall specify in detail all uses to which the water is to be
applied and no different or additional use will be allowed. No more than one
(1) residential structure shall be supplied from one (1) tap. All residential
and commercial users shall be metered and all meters shall have backflow
prevention. Backflow prevention devices must comply with the current edition of
the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, Water Quality Rules and
Regulations, and must be approved by the chief operator. (Ord. 205, 8-1-2017)
   B.   Requirements Of Excavation: In making excavations in streets or alleys
for the laying of service lines or making repairs, the paving and earth removed
must be deposited in a manner that will result in the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for passage of water along gutters. No person shall
leave any excavation, made in a street or alley, open at any time without
barricade and, during the night, warning lights must be maintained at such
excavation. After service lines are laid, in backfilling, the earth must be
laid in layers of not more than one foot (1') in depth, and each shall be
thoroughly tamped. The streets, sidewalks and pavement must be restored to as
good a condition as previous to making the excavation. All dirt, stones and
rubbish must be removed immediately after completion of the work. If an
excavation in any street or alley shall be left open or unfinished for the
space of forty eight (48) hours, or if the work shall be improperly done, or if
the rubbish shall not be removed, the chief operator or his designee shall have
the right to finish or correct the work. All expenses, so incurred, will be
charged to the consumer before the water service is provided. (Ord. 179, 10-5-
2010)
7-1-5: WATER MAINS:
   A.   Construction And Ownership: All water mains constructed or extended by
the town shall be and remain the property of the town, unless the town council,
in a proper case, shall make an order concerning their transfer. Water mains
not constructed or extended by the town, but connected with a water main of the
town, shall become the property of the town when a transfer thereof to the town
be accepted by the town council, or when such main shall have been constructed
or extended within the right of way of a public street or alley of the town, or
within an area that subsequently becomes the right of way of a public street or
alley of the town. If constructed or extended within the right of way of a
public street or alley of the town, the main shall at that time become, without
a formal transfer and without expense to the town, the property of the town,
unless the town council shall otherwise order. If constructed or extended
within an area that subsequently becomes the right of way of a public street or
alley of the town, the main shall, at time when the area becomes such right of
way, become, without a formal transfer and without expense to the town, the
property of the town, unless the town council shall otherwise order. For the
purpose of this subsection, a public alley or street of the town shall include
not only a public street or alley within the corporate limits, but also a
public street, alley, easement or right of way that is outside the corporate
limits and the easement for which the town holds. The town is responsible for
the water line up to the curb valve and/or meter box, whichever is closer to
the main. The consumer is responsible for the water line from the curb valve or
meter box to the point of service to the property. All meters, valves and curb
stops are property of the town.
   B.   Permit Required To Tap Main: The water mains shall not be tapped by any
party other than the town, unless written permission is granted by the chief
operator or his designee, and then only after the connection fee prescribed in
subsection D of this section is made. Plumbers are strictly prohibited from
turning water into any service pipe. Only the town or the town's contractor
shall tap a town main. The service connection shall comply with the current
edition of the Wyoming public works standard specifications and the Wyoming
department of environmental quality, water quality rules and regulations. All
plumbing and equipment of the owner shall be connected at the owner's expense,
to the service piping in such a manner as meets the approval of the chief
operator or his designee, and all such plumbing shall comply with the current
edition of the international plumbing code. It shall be unlawful for any
plumber or pipefitter to do work on, or operate any of the pipes or
appurtenances of the town waterworks, or to make any connection or extension
thereto, unless such a plumber or pipefitter shall have procured a license from
the town as provided by the ordinances of the town.
   C.   Specifications: Water mains constructed or extended within the right of
way of a public street or alley of the town, or constructed within an area that
subsequently becomes the right of way of a public street or alley of the town,
shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in diameter or larger for residential,
business, commercial and industrial areas. With respect to fire protection
requirements and as determined by the town, water mains, constructed or
extended, shall be a minimum of six inches (6") or larger as required by DEQ
section 12. Water mains shall be constructed of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or
ductile iron pipe (DIP). PVC pipe shall meet or exceed the requirements of AWWA
specification C900-81 and be DR 18 wall thickness or thicker as pressure
requires. DIP pipe shall meet or exceed the requirements of AWWA C-151 and
shall be at least class 51 or thicker wall as depth of bury requires.
   D.   Connections To Main:
      1.   The applicant for in town water service from the waterworks system
shall accompany his application with a connection or tap fee as set by the town
council for the following sizes:
 
Connecting water pipe size 3/4 inch
Connecting water pipe size 1 inch
Connecting water pipe size 2 or 4 inches
 
      2.   Connection or tap fees for applicants who reside outside the
corporate limits or request a service line in excess of one inch (1") shall be
set by the town council.
      3.   The connection fee shall include a tap of the water main,
corporation stop, service line from the main to the curb stop, curb stop and
box (if required by the town) and water meter, backflow preventer (for
residential users), and remote reading device furnished and installed by the
town. All commercial and industrial users (and residential users in excess of 1
inch services) will be responsible for furnishing and installing backflow
prevention in accordance with section
7-1-12 of this chapter. All connections larger in diameter than one inch (1")
shall be evaluated by the town upon application for service. As part of this
application, the applicant shall provide a drawing showing all such
connections, parts and appurtenances, which shall be submitted to the town for
the town's review and approval. The cost of this review and approval shall be
borne by the applicant. The town or the town contractor will provide an
estimate of tap fee costs to include tap of water main, service line from main
to water meter, backflow prevention device and remote reading. The applicant
will be responsible to pay or commit to pay these costs prior to any town
action. All connections shall be under the authority of the chief operator or
his designee and he shall have the authority to cease said work if, in his
opinion, it may jeopardize the water system in any possible way. The applicant,
at his own expense, shall install his service line from the curb stop or meter
box to his point of use. Nothing herein shall be construed so as to obligate
the town to furnish water service to nonresidents (outside the corporate
limits) unless it is able to do so without curtailing the demands of resident
consumers and/or without adversely affecting system pressures and water system.
All new hookups will have meters attached. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-6: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Specifications:
      1.   All service pipes from the point of union with the water main to the
meter shall be of type K copper or SDR 17 PVC, meeting or exceeding the
requirements of ANSI/ASTM D2241-78 (Wyoming public works specifies only type K
copper per federal specification WW-T-799 or ASTM B88-62, or polyethylene [PE]
pressure pipe, tubing and fittings, 1/2 inch through 3 inch. All residential
services shall be 3/4 inch to 1 inch unless a specific exception is granted. PE
pipe shall be pressure tubing conforming to table 6 of said specification.
Tubing shall be class 160 with a DR of 9.0 or class 200 with a DR of 7.3.)
Should any consumer fail, neglect or refuse to replace his service pipe with
the above specified after ten (10) days' notice in writing to do so, such
service pipe may be cut off until the specified service pipe is installed.
Every service pipe shall be laid in such manner as to prevent rupture by
settling.
      2.   This section applies to all new construction, change of status,
service breaks and whenever a consumer goes inactive or requires an upgrade,
except for seasonal actions. Whenever any of the above conditions occur, it is
the intent of the town council to require that the service be in compliance
with this chapter.
   B.   Depth Of Trench: All service pipes must be laid at a minimum depth of
six feet (6'), unless otherwise ordered by the chief operator or his designee
and in all cases shall be so protected so as to prevent rupture by freezing.
(Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-7: METERS AND CURB STOPS:
   A.   Required: Every service line shall be provided with a meter and a meter
box that meets town minimum requirements and is compatible with the town meter
reading equipment. Each meter shall be located on the resident's property line
or as close to the main as possible as directed by the chief operator and shall
be set in a horizontal position when possible. Only the chief operator or his
designee may open or close a curb stop, operate the on/off control valve in the
meter pit/box or in any way tamper with or remove a meter. It is unlawful for
any private party to use a curb stop key on any service or water line governed
by these ordinances.
   B.   Deposits, Testing Of Meters: All new construction, existing users,
change of status, change of water service, change in point of delivery that
originates from the town water system shall be metered. The town will furnish,
at no direct cost to the consumer, a three-fourths inch (3/4") or one inch (1")
water meter with a remote reading device for all existing services at the time
of the adoption date hereof. Meter boxes will also be furnished by the town for
all outside installations up to two inch (2"). Said meter and box, at all
times, shall remain the property of the town, and will not be removed from the
premises except by employees of the town. All meters set and installed will be
kept in repair at the expense of the town unless the damage done was caused by
the negligence or the wilful conduct or the act of the user. When the meters
are, in the opinion of the chief operator or his designee, worn out, they will
be replaced by the town. Hereafter, all meters and remote reading devices shall
be sealed and no person shall deface, injure or break said seal unless
authorized to do so by said chief operator or his designee. All water meters
may be tested at the expense of the town at any reasonable time. To the extent
feasible, all water meters shall hereafter be located at the curb stop or near
the property line and equipped with a remote reading device, which will allow
said meter to be read with the town meter reading equipment and software. All
remote reading devices so set and installed shall be kept in repair at the
expense of the town, unless the damage done was caused by the negligence or the
wilful conduct or act of the consumer. When remote reading devices are, in the
opinion of the chief operator or his designee worn out, they shall be replaced
by the town. The remote reading device shall be the property of the town and
shall not be removed by the owner of the premises. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-8: PLUMBING DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE; NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
   A.   All house boilers shall be constructed with one or more air holes near
the top of the inlet pipe and sufficiently strong to bear the pressure of the
atmosphere under vacuum. All new construction shall include a thermal expansion
tank and all existing construction shall be aware that there is backflow
prevention on all service lines at the meter box or where the service line
leaves the town main. All interior plumbing must be installed and maintained in
accordance with relevant standard plumbing codes.
   B.   The stopcocks, plumbing and other appurtenances must be designed and
maintained so as to bear the pressure and run off the water in the mains. All
persons taking water shall keep their own service lines, stopcocks and
apparatus in good repair, protect them from frost at their own expense, and
shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water. No claim for damage shall be
sustainable against the town or any of its officials or representatives by
reason of the failure of the system of a consumer. The town reserves the right
to shut off the water supply at any time at its discretion, for the purpose of
maintenance or repair, and neither it nor its officials or representatives
shall be liable for damages occasioned thereby. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-9: GARDEN HOSE AND SPRINKLER LINE SIZES:
Hoses larger than one inch (1") and underground sprinkler lines larger than two
inches (2") will not be permitted. This provision does not apply to town parks.
The right is reserved to suspend the use of fountains, yard hydrants and hoses
for sprinkling yards and gardens, and underground sprinklers, whenever it is
necessary in the opinion of the chief operator or his designee. (Ord. 179, 10-
5-2010)
7-1-10: FIRE HYDRANT USAGE:
   A.   All hydrants erected by the town for the purpose of use in
extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be public hydrants; and no person,
other than members of the fire department, and then only for use and purpose of
such department, or persons specially authorized by the chief operator, and
then only in the exercise of the authority delegated by the chief operator,
shall open any of such hydrants, or attempt to draw water therefrom, or in any
manner interfere therewith. No person authorized to open fire hydrants shall
delegate his authority to another.
   B.   All abandoned, disconnected and/or nonserviceable hydrants shall be
removed from public view and shall not be visible from the street, alleyway,
sidewalk or public right of way. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-11: INDIVIDUAL FIRE MAINS:
If proprietors of lumberyards, manufactories, halls, stores, elevators,
warehouses, hotels or public buildings, regular consumers of water from the
water system, located within the corporate limits of the town, wish to lay
large pipes with hydrants and hose couplings to be used only in case of fire,
they may apply to the town for a connection to the street main. This connection
will be made by the town at the applicant's expense as a tap fee. The water
use, as long as it is exclusively for fire control, shall be free of charge and
may not be metered at the discretion of the town. Curb stops or gate valves
will control shutoff. The hydrants shall be exercised and flushed on the same
schedule and frequency of town hydrants and at the direction of the chief
operator or his designee. The owner shall be responsible for repair and
maintenance and shall furnish all parts and the town shall install said parts
as time and manpower permit. The town and chief operator retain the right to
inspect the water use at any point in time. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-12: BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
The town will provide backflow prevention for all residential users. All
commercial and industrial users are responsible for furnishing and installing
adequate backflow prevention in accordance with Wyoming department of
environmental quality, water quality rules and regulations. The chief operator
will inspect the backflow device prior to allowing a water system connection to
the user. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-13: SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHER CONSUMERS:
No consumer shall supply water to other consumers from his premises, except as
approved by town council. After water has been introduced into any building or
upon any premises, no person shall employ a plumber or permit another person to
make a tap or connection with the service pipes upon the premises for
alteration, extension or attachment, without the permission of the chief
operator or his designee. It shall be unlawful for any person to take or
utilize water upon his premises unless a water permit has been obtained
therefor. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-14: USE OF PRIVATE WELLS:
No consumer, taking water service from the town system, shall connect his
system to a private well or any other water source of any kind. No cross
connections may be made into any part of the potable water system under any
conditions. No consumer, taking water service from the town, shall drill and/or
complete a well without consent from the town or town council. (Ord. 179, 10-5-
2010)
7-1-15: STOCK TANKS AND TREE SPRAYERS:
All stock tank and tree spraying connections to a potable water system must
meet all current federal and state requirements, must be equipped with an air
gap and must be approved in advance by the chief operator or his designee.
(Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-16: SHORTAGES:
In the event of shortages or loss of pressure, the town council is authorized
to restrict or limit uses allowed, means of water delivery, quantities that may
be used, and hours of use and impose such other restrictions and limitations as
may be necessary. In the event the total water supply shall be insufficient to
meet all of the needs of the users, the town may prorate water available among
the various users on such basis as is deemed equitable by the town, and may
also prescribe a schedule of hours covering the use of water for irrigation
purposes, or prohibit the use of water for irrigation purposes if at any time
the total water supply or available artesian pressure shall be insufficient to
meet all of the needs of the participating users for domestic, livestock,
irrigation and other purposes. The order of priority of uses shall be: a) fire
suppression; b) domestic use; c) commercial sale; d) livestock; e) industrial;
f) irrigation; and g) other purposes. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-17: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Every consumer using the water system of this town shall permit the chief
operator or his designee to enter his premises or buildings when requested to
examine the pipes and fixtures, the manner in which the water is used, and must
at all times, frankly and without concealment, answer all questions relative to
consumption of water, and the nature of all connections. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-18: REFUSAL OF SERVICE OR MODIFICATION OF STANDARD SERVICE:
The town may decline to serve any customer until he has complied with the state
regulations governing water service and all pertinent rules and regulations of
the municipal water system. The town may decline to serve, increase the size of
the service connection or provide water at a given pressure at a given point of
use if, in the opinion of the chief operator or his designee, the town does not
have adequate facilities or system pressure to accommodate the service applied
or if the desired service is of a character likely to unfavorably affect
service to other customers. The town may refuse to service a customer, if in
its opinion, the customer's plumbing or equipment is such that satisfactory
service cannot be given or if in the town's opinion, the provision of service
to that customer may not be in the best interests of the town. All commercial
and industrial users shall be required to pay for backflow prevention. (Ord.
179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-19: EXTENSIONS BEYOND TOWN LIMITS:
   A.   The owner of land requesting the extension of water service beyond the
town corporate limits shall request the service in writing. The request shall
include the following information:
      1.   Location and size of land to which water is to be extended.
      2.   Description of the proposed development.
      3.   Estimated average water demand and low and high use limits.
      4.   Definition of water use and identification of any other water
sources that may be appurtenant to that property.
   B.   Further, the owner of land requesting the extension of water service
beyond the town corporate limits shall agree to: 1) water delivery with no
guarantee of pressure; 2) not drill a well in an aquifer that might impact the
town wells; and 3) provide the town information related to all wells, domestic
or agricultural, on the owner's property. All new wells shall be subject to
town's prior approval.
   C.   The extension request shall be reviewed by the town council and, upon
its approval of said request, the owner may proceed with the improvements;
provided, that all other ordinance requirements are met and there is no expense
to the town. The only allowable use of water under this section is for domestic
purposes. The town is responsible for the quality of the water but does not
guarantee the quantity or the pressure of water. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-20: PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM EXPENSES:
The cost of all water mains constructed or extended by the town, or by a
contractor for the town, within the corporate limits of the town shall, to the
extent of special benefits to lands and lots abutting upon any street, avenue
or alley, or part thereof, within which the main or lateral has been
constructed, be assessed to such abutting lands and lots; provided, water mains
of the town may, with the consent of the town council, be extended by and at
the expense of an individual, firm or corporation for the purpose of providing
water service to an area within the corporate limits of the town, or an area
outside of and not subject at that time to being brought within the corporate
limits of the town either by voluntary action of the owner or by annexation.
(Ord. 179, 10-5-2010)
7-1-21: RATES AND CHARGES FOR WATER USAGE:
   A.   Unless service is terminated, all metered structures/users shall be
assessed a monthly water rate, for each meter, to recover costs of operations,
maintenance of systems, debt service and replacement fund for water facilities.
   B.   The water charge shall be in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and as per the following rate schedule:
Category Water Charge Monthly Base Allowance (Gallons)
Category            Water Charge          Monthly Base Allowance (Gallons)
Residential - 3/4"  $ 30.00               12,000
Residential - 1"    34.00                 12,000
Business - 3/4"     34.00                 12,000
Business - 1"       61.00                 29,000
Business - 2"       104.00                52,000
Out of town - 3/4"  35.00                 12,000
Out of town - 1"    40.00                 12,000
Out of town - 11/2" 60.00                 21,000
School              $5,228.00 (12 months) 180,000
Apartment buildings $30.00/month/unit     12,000/unit
Motel               $ 66.00               31,000
County shop         106.00                12,000
 
   C.   In addition to the monthly base rate, the customer shall be charged for
the quantity of water used during the billing period which exceeds the amount
of the base allowance, which commodity charge shall be at the rate of twenty
five cents ($0.25) per one thousand (1,000) gallons or less per month.
   D.   All rates for water shall be due and payable on or before the tenth day
of the month following the thirty (30) day billing cycle. If any customer fails
to pay the bill by the due date, the customer will be mailed up to two (2) past
due notices. The first past due notice will state that the customer will have
seven (7) days from the date on the notice to pay the bill in full. A second
and final past due notice will be sent seven (7) days from the date of the
first past due notice. The customer has seven (7) days from the date on the
second and final notice to pay the bill in full, plus an additional late fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) or customer service will be shut off. If a customer
service is shut off, there will an additional fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) to
have the water turned back on. (Ord. 188, 5-14-2013)
7-1-22: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter will be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, or as set by the town council by resolution for each
offense, plus court costs. (Ord. 179, 10-5-2010; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 185, 4-2-
2013; Ord. 187, 5-14-2013; Ord. 188, 5-14-2013)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Connection Permit
7-2-2: Property Owner Permit Fee
7-2-3: Licensed Plumbers Required
7-2-4: Application For Service
7-2-5: Service And Assessment Charges
7-2-6: Rates For Sewer Usage
7-2-7: Cost Responsibility Of Property Owner
7-2-8: Pipes And Other Materials For Connections
7-2-9: Inspections Prior To Covering
7-2-10: Restoration After Excavation
7-2-11: Wash Rack Businesses
7-2-12: Noncompliant Connections Declared Nuisance
7-2-13: Records Maintained
7-2-14: Prohibited Acts And Activities
7-2-15: Interceptor Requirements
7-2-16: Penalty
7-2-1: CONNECTION PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to tap or make connection with
any main or district sewer installed in the Town without first obtaining a
permit for the same from the Town Clerk-Treasurer as hereinafter provided.
(1986 Code § 19-101)
7-2-2: PROPERTY OWNER PERMIT FEE:
Permits for such connecting sewers shall be issued to the owner of the property
by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall collect from each owner or applicant the
sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall be deemed to be and shall be
received in full payment for the work of inspection and tap-on fees of the work
in connection with the construction of said connecting sewer by the Sewer
Commissioner, who shall be appointed by the Mayor and Town Council. (Ord. 134,
10-4-1993)
7-2-3: LICENSED PLUMBERS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or corporation, either as owner,
contractor or laborer, who are not licensed plumbers, to do or perform any
sewer connection or to construct any private sewer for the purpose of
connecting with the main or any district sewer in the Town. (1986 Code § 19-
102; amd. 2012 Code)
7-2-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Every person desiring a sewer hookup for domestic purposes must make
application therefor to the Town upon forms to be furnished by the Town for
that purpose. The application must state fully and truly for what purpose and
all uses to which the sewer is to be supplied, and no different or additional
uses will be allowed, except by permission and when so supplied shall be paid
by the person using the service pipes. In the event of an industrial or
commercial application, which shall include but is not limited to a facility
that serves more than ten (10) unrelated persons or that generates waste water
other than domestic sewage, the applicant must provide the Town with a complete
description of the anticipated volumes and waste characterization and any
additional information the Town shall request. (Ord. 213, 3-6-2018)
7-2-5: SERVICE AND ASSESSMENT CHARGES:
   A.   Payment Of Service Charges: Service charges must be paid when and if
they are required by the Town. (1986 Code § 19-202)
   B.   Fees In Addition To Assessment Charge: The tap-on fees and service
charges will be in addition to the assessment charge. (1986 Code § 19-203)
7-2-6: RATES FOR SEWER USAGE:
   A.   Contract For Usage: The provisions of this section fixing the rate of
usage of sewer service within the Town shall be considered a contract with
every person, corporation or association which has service taps on the sewer
system of the Town.
   B.   Rates:
      1.   The property owner will be held responsible for all sewer usage
fees. All sewer usage fees are payable monthly in advance to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer and the Clerk-Treasurer is prohibited from extending credit to
anyone. The charge for sewer furnished by the Town to any person, corporation
or association inside and outside the corporate limits of the Town shall be as
follows:
 
Type Of Service Amount
Residential     $ 30.00 per month
Business sewer  36.00 per month
Motel sewer     112.50 per month
School sewer    244.00 per month
RV park sewer   133.50 per month
 
      2.   The Town will review the user charge system not less often than
every two (2) years and will revise the system as necessary to assure equity of
the system and to assure that sufficient funds will be collected from the
system to adequately operate and maintain the waste treatment works. Rates
shall be established for each type of sewer service to take into consideration
usage, volume, character and additional treatment requirements of the waste.
   C.   Payment Of Fees: Payment of sewer usage fees shall be made to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer at the Town Hall located in Ten Sleep, Wyoming. Said payments
shall be made monthly in advance. (Ord. 203, 7-10-2017; amd. Ord. 235, 7-10-
2023)
7-2-7: COST RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
All costs of materials and labor for connecting to the sewer main and from the
main line to the owner's house are the responsibility of said property owner.
(1986 Code § 19-104)
7-2-8: PIPES AND OTHER MATERIALS FOR CONNECTIONS:
The pipe used in making any such sewer connections as herein described shall be
four inches (4") or more in diameter, and of standard sewer pipe or cast iron
pipe. In making the tap or connections into the Y branch of the sewer line, an
increaser of proper dimensions shall be used; and all joints shall be packed
with oakum and properly cemented. All such connecting sewers shall be laid to
uniform grade and alignment. Any angles which may be necessary in the line
shall be of standard sewer pipe bends. Each bowl used in connection with said
connecting sewer shall be equipped with adequate flushing device to carry off
all matter deposited in such bowl. (1986 Code § 19-105)
7-2-9: INSPECTIONS PRIOR TO COVERING:
Whenever a connecting sewer shall be constructed as herein provided, the person
or persons constructing the same and making the connection shall leave the same
uncovered and open until the work shall be inspected and approved by the Sewer
Commissioner, and all connections so made shall be made in such a manner as the
Sewer Commissioner shall direct. (1986 Code § 19-106)
7-2-10: RESTORATION AFTER EXCAVATION:
In making any such connection, the surface of any street or alley shall be
restored to as good a condition as found before the excavation was made and any
existing improvements which may have been interfered with or injured in any way
shall be restored to as good a condition as they were in before such
interference or injury. No connections shall be constructed in such a manner as
to permit the entrance of surface drainage and suitable provisions shall be
made to prevent the entrance of mud or silt into any such connection. (1986
Code § 19-105; amd. 2012 Code)
7-2-11: WASH RACK BUSINESSES:
   A.   Sump Required To Prevent Entry Of Dirt, Grease: Any owner or operator
of any wash rack for the washing and cleaning of any automobile, truck or motor
vehicle within the Town shall provide the same with a proper sump, and any
refuse or waste material run from said sump into the sewer system of the Town
shall be siphoned from said sump in such a manner so that all grease, dirt and
refuse shall remain in the said sump and shall not be carried into the sewer
line of said Town. (1986 Code § 19-109)
   B.   Inspection Required: Any such sumps and siphons shall be inspected and
approved by the Sewer Commissioner and shall not be used until so inspected and
approved, and any connection or connections or siphon so installed shall not be
in any manner altered after such inspection without the approval of the Sewer
Commissioner. The sumps used in connection with such wash racks shall be kept
clean so that such siphon shall not become clogged, and shall be cleaned at
once upon request of the Sewer Commissioner. (1986 Code § 19-110)
   C.   Right Of Entry: The Mayor or the Sewer Commissioner, or any officer or
employee of the Town so authorized by either the Mayor or the Sewer
Commissioner, shall have the right to enter upon any premises where such a wash
rack is being maintained at any reasonable hour of the day to inspect the same,
and to ascertain if the provisions of this section are being violated. (1986
Code § 19-111)
7-2-12: NONCOMPLIANT CONNECTIONS DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any connecting sewer which shall be built or constructed contrary to the
requirements and provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a nuisance and
shall be abated in the manner required by law, and such sewer shall be
constructed or such connection made in the manner required by this chapter.
(1986 Code § 19-107)
7-2-13: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a book in which shall be entered a record
of all sewer permits issued, the name of the applicant and to whom issued, the
date of the application and of the permit, the name of the owner of the lot or
lots, or parcels of real property and the territory to be drained by the
proposed sewer. Such book shall be a public record and shall be open to the
public at all times. (1986 Code § 19-108)
7-2-14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Use Of Town Sewers For Irrigation Drainage: It shall be unlawful for
any person to tap or make connection or to use for irrigation drainage or any
other type of drainage, any sewer main or oxidation pond belonging to the Town,
without first obtaining permission and/or a permit, if a permit is required,
from the Town.
   B.   Connection To Surface Runoff Or Groundwater: No person shall make
connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer. (1986 Code § 19-301)
   C.   Unauthorized Dumping Into Lagoon: No person shall place, deposit or
dump any sewage or sewage materials directly into the Town sewage lagoon, or
into any part of the collection lines of the Town sewer system, other than by
proper tap-ons. (1986 Code § 19-401)
   D.   Privy, Privy Vaults, Cesspools, Septic Tanks, Etc.:
      1.   Public Nuisance: Every privy or privy vault, cesspool, septic tank
and every private sewer or drain serving property located within the boundary
lines of the Town Sanitary Sewer District 1, as amended, is a public nuisance.
(1986 Code § 19-501)
      2.   Guilty Of Public Nuisance: Any person, firm or corporation
maintaining, constructing or using a privy or privy vault, cesspool, septic
tank and every private sewer or drain serving property located within said
sewer district, as provided in subsection D1 of this section after July 1,
1962, shall be deemed guilty of creating and maintaining a public nuisance.
(1986 Code § 19-502)
7-2-15: INTERCEPTOR REQUIREMENTS:
Grease interceptors, oil separators and sand interceptors shall be provided or
modified when the Town determines it is necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excess amounts or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients within ninety (90) days of written
notice from the Town. Modifications to existing interceptors may be required
when violations of this Code exist. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Town and shall be located as to be easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. In the maintenance of these interceptors, the
owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate
means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and
means of disposal, which are subject to review by the Town or its
representative. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by a licensed waste
disposal firm. (Ord. 214, 3-6-2018)
7-2-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 214, 3-6-2018)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: International Residential Code
8-1-2: International Existing Building Code
8-1-3: International Mechanical Code
8-1-4: International Fuel Gas Code
8-1-5: International Plumbing Code
8-1-1: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: The international residential code, 2012 edition,
published by the International Code Council is hereby adopted as if fully set
out in this section, and one copy is on file in the city hall for examination
by the public.
   B.   Amendments: Provisions of this section are published with the following
amendments and exclusions:
Section R101.1 Title - insert "Town of Ten Sleep".
Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Sub-section Building - exclude "2.
Fences not over 7 feet (2134 mm) high."
Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Sub-section Building - exclude "7.
Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches (610 mm) deep."
Replace with "7. Any swimming pool not designed to be a permanent structure."
Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Sub-section Building - add "11. The
installation of smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors in existing
dwellings that are not being altered or remodeled on the interior."
Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Sub-section Building: - add "12.
Installation of windows and doors in existing structures that do not involve
structural changes and/or the remodel of spaces that create bedrooms."
Section R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Sub-section Building: add - "13.
Installation of siding, veneers, EIFS systems, soffit and fascia on existing
structures provided that no structural changes are performed."
Section R301.2(1) insert the following table:
 
                               Subject To Damage From               Ice Barrier
Ground5    Wind Speed Seismic                                Winter Underlay-
Snow Load  (mph)      Design   Weathering Frost Line Termite Design ment
(psf)                 Category            Depth              Temp   Required

                      Site
30         90 (3 sec) specific Severe     4'0"       n/a     -8°   Yes
                      IBC 1613
 
 
Flood Hazards Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
Site specific 2558               44.4°F
 
Section R312.21 Window Sills. Replace the 72" dimension with a 120" dimension.
Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Exclude entirely.
Section R314.3.1 Alterations, Repairs, And Additions - after the word "permit"
add the following ". . . and exceed fifty (50) percent of the area of the
dwelling unit. . ."
Section R315.3 Where Required In Existing Dwellings - after the word "permit"
add the following ". . . and exceed fifty (50) percent of the area of the
dwelling unit . . ."
Section 316.5.3 Attics - add the following at the end of section: "Exception:
Foam plastics used for insulation and venting purposes at rafter and truss
tails over exterior wall are exempt from the requirements of this section."
Section 316.5.4 Crawl Spaces - add the following at the end of section:
"Exception: Foam plastics used for insulation and venting purposes at rim
joists over exterior foundation walls and crawl space insulated concrete forms
are exempt from the requirements of this section."
Section R501.3 Fire Protection Of Floors - exclude section entirely.
Provisions of part IV - Energy Conservation (chapter 11) excluded entirely.
Provisions of part V - Mechanical (chapters 12 through 23), part VI - Fuel Gas
(chapter 24), part VII - Plumbing (chapters 25 through 33) but only to the
extent that the provisions and references relate directly to fire and life
safety, structural integrity and the protection thereof, and more specifically
excluding all references to energy conservation and sustainability. The
adoption of these chapters shall include the following amendments and
exclusions:
Section M1411.6 Locking Access Port Caps - exclude entire section.
Section P2503.5.1 Rough Plumbing. Exclude ". . . for piping systems other than
plastic,".
Section P2603.5.1 Sewer Depth. Insert the number "12" both places.
Portions of part VIII - Electrical (chapters 34 through 43) are excluded
entirely.
The provisions of part IX - Referenced Standards (chapter 44) are adopted but
only to the extent that the references relate directly to fire and life safety,
structural integrity and the protection thereof, and more specifically
excluding all references to energy conservation and sustainability.
The provisions of the following appendices are adopted but only to the extent
that the provisions and references relate directly to fire and life safety,
structural integrity and the protection thereof, and more specifically
excluding all references to entry conservation and sustainability:
Appendix A - Sizing And Capacities Of Gas Piping.
Appendix B - Sizing Of Venting Systems Serving Appliances.
Appendix C - Exit Terminals Of Mechanical Draft And Direct-Vent Systems.
Appendix E - Manufactured Housing Used As Dwellings.
Appendix G - Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs.
Appendix J - Existing Buildings And Structures.
Section AJ102.3 Smoke Detectors - exclude section entirely and replace with:
"Smoke detectors shall be provided as required by R314.3.1 but only for
alterations exceeding fifty (50) percent of the area of the dwelling unit".
Appendix P - Sizing Of Water Piping Systems.
   C.   Skirting Around Manufactured Homes:
      1.   The international residential code (IRC), appendix E, manufactured
housing used as dwelling definition of "manufactured home", is incorporated in
this subsection by this reference as if fully detailed herein.
      2.   The international residential code section AE503.1 is incorporated
in this subsection by this reference as if fully detailed herein.
      3.   All manufactured homes in the town shall be skirted around its
entire perimeter, and water pipes shall be wrapped with heat tapes or skirting
shall be insulated to an "R" factor of nine (9). Minimum acceptable skirting
requirements shall consist of masonry, masonite, aluminum, wood or other
comparable material approved by the building inspector (code administrator).
Masonry shall be installed by customary methods with suitable mortar used as
the adhesive agent. Masonite, wood and aluminum skirting shall be installed as
follows:
         a.   A top and bottom rail consisting of one inch by two inch (1" x
2") wood stringer. The top rail shall be attached with bolts and screws to the
manufactured home bottom. The bottom rail shall be attached to ground support
stakes, which shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") in length and spaced at
four foot (4') maximum spacing.
         b.   Vertical one inch by two inch (1" x 2") wood stringers or
equivalent shall be attached to the top and bottom rails by means of bolts or
screws. Vertical stringers will be installed at a minimum of every six feet
(6').
         c.   The skirting material shall be firmly fastened to the top and
bottom rails as well as the vertical stringers by means of bolts or screws.
      4.   Upon written notice of any violation of this subsection, the owner
or occupier of the manufactured home in violation shall have thirty (30) days
to comply. If the manufactured home is not in compliance by the expiration of
thirty (30) days, said failure to comply shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, any violator, owner or occupier shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 195, 6-2-2015)
8-1-2: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: The international existing building code, 2012 edition,
published by the International Code Council is hereby adopted as if fully set
out in this section, and one copy is on file in the city hall for examination
by the public.
   B.   Amendments: Provisions of this section are published with the following
amendments and exclusions:
Section 101.1 Title - insert "Town of Ten Sleep".
Section 112 Board Of Appeals - Exclude entire section.
Provisions of chapters 2 through 16, but only to the extent that the provisions
and references relate directly to fire and life safety, structural integrity
and the protection thereof, and more specifically excluding all references to
energy conservation and sustainability. The adoption of these chapters shall
include the following amendments and exclusions:
Section 1401.2 - insert "January 01, 2012".
   (Ord. 195, 6-2-2015)
8-1-3: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: The international mechanical code, 2012 edition,
published by the International Code Council is hereby adopted as if fully set
out in this section, and one copy is on file in the city hall for examination
by the public.
   B.   Amendments: Provisions of this section are published with the following
amendments and exclusions:
Section 101.1 Title - insert "Town of Ten Sleep".
Section 106.5.2 Fee Schedule - exclude entire section.
Section 106.5.3 Fee Refunds - insert "seventy-five (75)" in item #2 and item
#3.
Section 108.4 Violation Penalties - exclude entire section.
Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders - exclude ". . . liable for a fine of not less
than [amount] dollars or more than [amount] dollars." and replace with ". . .
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). When not otherwise specified, each continuing day of
work after being served shall constitute a separate offense."
Section 109 Means Of Appeal - exclude entire section.
Section 1101.10 Locking Access Port Caps - exclude entire section.
Provisions of chapters 2 through 15, but only to the extent that the provisions
and references relate directly to fire and life safety, structural integrity
and the protection thereof, and more specifically excluding all references to
energy conservation and sustainability. The adoption of these chapters shall
include the following amendments and exclusions:
Reserved.
The provisions of the following appendices are adopted but only to the extent
that the provisions and references relate directly to fire and life safety,
structural integrity and the protection thereof, and more specifically
excluding all references to energy and conservation and sustainability:
Appendix A - Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs.
   (Ord. 195, 6-2-2015)
8-1-4: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: The international fuel gas code, 2012 edition, published
by the International Code Council is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this
section, and one copy is on file in the city hall for examination by the
public.
   B.   Amendments: Provisions of this section are published with the following
amendments and exclusions:
Section 101.1 Title - insert "Town of Ten Sleep".
Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule - exclude entire section.
Section 106.6.3 Fee Refunds - insert "seventy-five (75)" in item #2 and item
#3.
Section 108.4 Violation Penalties - exclude entire section.
Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders - exclude ". . . liable for a fine of not less
than [amount] dollars or more than [amount] dollars." and replace with ". . .
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). When not otherwise specified, each continuing day of
work after being served shall constitute a separate offense."
Section 109 Means Of Appeal - exclude entire section.
Provisions of chapters 2 through 8, but only to the extent that the provisions
and references relate directly to fire and life safety, structural integrity
and protection thereof, and more specifically excluding all references to
energy conservation and sustainability. The adoption of these chapters shall
include the following amendments and exclusions:
Reserved.
The provisions of the following appendices are adopted but only to the extent
that the provisions and references relate directly to fire and life safety,
structural integrity and the protection thereof, and more specifically
excluding all references to energy and conservation and sustainability:
Appendix A - Sizing And Capacities Of Gas Piping.
Appendix B - Sizing Of Venting Systems Serving Appliances Equipped With Draft
Hoods, Category I Appliances And Appliances Listed For Use With Type B Vents.
Appendix C - Exit Terminals Of Mechanical Draft And Direct-Vent Venting
Systems.
   (Ord. 195, 6-2-2015)
8-1-5: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: The international plumbing code, 2012 edition, published
by the International Code Council is hereby adopted as if fully set out in this
section, and one copy is on file in the city hall for examination by the
public.
   B.   Amendments: Provisions of this section are published with the following
amendments and exclusions:
Section 101 Title - insert "Town of Ten Sleep".
Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule - exclude entire section.
Section 106.6.3 Fee Refunds - insert "seventy-five (75)" in item #2 and item
#3.
Section 108.4 Violation Penalties - exclude entire section.
Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders - exclude ". . . liable for a fine of not less
than [amount] dollars or more than [amount] dollars." and replace with ". . .
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). When not otherwise specified, each continuing day of
work after being served shall constitute a separate offense."
Section 109 Means Of Appeal - exclude entire section.
Provisions of chapters 2 through 14, but only to the extent that the provisions
and references relate directly to fire and life safety, structural integrity
and the protection thereof, and more specifically excluding all references to
energy and conservation and sustainability:
The adoption of these chapters shall include the following amendments and
exclusions:
Section 305.4.1 Sewer Depth - insert the number "12" both places.
Section 312 Required Tests. Exclude ". . . for piping systems other than
plastic,".
   (Ord. 195, 6-2-2015)
TITLE 9
DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose
9-1-2: Jurisdiction
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-4: Burden Of Proof
9-1-5: Falsification Of Information
9-1-6: Conflicts Of Requirements
9-1-7: Amendments
9-1-8: Waiver Of Requirements
9-1-9: Penalty
9-1-1: PURPOSE:
In order to promote the general health, safety, comfort and welfare of the
citizens of the town by encouraging a slow growth rate, which will harmonize
with the existing town and maintain its clean rural environment in accordance
with the master plan, the town council enacts this title by requiring that all
development proposals be reviewed by the town council and proceeding only upon
the granting of a compliance permit by the council. (1986 Code § 4-101; amd.
2012 Code)
9-1-2: JURISDICTION:
The mayor and town council are hereby vested with jurisdiction in all matters
pertaining to land use zoning for the purpose of protecting the health, comfort
and general prosperity of the town within the corporate limits. (Ord. 159, 4-6-
2004; amd. 2012 Code)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms and definitions shall be observed, unless the town council
or the context clearly requires otherwise:
COMMERCIAL: All developments for the purposes of warehousing, wholesaling,
retailing, providing business, personal services or professional services, etc.
COMPLIANCE PERMIT: A permit issued by the town council granting procedure to a
given development proposal.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction on a site, including signs, occupancy of a site,
or change of land use on a site.
INDUSTRIAL: All developments for the purposes of mining, manufacturing or
processing materials.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled movable dwelling over thirty two feet (32') in
length and more than eight feet (8') in width, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis, comprised of frame and wheels.
MOBILE HOME COURT: An area occupied by three (3) or more mobile homes,
recreational vehicles, mobile home spaces or recreational vehicle spaces. A
mobile home court is under one ownership, distinguishing it from a subdivision
in which lots are sold for mobile home placement.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: All modular or conventional multiple-family dwellings
designed for the occupancy of two (2) or more families.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Requirements developed to implement a given policy
within the master plan. These requirements must be met by the applicant in
order to be granted a compliance permit.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): Generally used to refer to an enclosed piece of
equipment dually used as both a vehicle and a temporary travel home. Also
referred to as motor homes and motor caravans.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: All mobile, modular or conventional single dwellings
designed for occupancy by a single family.
SITE: A parcel of land subdivided or unsubdivided.
SKETCH PLAN: A means of conveying a preliminary plan for development presented
by the applicant to the town council, including sufficient information for
knowledgeable discussion during the review process. Requirements for the sketch
plan will vary between development proposals.
SUBDIVISION: A division of a unit of land into three (3) or more lots, plots,
units, sites, or other divisions of land for the immediate or future purpose of
sale, building development or redevelopment for residential, recreational,
industrial, commercial or public uses. The word "subdivide" or any derivative
thereof, shall have reference to the term subdivision.
URBAN LIMIT LINE: A boundary line delineating the area outside which the town
can not feasibly extend town services and therefor shall not extend town
services. (1986 Code § 4-201; amd. Ord. 175, 5-5-2009)
9-1-4: BURDEN OF PROOF:
Burden of proof shall be assigned to the applicant in all instances concerning
this title. (1986 Code § 4-303)
9-1-5: FALSIFICATION OF INFORMATION:
Any person who intentionally falsifies or distorts information required by this
title shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
9-1-9 of this chapter. (1986 Code § 4-302)
9-1-6: CONFLICTS OF REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever the requirements of this title conflict with the requirements of any
other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most
restrictive or that imposing higher standards shall govern. (1986 Code § 4-305)
9-1-7: AMENDMENTS:
This title may be amended in accordance with the Wyoming constitution. (1986
Code § 4-306; amd. 2012 Code)
9-1-8: WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS:
The town council may waive at its discretion a requirement which poses an undue
hardship on an applicant. (1986 Code § 4-307)
9-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person who wilfully violates any provision of this title shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (1986 Code § 4-301; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
COMPLIANCE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Applicability
9-2-2: Jurisdiction
9-2-3: Application For Permit
9-2-4: Fees For Permit
9-2-5: Granting Of Permit
9-2-6: Expiration
9-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
A compliance permit is necessary for any development proposal. (1986 Code § 4-
401)
9-2-2: JURISDICTION:
The town council will review all development proposals and may grant compliance
permits within the town limits and outside the town to a limit indicated in the
master plan for the fringe area which may be adopted jointly by the town and
Washakie County. (1986 Code § 4-402)
9-2-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Required; Time Of Application: Application shall be made to the town
council prior to the regularly monthly town council meeting in order to be
considered at the meeting. Application must be made prior to the physical
layout or construction on the site. (1986 Code § 4-403)
   B.   Form Of Application: Instruction for application shall be made
available by the town clerk-treasurer. All information must be provided by the
applicant before consideration will begin by the council. (1986 Code § 4-404)
9-2-4: FEES FOR PERMIT:
The following fee schedule is adopted to accompany each compliance permit:
 
Industrial development $50.00
Commercial development 25.00
Subdivision, per lot   10.00
Mobile home court      25.00
Single-family dwelling 10.00
Accessory buildings    10.00
 
(1986 Code § 4-308)
9-2-5: GRANTING OF PERMIT:
A compliance permit shall be granted only upon thorough review by the town
council. (1986 Code § 4-406)
9-2-6: EXPIRATION:
A permit is said to be expired if physical construction has not begun one year
after the date granted. Application would again be necessary before proceeding.
(1986 Code § 4-405)
CHAPTER 3
REVIEW PROCEDURE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Review Commencement
9-3-2: Appearance Of Applicant
9-3-3: Review Time
9-3-4: Site Inspection
9-3-5: Public Hearing
9-3-6: Comments And Additional Information
9-3-7: Evaluation And Action On Application
9-3-1: REVIEW COMMENCEMENT:
Review of the application by the town council shall begin at the first regular
town council meeting following submission of a completed application when
notice has been given ten (10) days prior to the meeting. (1986 Code § 4-501)
9-3-2: APPEARANCE OF APPLICANT:
The applicant or representative must be present during all phases of the review
process for the review to proceed. (1986 Code § 4-502)
9-3-3: REVIEW TIME:
The council will act on the application within ninety (90) days after
acceptance of a completed application. Failure to act within that time period
constitutes approval of the application unless an extension of time has been
mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the town council, or when the
applicant or representative has failed to appear during scheduled reviews.
(1986 Code § 4-503)
9-3-4: SITE INSPECTION:
After notice of an application has been given, the town council may, if
desired, visit the proposed site accompanied by technical advisors, if deemed
necessary, to inspect the site suitability for the proposed development
activity. (1986 Code § 4-504)
9-3-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
If a proposed activity is of a scope that in the town council judgment should
be reviewed by the citizenry of the town or the surrounding area prior to
approval of an application, a public hearing may be arranged. Notice of the
hearing will be announced twice in the local newspaper during the ten (10) days
prior to the hearing. The notice shall be prepared by the town council and
shall include the date, time, location, purpose of the hearing and nature of
the application. The cost of the notice to be paid by the applicant. (1986 Code
§ 4-505)
9-3-6: COMMENTS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
If so desired, the town council may request comment or technical advice from
appropriate agencies, or request additional information from the applicant
after initial consideration prior to acting upon the application. (1986 Code §
4-506)
9-3-7: EVALUATION AND ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Evaluation: All applications shall conform to the master plan for the
town and shall be evaluated for adequacy of facilities and efficient use of
resources where maintenance or services are to be provided by the town. Effects
of the proposed activity on all town services and the physical and social
environment of the town shall be considered during review. All proposed
development activities shall conform to all performance standards for the given
activity, unless waived by the council.
   B.   Action On Application: An application may be acted upon in the
following ways:
      1.   Approval: Followed by the granting of compliance permit.
      2.   Conditional Approval: Permit granted with conditions attached by
town council. (1986 Code § 4-507)
      3.   Rejection: Rejection of application accompanied by written reasons
for the action taken. Failure to provide written reasons for rejection to the
applicant within ten (10) days of the action nullifies the action. (1986 Code §
4-507; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Commercial Development
9-4-2: Industrial Development
9-4-3: Subdivisions
9-4-4: Single-Family Residences
9-4-5: Multiple-Family Dwellings
9-4-6: Mobile Home Courts
9-4-7: Accessory Buildings
9-4-8: Signs
9-4-1: COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT:
In order to check unnecessary sprawl and encroachment on agricultural land, as
well as prevent an undue strain on available resources and the taxpayer's
dollar, all commercial development shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Effects On Town Systems And Services: No commercial development will be
allowed without a thorough analysis of the effects of that development on the
town water supply and distribution system, sewage collection and treatment,
fire protection and streets. To accomplish this, the following information
should be provided by the applicant:
      1.   An estimate of the amount of water required by the development on a
daily basis;
      2.   An estimate of the amount and type of sewage effluent to be
generated daily;
      3.   An estimate of the amount and type of solid waste to be generated
daily;
      4.   A letter from the fire chief stating that the present fire
protection service can adequately protect the proposed development.
   B.   Site Location: All commercial development shall be located on Main
Street or in an orderly manner to the east of the town. A waiver will be
granted only if sufficient evidence can be shown to the council that no
adequate site is available in the above named area. An application may be
rejected on the basis of lack of an adequate site.
   C.   Location Outside Urban Limit Line: All commercial developments located
outside the urban limit line shall be provided with an individual water supply,
water distribution and sewage disposal system separate from the town
facilities. Approval of the water and sewage systems by the department of
environmental quality must be presented.
   D.   Cost Of Expansions Or Upgrades: The applicant shall bear the full cost
of any extension, expansion or upgrading of town facilities, including streets,
necessitated to accommodate the development.
   E.   Connection To Water, Sewer Required: All commercial developments inside
the urban limit line must be connected to town water and sewer.
   F.   Sewer Pretreatment: The council may require pretreatment of a
commercial development's effluent before entering the town sewage system.
   G.   Off Street Parking: Any commercial development not located on Main
Street must provide off street parking adequate for employees and customers.
   H.   Public Street Access: Safe access to public streets must be provided at
all commercial developments.
   I.   Livestock Prohibited: No commercial developments shall be allowed
inside the town limits which houses or sells livestock.
   J.   Setbacks: All structures of extensions or structures shall be at least
ten feet (10') from all streets and three feet (3') from all property lines of
alleyways. A distance of fifteen feet (15') from property lines is requested if
the adjacent lot is solely residential.
   K.   Private Roads: Any street extension not indicated in the master plan
from a commercial development to an existing public street shall be considered
a private road and shall be maintained by the applicant. (1986 Code § 4-601)
9-4-2: INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT:
To maintain the clean environment and rural lifestyle of the town, all
industrial developments must conform to the following standards:
   A.   Effects On Town Systems And Services: No industrial development will be
allowed without a thorough analysis of the effects of that development on the
town water supply and distribution system, sewage collection and treatment,
fire protection and streets. To accomplish this, the following information
shall be provided by the applicant:
      1.   An estimate on the amount of water required by the development on a
daily basis;
      2.   An estimate of the amount and type of sewage effluent to be
generated daily;
      3.   An estimate of the number of employees, including an estimate of the
number who will reside in the town;
      4.   A letter from the fire chief stating that the present firefighting
protection service can adequately protect the proposed development;
      5.   An estimate of the amount and type of solid waste to be generated
daily.
   B.   Location Outside Urban Limit Line: All industrial developments located
outside the urban limit line shall be provided with an individual water supply,
water distribution system, sewage disposal and collection system and solid
waste disposal separate from the town facilities. Approval of the water and
sewage systems by the department of environmental quality must be presented.
   C.   Connection To Water, Sewer Required: All industrial developments
located inside the urban limit line shall connect to the town water and sewage
system. An application may be rejected if the town facilities are not adequate
to serve the development.
   D.   Sewer Pretreatment: The council may require pretreatment of sewage
effluent produced by an industrial development before entering the town sewage
system.
   E.   Air Quality: No industrial development which emits toxic products,
odors or particulate matters shall be located upwind from existing residences.
The council may exclude an industrial development on the basis of protecting
local air quality, even though Wyoming air quality standards are met.
   F.   Street Resurfacing: Industrial developments generating heavy truck
traffic on streets maintained by the town may be required to bear the full cost
of resurfacing whenever it is required.
   G.   Enclosures: Industrial developments may be required to enclose
unsightly or unsafe areas in the development area, shield glaring surfaces or
muffle noise. An application may be rejected on the basis of unreasonable
noise, glare, light or safety hazards.
   H.   Private Roads: Any street extension not indicated in the master plan
from an industrial development to an existing public street shall be considered
a private road and shall be maintained by the applicant. Exceptions may be made
to serve the best interests of the town.
   I.   Cost Of Expansions Or Upgrades: The applicant shall bear the full cost
of any extension, expansion or upgrading of town facilities, including streets,
necessitated to accommodate the development. (1986 Code § 4-602)
9-4-3: SUBDIVISIONS:
No subdivisions shall be allowed without a thorough analysis of their impact on
the town water supply and distribution system, sewage collection and treatment
system, fire protection and streets. Subdivisions shall also be evaluated on
their internal circulation and access system, stormwater drainage and street
maintenance costs, lot arrangement and layout, and their relationship to
natural conditions of soil type, drainage and hydrology, slopes, floodplains,
and other natural resources considerations.
   A.   Sketch Plan Required: To accomplish this, a subdivision will not be
approved without the submission of a sketch plan containing the following
information:
      1.   All existing and proposed roads, streets and alleys;
      2.   All existing waterways, drain courses and drainageways;
      3.   All existing and proposed sewage lines, water lines, utility lines
and easements;
      4.   All proposed lighting facilities;
      5.   Proposed lot lines, including dimensions;
      6.   All existing property lines and names of property owners of the
tract and abutting parcels;
      7.   Proposed land use for each lot or parcel of land;
      8.   All proposed easements for drainage and pedestrian walkways;
      9.   Written assurances from utility companies that easements will meet
the requirements of utility companies;
      10.   North point, map scale and date of submission.
   B.   Requirements For Approval: No subdivision will be approved until the
following factors have been satisfactorily provided for:
      1.   Access to streets or roads and access for utilities and services;
      2.   Off street parking;
      3.   Placement of structures to be erected;
      4.   Open space, pedestrian movement systems and maximization of scenic
values;
      5.   Local climatic conditions, especially snow and icing patterns;
      6.   Storm runoff and minimization of soil erosion during and after
construction;
      7.   Maintenance of streets and open space after construction;
      8.   Topographical features, slope of building sites not to exceed thirty
percent (30%);
      9.   Minimum disruption of irrigation and drainage system serving other
lands;
      10.   Solid waste disposal.
   C.   Outside Urban Limit Line: All subdivisions located outside the urban
limit line shall be provided with an individual water supply, water
distribution system, sewage disposal and collection system, and solid waste
disposal separate from the town facilities. Approval of the sewage and water
systems by the department of environmental quality must be provided.
   D.   Connection To Water, Sewer Required: No subdivision located inside the
urban limit line will be approved that is not connected to the town sewer and
water systems providing individual hookups to each dwelling site.
   E.   Rejection Based On Inadequate Facilities: A subdivision may be rejected
if the town sewage or water facilities are not adequate to serve the
subdivision.
   F.   Cost Of Expansions Or Upgrades: The applicant shall bear the full cost
of any extension, expansion or upgrading of town facilities.
   G.   Lot Size: No individual residential lot located within a subdivision
shall contain less than six thousand (6,000) square feet and be less than sixty
feet (60') wide.
   H.   Use Of Private Rights Of Way For Town Utilities: No town utilities
shall be provided on private rights of way.
   I.   Installation Of Underground Utilities: All underground utilities shall
be installed to the property line of each lot prior to street surfacing.
   J.   Terrain Of Roads, Streets: Roads or streets shall follow natural
terrain to the extent feasible and cuts and fills shall be minimized.
   K.   Access To Public Street; Private Roads: All subdivisions shall have
direct safe access to a public street. Any street extension not indicated in
the master plan from a subdivision to an existing public street shall be
considered a private road and shall be maintained by the applicant. Exception
may be made to serve the best interest of the town.
   L.   Individual Access To Public Thoroughfare Prohibited: No individual lot
within the subdivision shall have direct access solely to a public
thoroughfare.
   M.   Street Specifications: All streets will be graded, graveled and drained
to the specifications of the town council.
   N.   Grading Roads: All roads, streets and alleys shall be graded to the
full width of said roadway and all culverts, bridges and storm sewers shall be
constructed for the full width of the roadway.
   O.   Cul-De-Sacs, Dead End Streets: Cul-de-sacs and dead end streets shall
have a turning circle of at least seventy five feet (75') in diameter at their
end and shall be no longer than six hundred feet (600').
   P.   Streets Intersect At Right Angles: Streets shall intersect at right
angles whenever possible.
   Q.   Width Of Alley Right Of Way: When provided, an alley right of way shall
be twenty feet (20') in width.
   R.   Utilities Right Of Way Width: A utilities right of way of ten feet
(10') may be required on both sides of the street if not provided by an alley.
   S.   Lighting: All subdivisions must be lighted at night.
   T.   Final Plat: A final plat shall be submitted by the applicant which
reflects the recommendations of the council. The final plat shall conform to
the standards in chapter VII of the Washakie County subdivision regulations.
(1986 Code § 4-603)
9-4-4: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES:
All single-family dwellings shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Connection To Water, Sewer Required: Each dwelling unit shall have
individual service connections to the town water and sewer mains.
   B.   Setbacks: No dwelling, or any part thereof, or accessory building shall
be within three feet (3') of any property line or alleyway, or within ten feet
(10') of any public street.
   C.   Outside Urban Limit Line: All single-family dwellings located outside
the urban limit line must provide a water supply, water distribution and sewage
disposal systems separate from the town facilities. Approval of the sewage
system by the department of environmental quality shall be provided by the
applicant.
   D.   Cost Of Expansions Or Upgrades: The applicant shall bear the full cost
of any expansion or extension of town facilities or services, including
streets, necessitated by the development.
   E.   Private Roads: Any street extension not indicated in the master plan
from a single-family dwelling to an existing public street shall be considered
a private road and shall be maintained by the applicant. Exception may be made
to serve the best interest of the town. (1986 Code § 4-604)
   F.   Skirting Of Mobile Homes: Mobile home skirting shall be required as
provided in subsection
8-1-1C of this code. (1986 Code § 4-604; amd. 2012 Code)
9-4-5: MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
All multiple-family dwellings shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Evaluation Of Impact: All multiple-family dwellings shall be evaluated
for their impacts on the town water supply and distribution system, fire
protection and streets.
   B.   Outside Urban Limit Line: All multiple-family dwellings located outside
the urban limit line must provide a central water supply, water distribution
and sewage disposal systems separate from the town facilities. Approval of the
sewage and water systems by the department of environmental quality shall be
provided.
   C.   Cost Of Expansions Or Upgrades: The applicant shall bear the full costs
of any expansion of extensions of town facilities or services, including
streets, necessitated by the development.
   D.   Architectural Barriers Minimized: All multiple-family dwellings shall
be designed to minimize architectural barriers.
   E.   Setbacks: All multiple-family dwellings shall be located at least ten
feet (10') from the streets and at least three feet (3') from property lines or
alleyways.
   F.   Off Street Parking: All multiple-family dwellings shall provide
adequate all weather off street parking at a rate of two (2) spaces per
dwelling unit. The parking space shall be constructed to the same
specifications as the town streets. Such parking shall have adequate lighting
and safe access to a public street.
   G.   Open Space: Open space surrounding multiple dwelling shall be properly
landscaped and maintained by the applicant.
   H.   Private Roads: Any street extension not indicated in the master plan
from a multiple-family dwelling to an existing public street shall be
considered a private road and shall be maintained by the applicant. Exception
may be made to serve the best interest of the town.
   I.   Solid Waste Disposal: Arrangements for solid waste disposal and pick up
shall be made with tenants responsibility, if any, clearly identified. (1986
Code § 4-605)
9-4-6: MOBILE HOME COURTS:
All mobile home courts shall conform to the following standards:
   A.   Evaluation Of Impact: No mobile home court will be approved without a
thorough analysis of their impacts on the town water supply and distribution
system, sewage collection and treatment system, fire protection and streets.
Mobile home courts shall also be evaluated on their internal circulation and
access system, stormwater drainage and maintenance costs, lot arrangement and
layout, and their relationship to natural conditions of soil, type drainage and
hydrology, slope, floodplains, and other natural resource considerations.
   B.   Sketch Plan: To accomplish this, no mobile home courts will be approved
without the submission of a sketch plan showing the following information:
      1.   Total areas, in acres, to be used for mobile home court purposes;
      2.   Entrance and exit roadways, driveways and walkways, including
widths;
      3.   Location and size of mobile home lots;
      4.   Method and plan for drainage and stormwater;
      5.   Location of public and private service buildings;
      6.   Location, size and type of existing and proposed sewer and water
lines, including hydrants;
      7.   Method of storage, collection and disposal of garbage and other
refuse;
      8.   Plan for lighting;
      9.   All existing waterways, drain courses and drainageways;
      10.   All proposed easements for utilities;
      11.   Off street parking;
      12.   Total open space area, planned use and maintenance plan;
      13.   Slope and topographical features;
      14.   North point, map scale and date of submission.
   C.   Minimum Space, Width: Each mobile home space shall contain three
thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet "as a minimum", with a minimum width
of forty feet (40').
   D.   Water, Sewer Connection Required: All mobile home courts within the
urban unit line shall be connected to town water and sewer with individual
hookups provided for each unit. An application may be rejected if the town
facilities are not adequate to serve the development.
   E.   Outside Urban Limit Line: All mobile home courts outside the urban
limit line must be provided with a central water supply, water distribution
system, and sewage disposal and treatment, separate from the town facilities,
with individual hookups to the central sewage and water system provided for
each unit. Approval of the water and sewage systems by the department of
environmental quality must be provided.
   F.   Cost Of Expansions Or Upgrades: The applicant shall bear the full cost
of any extensions or expansions of town facilities, including streets,
necessitated to accommodate the development.
   G.   Setbacks: All mobile homes within a mobile home court shall be located
at least ten feet (10') from a street and at least twenty feet (20') from other
mobile homes. Auxiliary rooms, porches and canopies shall be considered as part
of the mobile home.
   H.   Road Surface: All roads shall be provided with a smooth, hard and dense
surface, which shall be constructed to the same specifications as town streets.
   I.   Parking: Each mobile home shall be provided with an on unit parking
space for two (2) automobiles. The parking space shall be paved to the same
specifications as the streets. On street parking shall not be permitted.
   J.   Access To Public Street: All mobile home courts shall have direct safe
access to a public street. Any street extension not indicated in the master
plan from a mobile home court to an existing public street shall be considered
a private road and shall be maintained by the applicant. Exception may be made
to serve the best interest of the town.
   K.   Foundation For Mobile Homes: The area of the mobile home stand shall be
improved to provide an adequate foundation for the placement of the mobile
home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding or rotation.
The mobile home stand shall not heave, shift or settle unevenly under the
weight of a mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration or
other forces working on the superstructure. The mobile home shall be provided
with anchors and tie downs such as cast in concrete provided eyelets imbedded
in concrete foundations or runways, screw auger, arrowhead anchors, or other
devices securing the stability of the mobile home.
   L.   Solid Waste Disposal: Arrangements for solid waste disposal and pick up
shall be made with tenants responsibility, if any, clearly identified.
   M.   Fire Protection:
      1.   All mobile home courts shall meet the minimum standards for fire
protection set forth by the state department of fire protection and electrical
safety.
      2.   All mobile home courts shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and
other flammable materials. Portable fire extinguishers shall be kept in public
service buildings under court control.
   N.   Lighting: All mobile home court streets and public spaces shall be
lighted at night.
   O.   Buffer Areas: All mobile home courts located adjacent to industrial or
commercial uses shall be provided with buffer areas of trees and other
vegetation along the boundary lines separating the court and such adjacent
nonresidential uses.
   P.   Final Plan: The final plan of any mobile home court shall reflect all
the recommendations of the council. The town clerk-treasurer shall be provided
with one reproducible and two (2) paper copies of the final plan and
reproducible copies of as built maps of all utility lines installed by the
applicant. (1986 Code § 4-606)
9-4-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
To encourage the orderly construction of accessory buildings, the following
standard must be met before issuance of a permit:
All accessory buildings or their extensions shall be located at least ten feet
(10') from existing streets and three feet (3') from all property lines or
alleyways. (1986 Code § 4-607)
9-4-8: SIGNS:
With the livelihood of the town dependent on tourism, the impact of advertising
on visitors is of utmost importance. To protect and effectively and
aesthetically promote the businesses within the immediate town area, the
following minimum standards shall be met for compliance with this section:
   A.   Size Of On Premises Signs: All on premises signs shall be no larger
than twenty (20) square feet.
   B.   Off Premises Signs: All off premises signs shall show direction to a
development site located within or one mile surrounding the town limits and
shall be no larger than fifteen (15) square feet. No more than two (2) off
premises signs shall be permitted for each development site.
   C.   Noncompliance Of Existing Signs: All existing signs not in compliance
with this section within five (5) years after date of construction or six (6)
months after the passage date hereof, whichever is later, may be removed at the
owner's expense. (1986 Code § 4-608)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE, METHODS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statutory Authorization
10-1-2: Findings Of Fact
10-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state has, in Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-103,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989; amd. 2012 Code)
10-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard, which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Definitions
10-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application:
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated areas of special flood
hazard designated as zone A.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. This term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a
site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: 1) before the improvement or repair is
started; or 2) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   B.   The term does not, however, include either:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary
to assure safe living conditions; or
2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of historic
places or a state inventory of historic places. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Lands Applicable
10-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-3-3: Compliance Required
10-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-3-5: Interpretation
10-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in its flood insurance rate map (FIRM), dated May 1, 1986, is
adopted by reference and declared to be part of this title. The FIRM is on file
at the Ten Sleep Town Hall, Ten Sleep, Wyoming, 82442. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989;
amd. 2012 Code)
10-3-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 112, 8-
7-1989)
10-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create
liability on the part of the town, any officer or employee thereof, or the
federal emergency management agency for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this title or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-4-2: Administrator Designated
10-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in section
10-3-2 of this title. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the local administrator and may include, but not be limited
to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures;
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been
floodproofed;
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
10-5-2B of this title; and
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-4-2: ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED:
The town, or such other person as shall be designated by the mayor and town
council, shall implement this title by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989; amd. 2012
Code)
10-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Duties of the local administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this title, "adversely affects" means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
         a.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         b.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer's
certification) for the proposed development shall be required.
         c.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this title shall apply.
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
10-3-2 of this title, the local administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction,
substantial improvements or other development in zone A are administered in
accordance with section
10-5-2 of this title.
   C.   Information Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certification required in subsection
10-4-1C of this chapter.
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this title.
   D.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Wyoming emergency management
agency prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   E.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Standards
10-5-2: Specific Standards
10-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and capable
of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
      2.   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
         a.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring
one additional tie per side.
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to be manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      4.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Encroachments: Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
10-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection
10-4-3B of this title, the following standards are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation, the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this subsection. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in subsection
10-4-3C2 of this title. (Ord. 112, 8-7-1989)
