TOWN OF THAYNE, WYOMING
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 395, passed - -2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This Town Code of Thayne, contains ordinances up to and including ordinance
395, passed 2024. Ordinances of the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede
the provisions of this Town Code to the extent that they are in conflict or
inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town office in order to ascertain whether
any particular provision of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
THAYNE TOWN CODE   1
SAVING CLAUSE   2
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS   3
GENERAL PENALTY   4
CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS   5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL      6
ELECTIONS   7
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE RULES   8
CHAPTER 1: THAYNE TOWN CODE
Section
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Codification Authority
1-1-3: Acceptance
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Alterations
1-1-6: References To Specific Ordinances
1-1-7: Distribution And Sale
Statutory reference:
   WS §§ 15-1-103, 15-1-114, 15-1-115, 15-1-116
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Town Council, this Town Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the Official Town Code of Thayne. This Town Code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the THAYNE TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Town Council, and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the Town as provided in section
1-1-4  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Town Code by title in any legal document.
(1982 Code § 1.01.020)
1-1-2: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This Code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of
the administrative ordinances of the Town codified pursuant to the provision of
Wyoming Statutes sections 15-1-116, as amended.
(1982 Code § 1.01.030)
1-1-3: ACCEPTANCE:
The Town Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title.
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Whenever a reference is made to the Municipal Code of Thayne or the
Thayne Municipal Code, or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the
Town, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions
heretofore, now or hereafter made.
   B.   Any ordinance amending the Town Code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Town Code. The
specific procedure for such amendments shall be as provided in section
1-6-4 of this title. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this Town Code. Each
such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in
each individual copy of the Town Code.
(1982 Code § 1.01.040)
1-1-5: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Town Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the Town and shall be returned to the Office of the Town
Clerk when directed so to do by order of the Town Council.
1-1-6: REFERENCES TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this Code shall not in any manner affect matters of record
which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein
specifically designated by number, or otherwise, and which are included within
the Code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this Code.
(1982 Code § 1.01.060)
1-1-7: DISTRIBUTION AND SALE:
The Town Council may by resolution provide for the distribution and sale of
copies of the Code.
(1982 Code § 1.01.090)
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings; Effect Of Repeal
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the Town passed prior to the adoption of this
Town Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Town Code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
Town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the Town or any evidence of
the Town indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for Town officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      9.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the Town.
      10.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the same
extent as if fully set out herein.
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Town Code or by virtue of section
 1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the Town Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this Town Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS; EFFECT OF REPEAL:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, license, fee, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right
accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to
affect any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising
before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings
thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such
proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Town Code.
(1982 Code § 1.01.070)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein, are severable, and if any phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code or any code adopted herein, or of
any ordinance in the Code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of
the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
Code, or of any codes or portions of codes adopted herein.
(1982 Code § 1.01.080)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Section
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines; Headings
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Town Council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first and including the last day unless the last
day is a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which case the period shall
run until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other Town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty, unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving “joint authority” to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May, Must And Shall: The word “may” is permissive, and the words “must”
and “shall” are mandatory.
   H.   Or; And: “Or” may be read “and”, and “and” may be read “or”, if the
sense requires it.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   K.   Title Of Office: Use of the title of any officer, employee, department,
board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board or
commission of the Town.
   L.   Preceding, Following: Next before and next after, respectively.
   M.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   N.   Acts By Agents: When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being
such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent.
   O.   Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting: Whenever in the
ordinances of the Town, any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the
fact of such act or omission.
   P.   Ordinance Provisions; Construction:
      1.   The provisions of the ordinances of the Town, and all proceedings
under them, are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to
promote justice.
      2.   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the Town has
been changed in the content of this code to “title”, “chapter”, “section” and/
or “subsection”, or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to Town ordinances is not meant to amend passage and
effective dates of such original ordinances.
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL: The officer, agent or employee of the Municipality
charged by the governing body with the administration, enforcement or both the
administration and enforcement of the particular provisions of this Code in
which the term is used.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Town Code of the Town of Thayne, Wyoming.
COUNTY: The County of Lincoln, Wyoming.
GOVERNING BODY: The elected Mayor and Town Council of the Municipality.
IN THE MUNICIPALITY; IN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE MUNICIPALITY: Means and
includes any territory within the corporate limits of the Municipality, the
police jurisdiction thereof and any other territory over which regulatory power
has been conferred on the Municipality by general or special act.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The Mayor of the Town of Thayne, Wyoming.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUNICIPALITY: The Town of Thayne, Wyoming.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear”
and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole, but any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land, and shall include any agent of
such owner, and where such owner is a body corporate, it shall include the
managing agent or officer within the Town.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein, except real property.
PROPERTY: Includes real, personal and mixed property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The State of Wyoming.
STATE LAW: The Wyoming Statutes, as amended.
STREET: Shall mean and include public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways,
roads, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all other public
thoroughfares in the Town of Thayne.
TENANT, OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
TOWN: The Town of Thayne, Lincoln County, Wyoming.
TOWN COUNCIL OR COUNCIL: The Town Council of the Town of Thayne, Wyoming.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Shall include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters; provided, that in all cases where the written
signature of a person is required, the proper handwriting of such person, or
his mark, shall be required.
YEAR: The fiscal year of the Town of Thayne, unless otherwise defined.
(1982 Code § 1.02.020)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES; HEADINGS:
   A.   Title, chapter and section headings contained herein shall not be
deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or
intent of the provisions of any title, chapter or section hereof.
(1982 Code § 1.01.050)
   B.   The catchlines of the sections and the headings of titles, chapters,
articles and sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate
the contents of the titles, chapters, articles and sections and shall not be
deemed or taken to be part of the titles, chapters, articles and sections nor
as any part of any subsection, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be
so deemed when any title, chapter, article or section, including its catchline
or heading, is amended or reenacted.
(1982 Code § 1.02.030)
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Actions For Penalties Or Fines
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance, resolution
or regulation promulgated by any officer or agency of the Municipality under
authority vested in him by law or ordinance, any act is prohibited or is
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an
offense of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution or
regulation shall be punished by either a fine of not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding six (6)
months, or both; provided, that the imposition of any such fine or imprisonment
shall not bar institution of appropriate legal actions or proceedings by the
Municipality to restrain, correct or abate the violation nor shall the
institution of such legal actions or proceedings be deemed a bar to the
imposition of such fine or imprisonment.
   B.   Continuing Violation: Except as otherwise provided, each day any
violation of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution or regulations
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1982 Code § 1.02.050)
Statutory reference:
   WS §§ 6-10-103, 15-1-103(a)(xli)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this Code the
same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Town Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
1-4-4: ACTIONS FOR PENALTIES OR FINES:
   A.   To Be Brought In Corporate Name: All actions brought to recover any
penalty or fine shall be brought in the corporate name of the Municipality.
   B.   Disposition Of Recoveries: The recoveries, when collected, shall be
paid into the treasury of the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 1.02.060)
CHAPTER 5: CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
Section
1-5-1: Municipal Seal
1-5-1: MUNICIPAL SEAL:
   A.   The official seal of the Municipality shall be as described by the
governing body of the Municipality.
   B.   The Municipal seal shall be affixed to all vouchers, licenses,
contracts, deeds, resolutions, ordinances, minutes of the governing body and
all other papers which are signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk.
(1982 Code § 1.02.070)
CHAPTER 6: MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
Section
1-6-1: Meetings
1-6-2: Removal For Failure To Attend Regular Meetings
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-2-102
1-6-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Open Meetings; Information Required Of Attending Public:
      1.   All meetings of the governing body and all other boards, commissions
and agencies of the Municipality shall be open to the public at all times,
except as provided in subsection B of this section. No action of such a body
shall be taken except during a public meeting.
      2.   A member of the public shall not be required, as a condition of
attendance of any meeting, to register his name, to supply information, to
complete a questionnaire, or fulfill any other condition precedent to his
attendance, except that a person seeking recognition may be required to give
his name and affiliation.
(1982 Code § 2.03.010)
   B.   Executive Sessions: Executive sessions, not open to the public, of the
governing body and all other boards, commissions and agencies of the
Municipality may be held:
      1.   With the Prosecuting Attorney, Municipal Attorney, Chief of Police
or their respective deputies, or other officers of the law, on matters posing a
threat to the security of public or private property or a threat to the
public’s right of access;
      2.   To consider the appointment, employment, right to practice or
dismissal of a public officer, professional person or employee, or to hear
complaints or charges brought against an employee, professional person or
officer, unless the employee, professional person or officer requests a public
hearing. The governing body may exclude from any public or private hearing
during the examination of a witness, any or all other witnesses in the matter
being investigated. Following the hearing or executive session, the governing
body may deliberate on its decision in executive sessions;
      3.   On matters concerning litigation to which the governing body is a
party or proposed litigation to which the governing body may be a party;
      4.   When the agency is a licensing agency while preparing, administering
or grading examinations;
      5.   To consider the selection of a site or the purchase of real estate
when the publicity regarding the consideration would cause a likelihood of an
increase in price;
      6.   To consider acceptance of gifts, donations and bequests which the
donor has requested in writing be kept confidential;
      7.   To consider or receive any information classified as confidential by
law;
      8.   To consider accepting or tendering offers concerning wages,
salaries, benefits and terms of employment during all such negotiations.
(1982 Code § 2.03.020)
   C.   Disruption Of Meeting: If any public meeting is wilfully disrupted by a
person or group of persons so as to render the orderly conduct of the meeting
unfeasible, and order cannot be restored by the removal of the person or
persons who are wilfully interrupting the meeting, the removal of such person
or group from the meeting room may be ordered and the meeting continued, or the
meeting may be recessed and reconvened at another location. Only matters
appearing on the agenda may be acted upon in a meeting recessed to another
location. Procedures for readmitting an individual or individuals not
responsible for disturbing the conduct of a meeting shall be established by the
body conducting such meeting. Duly accredited members of the press or other
news media except those who participated in a disturbance, shall be allowed to
attend any meeting permitted by this section.
(1982 Code § 2.03.030)
   D.   Date And Time Of Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the governing
body shall be held each month on the day of the month and at the time
designated by the governing body; provided, that in all instances that such day
is observed as a legal holiday for Municipal offices, the regular meeting of
the governing body shall be held on the following day.
(1982 Code § 2.03.040)
   E.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the governing body may be called
from time to time by the presiding officer of the governing body or any two (2)
members of the governing body. The subject for the special meeting shall be
submitted to the governing body in writing, and the disposition thereof entered
upon the journal of the governing body by the Town Clerk. The action of the
governing body at each special session shall be confined to the subject
submitted in writing to the governing body.
(1982 Code § 2.03.050)
   F.   Adjourned Or Recessed Meetings: Adjourned or recessed meetings of the
governing body may be held at such time as the governing body may determine.
(1982 Code § 2.03.060)
   G.   Presiding Officer: The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
governing body; provided, that in the absence of the Mayor, the member of the
governing body appointed by the governing body as the Mayor Pro Tem shall
preside.
(1982 Code § 2.03.070)
   H.   Duties Of Clerk As To Journal: It shall be the duty of the City Clerk
to keep the journal of the governing body. The City Clerk shall publish the
minutes of any meeting of the governing body according to state statute. Such
copy shall include every bill presented to the governing body showing the
amount of the bill, what the bill was for and by whom claimed. In addition, the
Clerk shall be responsible for the safekeeping of such journal and providing
for the exhibition of such journal to the public when so requested.
(1982 Code § 2.03.080)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-105, 16-4-401 et seq.
1-6-2: REMOVAL FOR FAILURE TO ATTEND REGULAR MEETINGS:
   A.   Charter Ordinance Authority: This charter ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the authority vested in cities and towns of the State of Wyoming by article
13, section 1(c) of the Wyoming Constitution.
(1982 Code § 17.01.010)
   B.   Removal Of Mayor Or Council Member: The Mayor or any Council member
shall be automatically removed from office for failure to attend three (3)
regularly scheduled meetings of the Town Council within any calendar year,
without reasonable cause. Reasonable cause shall be determined by a majority
vote of the Mayor and Town Council members. Removal pursuant to the provisions
of this charter ordinance shall take effect at one minute past twelve o’clock
(12:01) A.M. on the day following the third meeting in any calendar year at
which the Mayor or Town Council member failed to attend without providing a
reasonable excuse for failure to attend.
(1982 Code § 17.01.020)
   C.   Appointment To Fill Vacancy: When a vacancy occurs in the Office of
Mayor or Council member in the event of removal pursuant to the provisions of
this charter ordinance, the governing body shall appoint an eligible person to
the office who shall serve until his or her successor is elected in the next
general Municipal election and qualified, except that a vacancy in the Office
of Mayor shall be filled only from the governing body.
(1982 Code § 17.01.030)
   D.   Passage, Public And Effective Date: After passage and approval by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members of the Town Council, this ordinance shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town of Thayne once a
week for two (2) consecutive weeks, and shall become effective sixty (60) days
after the date of final publication.
(1982 Code § 17.01.040)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Mayor shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
per month. The compensation of each Council member shall be seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for actual attendance at each regular or special meeting;
provided, that this section shall not be applied to increase the salary of any
officer during his term in effect as of the date of adoption of the ordinance
codified herein.
(Ord. 267, 3-9-2011)
1-6-4: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Amendment Or Repeal Of Code Provisions: The amendment or repeal of
existing provisions of this Code or the insertion of additional provisions in
this Code shall be done in the following manner:
      1.   Ordinances amending existing sections shall designate, by section
number, the sections which are affected and set out in full the new language of
each such section.
      2.   Ordinances repealing existing sections shall designate, by section
number, the sections which are repealed.
      3.   Ordinances adding sections to the Code shall designate where such
sections are to be inserted.
      a.   Sections which should be placed between existing sections shall be
numbered decimally as illustrated in the following example: An ordinance adding
three (3) sections which should logically fall between sections
2-1-1 and
2-1-2 would be numbered 2-1-1-1, 2-1-1-2 and 2-1-1-3, respectively.
      b.   Ordinances adding new material not presently covered by a chapter
heading in the Code shall be inserted in alphabetical order between existing
chapters based on the subject matter of the ordinance. The new chapter shall be
numbered decimally as illustrated in the following example: An ordinance adding
a new chapter which should be inserted between existing chapters 2-6 and 3-
1 would be numbered 2-7 with the individual sections of such chapters being
numbered 2-7-1 et seq.
      c.   Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted as prohibiting the
rearrangement of such additional materials by the official codifier of the
Municipality’s ordinances in order to ensure the proper codification of such
ordinances.
(1982 Code § 2.04.010)
   B.   Repeal Of Repealers: The repeal of an ordinance which repeals a former
ordinance or provision of this Code shall not revive the former ordinance or
provision of this Code unless expressly so provided.
(1982 Code § 2.04.020)
   C.   Numbering: Each ordinance passed by the governing body shall be
systematically identified by a number assigned to such ordinance pursuant to a
systematic numbering system adopted by the governing body. The numbering system
so adopted shall reflect the sequence of adoption of all the Municipality’s
ordinances from the implementation of such numbering system and shall assign a
particular number to only one ordinance.
(1982 Code § 2.04.030)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-114 - 15-1-119
CHAPTER 7: ELECTIONS
Section
1-7-1: Charter Ordinance Authority
1-7-2: Town Elections Regulated By Charter
1-7-3: Date, Time And Place Of Town Elections
1-7-4: Notice Of Elections
1-7-5: Nomination Applications
1-7-6: Certification Of Candidates And Names On Ballot
1-7-7: Vacancies In Nomination
1-7-8: Certification Of Ballot Propositions
1-7-9: Preparation Of Ballots
1-7-10: Town Canvassing Board
1-7-11: Canvassing Election Results
1-7-12: Certificate Of Election
1-7-13: Commencement Of Term Of Office
1-7-14: Constitutional Oath Required
1-7-15: Election Expenses
1-7-16: Certain Sections Of Wyoming Election Code Of 1973 Not Applicable
1-7-17: Wyoming Election Code Generally Applicable
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS title 22
1-7-1: CHARTER ORDINANCE AUTHORITY:
This charter ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority vested in cities and
towns of the State of Wyoming by article 13, section 1(c) of the Wyoming
Constitution.
(Charter Ord. 4, 5-19-1988)
1-7-2: TOWN ELECTIONS REGULATED BY CHARTER:
The Town Council does hereby elect to conduct elections pursuant to the terms
of this charter ordinance and not in the same manner as Statewide elections.
(1982 Code § 16.01.020)
1-7-3: DATE, TIME AND PLACE OF TOWN ELECTIONS:
The 1987 election for Mayor and Council members shall be held on the second
Tuesday of May between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock
(7:00) P.M., local time, at the Thayne Town Hall, or at such other polling
place or places as shall be designated by the Town Clerk. Thereafter, elections
for Mayor and Council members shall be held on the Tuesday next following the
first Monday in November of each even numbered year. Such elections shall be
held between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00)
P.M., local time, at the Town Hall and/or at such other polling place or places
as shall be designated by the Town Clerk. The term of the Mayor who was elected
in May 1987, is hereby extended by interim appointment until January 1, 1990,
or until his successor is elected and qualified. The terms of the two (2)
Council members elected in the May 1987 election are hereby extended by interim
appointment until January 1, 1992, or until their successors are elected and
qualified. The Mayor shall serve a two (2) year term of office and each Council
member shall serve a four (4) year term of office.
(Charter Ord. 4, 5-19-1988)
1-7-4: NOTICE OF ELECTIONS:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-12, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-12. Town Clerk to publish proclamation. Between twenty five (25)
and fifteen (15) days before each Town election, the Town Clerk shall publish
once in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the Town and post
conspicuously in not less than three (3) public places in the Town a
proclamation setting forth the date, time and place of the forthcoming
election, the titles and terms of the offices to be filled at the election, the
number of persons required by law to fill the offices, and in addition before
the election, the legislative description of each proposed ballot proposition
submitted to the voters of the Town.
(1982 Code § 16.01.040)
1-7-5: NOMINATION APPLICATIONS:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-321, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-321. Nomination application; filing, fees, etc. Not more than
sixty (60) days nor less than twenty (20) days preceding the Town election,
each candidate for a Town office shall pay a filing fee of $10.00 and shall
sign and file with the Town Clerk an application in substantially the following
form:
State of Wyoming )
County of Lincoln )
I,               , the undersigned, being             years of age, a qualified
elector of the Town of Thayne and the State of Wyoming, do hereby petition and
request that my name be printed upon the official Ballot at the next Town
election as a candidate for the office of                         . I hereby
declare that if nominated and elected I will qualify for the office.
Dated:                     
                           
Signature of Candidate
                           
Residence Address
(1982 Code § 16.01.050)
1-7-6: CERTIFICATION OF CANDIDATES AND NAMES ON BALLOT:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1.322, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-322. Certification of candidates for nomination; names on ballots.
Not later than fifteen (15) days prior to an election for the office of Mayor
and Council, the Town Clerk shall determine the names of all qualified
candidates for nomination at the election and the office they seek, whose names
shall be printed on the election ballot.
(1982 Code § 16.01.060)
1-7-7: VACANCIES IN NOMINATION:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-327, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-327. Vacancies in nomination. A vacancy in nomination for a Town
office to be filled at a Town election occurs if at the time of the Town
election there are no qualified nomination applications for the office of
Mayor, or there are less than two (2) qualified nomination applications for a
Council member. A vacancy in nomination shall be filled by the Town Council.
(1982 Code § 16.01.070)
1-7-8: CERTIFICATION OF BALLOT PROPOSITIONS:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-319, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-319. Certification of ballot propositions. A Town ballot
proposition to be voted on at a Town election shall be printed on the Town
ballot by the Town Clerk.
(1982 Code § 16.01.080)
1-7-9: PREPARATION OF BALLOTS:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-328, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-328. Preparation of ballots. The Town Clerk shall prepare ballots
which shall be in substantially the same form as the Statewide general election
nonpartisan ballot. The name of every candidate legally qualified to appear on
the ballot and all Town ballot propositions to be voted on at the election
shall be printed thereon.
(1982 Code § 16.01.090)
1-7-10: TOWN CANVASSING BOARD:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-23, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-223. Town canvassing board; composition; compensation. The Town
canvassing board is the Town Clerk and two (2) electors of different political
parties resident in the Town, appointed by the Town Council. The two (2)
electors shall receive the same compensation as election judges for Statewide
elections.
(1982 Code § 16.01.100)
1-7-11: CANVASSING ELECTION RESULTS:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-331, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-331. Canvassing results; certification; tie votes. The returns of
the Town election shall be canvassed by the Town canvassing board, which shall
certify the results in writing to the Town Clerk. A tie vote shall be broken by
lots cast by the Town canvassing board.
(1982 Code § 16.01.110)
1-7-12: CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-332, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended as follows:
Section 22.1-332. Certificate of election. As soon as the official results of
the general election is received from the Town canvassing board, the Town Clerk
shall issue certificates of election to the persons receiving the highest
number of votes for each office to be filed at the election.
(1982 Code § 16.01.120)
1-7-13: COMMENCEMENT OF TERM OF OFFICE:
Wyoming Statutes section 22.1-333, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-333. Commencement of term of office. The term of office of a
person elected at the Town election commences on June 1 following the election.
(1982 Code § 16.01.130)
1-7-14: CONSTITUTIONAL OATH REQUIRED:
Wyoming Statutes section 21.1-334, as it applies to the Town of Thayne, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 22.1-334. Constitutional oath required. Before entering his duties, a
person elected to a Town office shall sign and file with the Town Clerk the
same constitutional oath of office as County officers.
(1982 Code § 16.01.140)
1-7-15: ELECTION EXPENSES:
The Town of Thayne shall bear the entire expense of any election held pursuant
to this charter ordinance. (1982 Code § 16.01.150)
1-7-16: CERTAIN SECTIONS OF WYOMING ELECTION CODE OF 1973 NOT APPLICABLE:
Wyoming Statutes sections 22.1-320, 22.1-323, 22.1-324, 22.1-325, 22.1-326, and
section 22.1-389 through 22.1-405, shall not apply to the Town.
(1982 Code § 16.01.160)
1-7-17: WYOMING ELECTION CODE GENERALLY APPLICABLE:
Except as those sections of the Wyoming Statutes not applicable to the Town of
Thayne by this charter ordinance, all matters with respect to elections for
Town office or for ballot propositions of the Town shall be held in accordance
with the provisions of the Wyoming Election Code and any amendments,
modifications or revisions thereof.
(1982 Code § 16.01.170)
CHAPTER 8: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE RULES
Section
1-8-1: Scope
1-8-2: Petitions; Initiation Of Contest; Filing Period
1-8-3: Place Of Filing; Contents
1-8-4: Service
1-8-5: Answer Generally
1-8-6: Docket; Filing Fee
1-8-7: Default
1-8-8: Disposition Without Hearing
1-8-9: Hearing Of Motions Generally
1-8-10: Depositions; Discovery
1-8-11: Prehearing Conferences
1-8-12: Hearings; Date; Notice; Representatives
1-8-13: Order Of Procedure
1-8-14: Subpoenas
1-8-15: Swearing Of Witnesses
1-8-16: Applicability Of Civil Rules Of Procedure
1-8-17: Attorneys
1-8-18: Recording Of Proceedings
1-8-19: Making And Filing Of Decisions
1-8-20: Review Or Rehearing Or Rate Making, Price Fixing Or Licensing Cases
1-8-21: Appeals To District Court Generally
1-8-22: Transcripts
1-8-23: Applicability Of Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 16-3
1-8-1: SCOPE:
The rules of practice and procedure set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable only in contested cases, as defined in Wyoming Statutes section 16-
3-101, as amended, before the governing body of the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 2.06.010)
1-8-2: PETITIONS; INITIATION OF CONTEST; FILING PERIOD:
All contested cases to which the rules of practice and procedure set forth in
this chapter apply shall be initiated either by the governing body of the
Municipality, the particular rule making agency of the Municipality or by a
contestee, upon a written verified petition which shall allege the acts or
omissions by which the contestee is aggrieved or adversely affected. The
petition shall be filed within ten (10) days of the act or omission from which
the petitioner is aggrieved or adversely affected.
(1982 Code § 2.06.020)
1-8-3: PLACE OF FILING; CONTENTS:
The verified petition shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall set forth:
   A.   Agency Name: The name of the agency to which the petition is directed.
   B.   Contestee Information: The name and address of each contestee and his
attorney, if any.
   C.   Legal Description: The legal description and a plat plan of real
property involved in the contest, if any.
   D.   Statement Of Facts: A statement, in ordinary and concise language, of
the facts upon which the petition is based, including reference to statutory
laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders and including any instruments
or documents involved in the allegations therein contained.
   E.   Relief Desired: A concise request or prayer for the specific relief
desired.
(1982 Code § 2.06.030)
1-8-4: SERVICE:
The petitioner shall cause to be served upon all agencies and persons named in
the petition a full, true and correct copy thereof. Service shall be made
personally or by registered or certified mail with return receipt thereof in
accordance with the provisions of Rule 4, Wyoming Rules of Civil Procedure;
provided, that personal service made within the Municipality may be made by a
member of the Police Department. In the case of the agency, service shall be
made upon the presiding officers of the governing body of the Municipality or
the presiding officer of the particular rule making agency. Proof of service
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Rule 4, Wyoming Rules of
Civil Procedure.
(1982 Code § 2.06.040)
1-8-5: ANSWER GENERALLY:
The agencies or persons against whom a petition has been filed, as provided in
this chapter, shall be allowed twenty (20) days from and after the date of
service of the petition within which to file with the City Clerk his answer or
other appearance. A copy of such answer or other appearance shall be served
upon the petitioner in accordance with the provisions of Rule 5, Wyoming Rules
of Civil Procedure.
(1982 Code § 2.06.050)
1-8-6: DOCKET; FILING FEE:
When a proceeding is instituted by the filing of a petition as provided in this
chapter, the City Clerk shall assign it a number and enter it with the date of
its filing on a separate page of a docket provided for that purpose. The City
Clerk shall keep separate dockets for a governing body of the Municipality and
each agency of the Municipality and shall establish a separate file for each
docketed case, in which shall be placed pleadings, documents, papers,
transcripts, evidence and exhibits pertaining thereto; and all such items shall
have noted thereon the docket number assigned and the date of filing. There
shall be a filing fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) which shall be paid
to the City Clerk at the time of filing of the verified petition.
(1982 Code § 2.06.060)
1-8-7: DEFAULT:
In the event of failure of either the governing body of the Municipality, a
rule making agency thereof or a contestee to answer or otherwise appear within
the time allowed by these rules; provided, that section
1-8-4 of this chapter has been complied with, such agency or contestee so
failing to answer or otherwise appear, shall not be allowed to answer or
otherwise appear thereafter; and after written notice to the petitioner, the
proceeding will be brought before the agency to which it was presented for
consideration and appropriate action.
(1982 Code § 2.06.070)
1-8-8: DISPOSITION WITHOUT HEARING:
Any proceeding initiated under this chapter may be concluded by stipulation,
agreed settlement, consent order or default of the parties or motion and order
of dismissal if any such disposition is approved by the agency before which it
was initiated. If a proceeding is so disposed of an appropriate order shall he
entered and included in the case record.
(1982 Code § 2.06.080)
1-8-9: HEARING OF MOTIONS GENERALLY:
The agency before which the proceeding was initiated may, after ten (10) days’
notice given in accordance with section
1-8-12 of this chapter, hear any motion filed in connection with any proceeding
initiated pursuant to the rules set forth in this chapter.
(1982 Code § 2.06.090)
1-8-10: DEPOSITIONS; DISCOVERY:
Any party to a proceeding initiated pursuant to the rules set forth in this
chapter may take depositions and discovery in accordance with Wyoming Statutes
section 16-3-101 et seq., as amended.
(1982 Code § 2.06.100)
1-8-11: PREHEARING CONFERENCES:
Prior to the day of hearing, the agency before which the proceeding was
initiated may direct the parties to the proceeding or their attorneys to appear
before the agency for a prehearing conference.
(1982 Code § 2.06.110)
1-8-12: HEARINGS; DATE; NOTICE; REPRESENTATIVES:
After the issues of the case have been joined the agency before which the
proceeding was initiated shall set a date, time and place for hearing. The
agency shall give notice of hearing to all parties to the proceeding in
accordance with the provisions of Wyoming Statutes section 16-3-101 et seq., as
amended. Such notice shall be given personally or by certified or registered
mail with return receipt thereof not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of hearing. If notice of hearing is given by mail, the computation of time
shall begin to run on the date the notice is deposited into United States mail.
All issues and matters involved in a proceeding shall be presented on behalf of
the governing body of the Municipality or other rule making agency of the
Municipality, as the case may be, by an officer or agent of such agency as
designated by it. Any contestee may be represented personally or by counsel
subject to the provisions of section
1-8-17 of this chapter.
(1982 Code § 2.06.120)
1-8-13: ORDER OF PROCEDURE:
As nearly as may be, hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the
following order of procedure:
   A.   Opening Of Hearing: The presiding officer of the agency before which
the hearing is being conducted shall announce that the hearing is convened upon
the call of the docket number and title of the matter to be heard and shall
direct the reading into the record of the formal notice of hearing given by the
agency and shall note for the record all subpoenas issued and all appearances
of record, including contestees and their counsels of record.
   B.   Opening Statement: The petitioner or his agent or attorney shall be
allowed to make an opening statement to briefly explain his position to the
agency and to outline the evidence he proposes to offer.
   C.   Presentation Of Evidence: The petitioner or his agent or attorney shall
thereupon proceed to present his evidence. Witnesses may be cross examined by
members of the agency. All exhibits offered by and on behalf of the petitioner
shall be marked by letters of the alphabet beginning with “A”.
   D.   Other Parties: The other parties shall, in the order of answers or
appearances made, be heard in the same manner as the petitioner.
      1.   They shall be allowed to make an opening statement in the same
manner and for the same purpose as the petitioner.
      2.   Their evidence, witnesses and exhibits shall be marked by numbers
beginning with “1".
   E.   Evidence Offered Out Of Order: The agency may, in its discretion, allow
evidence to be offered out of order.
   F.   Rebuttal: At the conclusion of the presentation of the other party’s
evidence, the petitioner may present rebuttal evidence.
   G.   Closing Of Evidence: At the conclusion of the petitioner’s rebuttal
evidence, or if there is not rebuttal evidence, at the conclusion of the other
party’s evidence, the presiding officer of the agency shall declare the
evidence closed.
   H.   Closing Statements:
      1.   Closing statements will be made in the following sequence:
         a.   Petitioner.
         b.   Other parties.
         c.   Petitioner in rebuttal.
      2.   The time for oral arguments or closing statement may be limited by
the agency.
   I.   Hearing Closed: After all the proceedings have been concluded, the
agency shall declare the hearing closed. Any party may tender briefs of law to
the agency, and the agency may call for such briefs as they may deem advisable
or grant a party a reasonable time within which to prepare and submit briefs to
aid the agency in arriving at a decision. The agency shall take the case under
advisement and shall declare that its decision will be announced within a
reasonable time following consideration of all the matters presented at the
hearing.
(1982 Code § 2.06.130)
1-8-14: SUBPOENAS:
The presiding officer of the agency before which a proceeding is initiated
pursuant to the rules set forth in this chapter shall, upon written request of
any part to the proceedings, issue subpoenas for appearance or to produce
books, papers or other documents or subpoenas duces tecum in accordance with
the provisions of Wyoming Statutes section 16-3-107, as amended.
(1982 Code § 2.06.140)
1-8-15: SWEARING OF WITNESSES:
All persons testifying at any hearing pursuant to the rules set forth in this
chapter shall stand and be administered the following oath by either the
presiding officer or secretary of the Municipality:
Do you swear (or affirm) to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the
truth in this hearing now before the Town of Thayne, Wyoming?
(1982 Code § 2.06.150)
1-8-16: APPLICABILITY OF CIVIL RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The rules of practice and procedure contained in the Rules of Civil Procedure
of Wyoming, insofar as the same may be applicable and not inconsistent with the
laws of the State in matters before an agency and applicable to the rules,
order and regulations promulgated by an agency under such laws, shall apply.
(1982 Code § 2.06.160)
1-8-17: ATTORNEYS:
The filing of an answer or other appearance by an attorney constitutes his
appearance for the party for whom the pleading is filed. The agency before
which the proceeding is initiated shall be notified in writing of his
withdrawal from any hearing. Any person appearing before an agency at a hearing
in a representative capacity shall be precluded from examining or cross
examining any witness unless such person shall be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State or a nonresident attorney associated with a Wyoming
attorney qualified to practice law in the State. This rule shall not be
construed to prohibit any person from representing himself in any hearing
before an agency.
(1982 Code § 2.06.170)
1-8-18: RECORDING OF PROCEEDINGS:
When oral testimony of witnesses is taken in contested cases before an agency,
the proceedings, including all testimony, shall be reported verbatim by a
competent reporter. The compensation of such reporter shall be paid by the
unsuccessful party or as otherwise ordered by the agency. If a transcript of
testimony is required in the subsequent agency deliberations, the cost thereof
shall he furnished to the agency by the unsuccessful party.
(1982 Code § 2.06.180)
1-8-19: MAKING AND FILING OF DECISIONS:
The agency before which a hearing pursuant to this chapter is conducted shall,
following the full and complete hearing, make and enter a written decision and
order in all contested cases, in accordance with the provisions of Wyoming
Statutes section 16-3-110, as amended. Such decisions and orders shall be filed
with the agency and will, without further action, become the decision and order
as a result of the hearing. Upon entry and filing, the agency shall send a copy
by prepaid mail to each party or their attorneys of record.
(1982 Code § 2.06.190)
1-8-20: REVIEW OR REHEARING OF RATE MAKING, PRICE FIXING OR LICENSING CASES:
In all contested cases conducted in accordance with the rules of practice and
procedure set forth in this chapter, the subject of which is licensing, the
decision of the agency before which the proceeding is initiated shall be final
and shall not be subject to review or rehearing by such agency. Subsequent
petitions requesting the same or similar relief shall not be accepted by the
City Clerk or considered by an agency subject to these rules for a period of
twelve (12) months following the entry of the decision of the agency before
which the original proceeding was initiated.
(1982 Code § 2.06.200)
1-8-21: APPEALS:
Appeals to the District Court from decisions of the agency are governed by the
Wyoming Rules of Appellate Procedure as promulgated by the Supreme Court of the
State of Wyoming.
(1982 Code § 2.06.210)
1-8-22: TRANSCRIPTS:
In case of an appeal to the District Court, the party appealing shall secure
and file a transcript of the testimony and all other evidence offered at the
hearing which transcript must be verified by the oath of the reporter who took
the testimony as a true and correct transcript of the testimony and other
evidence in the case. The compensation of the reporter for making the
transcript of the testimony and all other costs involved in such appeal shall
be borne by the party prosecuting such appeal.
(1982 Code § 2.06.220)
1-8-23: APPLICABILITY OF WYOMING ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT:
In all proceedings before an agency pursuant to the rules set forth in this
chapter, the Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act, Wyoming Statutes sections
16-3-101 et seq., as amended, shall apply. If a conflict arises between such
Act and the rules set forth in this article, the Act shall supersede these
rules.
(1982 Code § 2.06.230)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION   1
CHAPTER 1: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Composition; Appointment; Compensation
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-102
2-1-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created a Planning and Zoning Commission for the Town of
Thayne.
(1982 Code § 2.05.010)
2-1-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission created by section
2-1-1 of this chapter shall be composed of such number of members as the
governing body shall prescribe. Such members shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the advice and consent of the governing body. The members shall receive no
compensation but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
(1982 Code § 2.05.020)
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS   1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES   2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE USE ON TOWN PROPERTY   2A
CHAPTER 1: BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
Section
3-1-1: License Tax Levied
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Exemptions From Licensing Requirements
3-1-5: Application For License
3-1-6: Fees; Payments
3-1-7: Evidence Of Doing Business
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-10: Soliciting And Peddling In Town
3-1-11: Termination Of License
3-1-12: Revocation
3-1-13: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xiii)
3-1-1: LICENSE TAX LEVIED:
For the purpose of raising revenue, the Town of Thayne, a Municipal
corporation, duly incorporated under the laws of the State of Wyoming, does
levy a license tax on business conducted or carried on within the limits of the
Town, with the exception of those exemptions listed in section
3-1-4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 173, 4-13-1992)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meaning set forth hereafter, unless their context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
BUSINESS: Includes all and every kind of lawful business, trade, calling,
profession or occupation.
FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS: Is the premises within the Town where a business is
continuously conducted from day to day and regularly kept open for the purpose
of said business.
JOB LICENSE: A license permitting the completion of a job within the Town of
Thayne by a person, firm or corporation not having a fixed place of business in
the Town.
PERSON: Means and includes all domestic and foreign corporations, associations,
partnerships of every kind and individuals transacting and carrying on any
business in the Town other than as an employee.
TOWN: The Town of Thayne.
(1982 Code § 14.01.020)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, whether as principal or agent, clerk or
employee, on his or her own behalf or for any other person, or for any
corporation or other business entity, to commence or carry on any kind of
lawful business, trade, calling, profession or occupation in the Town without
first having procured a license from the Town to do so, or without complying
with any and all regulations of such business, trade, calling, profession or
occupation as set forth in the applicable government regulations.
(1982 Code § 14.01.080)
3-1-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
The following types of businesses will be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter as follows:
   A.   Farmer, Producer: Any farmer or producer who sells or disposes of
agricultural products.
   B.   Nonprofit: Nonprofit organizations operating a one- or two-day event or
activity.
   C.   Craft Fair: Craft fairs operating any one- or two-day event shall
require one business license that covers all vendors in attendance.
   D.   Evaluation Of Other Types: Any other type business applicants not
included above, may be evaluated and determined as to exemption status, by the
current governing body.
(Ord. 173, 4-13-1992)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for all business licenses shall be made in writing to the Town
Clerk. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the license
desired, the location to be used, the time covered and the fee to be paid, and
each application shall contain such additional information as may be needed for
the proper guidance of the Town officials in the issuing of the license applied
for.
(1982 Code § 14.01.090)
3-1-6: FEES; PAYMENTS:
   A.   Business License Fees: Any current business or any new business
applying for a business license in the Town shall pay an annual license fee of
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per fiscal year, or any portion of the current
fiscal year subject to a June 30th expiration date. A citation will be issued
to each business owner for failure to obtain said license with a five (5) day
probation period to purchase a business license from the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 263, 8-11-2010)
   B.   Payment Of Fees: All fees and charges for business licenses shall be
paid in advance at the time application is made therefor to the Town Clerk.
Except as otherwise provided, all license fees shall become part of the general
fund.
(1982 Code § 14.01.100; amd. Ord. 389, - -2023)
3-1-7: EVIDENCE OF DOING BUSINESS:
Whenever any person by the use of signs, circulars, telephone books or
newspapers advertises, holds out or represents that such person is in business
in the Town, or whenever any person holds an active license of permit issued by
a governmental agency indicating that such person is in business in the Town,
and such person fails to deny by a sworn statement given to the Town Clerk that
such person is not conducting a business in the Town, after being requested to
so swear by the Town Clerk, then these facts shall be considered prima facie
evidence if such person is conducting a business in the Town.
(1982 Code § 14.01.040)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation or of any permitted act may
be changed; provided, that the building and zoning requirements of all Town
ordinances are complied with.
(1982 Code § 14.01.050)
3-1-9: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated so as to amount to
a nuisance in fact.
(1982 Code § 14.01.060)
3-1-10: SOLICITING AND PEDDLING IN TOWN:
Enforcement of the Green River Ordinance becomes effective, thus making it
unlawful for any solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or itinerant
vendor of merchandise, to go in or upon any property within the corporate
limits of the Town, unless first having been invited or requested to do so by
the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said property. Violation of this
section is hereby declared to be a nuisance and punishable upon conviction as
provided in section
3-1-13 of this chapter.
(Ord. 173, 4-13-1992)
3-1-11: TERMINATION OF LICENSES:
All business licenses shall terminate on June 30th at midnight.
(Ord. 143, 12-9-1985)
3-1-12: REVOCATION:
Any business license may be revoked by the Governing Body at any time during
the life of such license for any violation by the licensee of the ordinance
provisions relating to the license or to the premises occupied, and such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(1982 Code § 14.01.120)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Specified: Any violation of this chapter shall be punished upon
conviction as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 14.01.140)
   B.   Separate Violation: The carrying on of any business, trade, calling,
profession or occupation without first having procured a license from the Town
to do so shall be deemed a separate violation of this chapter for each and
every day that such business, trade, calling, profession or occupation is
carried on.
(1982 Code § 14.01.030)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: State Laws Applicable
3-2-4: License Or Permit Required
3-2-5: Application For License And Permit; New And Transfer
3-2-6: Renewal Application For License And Permit
3-2-7: Fees
3-2-8: Term Of License
3-2-9: Types Of Licenses And Permits
3-2-9-1: Retail Licenses
3-2-9-2: Restaurant Licenses
3-2-9-3: One Day Permits
3-2-10: Open Containers
3-2-10-1: Private Business Premises
3-2-11: Alcohol Server Certification Required
3-2-12: Ethel Alcohol; Uses Exempt
3-2-13: Operational Requirements And Restrictions
3-2-14: Bottle Clubs Prohibited
3-2-15: Right Of Entry; Inspection
3-2-16: Suspension, Revocation; Violations; Penalties
3-2-17: Appeal
Statutory reference:
   For statute authority, see WS § 12-4-101 et seq.
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the provisions of this chapter generally is to regulate and
control the sale, possession and use of alcoholic beverages within the Town for
the public health, safety and welfare; to minimize abuse by decreasing litter
and disturbances; to prevent purchases by persons under the age of twenty one
(21) years; and to prevent speculation in licenses, and to permit the regulated
sale and use of alcoholic beverages in the Town with the least possible harmful
impact on the health, safety and welfare of the people.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise noted below, definitions used in this chapter shall be as
found in Wyoming Statutes section 12-1-101, as amended:
CLERK: The Town Clerk of the Town.
GOVERNING BODY: A majority of those present of the Mayor and Town Council of
the Town.
LICENSED LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business together with its
employees, merchandise, equipment and building structure, duly licensed by the
local licensing authority and the Wyoming Liquor Division to offer for sale
alcoholic beverages.
LIQUOR LICENSE: Any one of the following licenses as permitted and defined by
Wyoming Statutes title 12: retail, bar and grill, limited retail, resort or
restaurant license, or a microbrewery, winery, satellite winery or
manufacturing license.
LIQUOR LICENSEE: A licensee as defined by Wyoming Statutes section 12-1-101
(viii).
LIQUOR PERMIT: Any one of the one day permits permissible by Wyoming Statutes
title 12: catering, malt beverage, malt beverage - State Fair, open container
or additional dispensing room.
LIQUOR PERMITTEE: Any individual having been issued a one day permit while the
permit is in effect.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-3: STATE LAWS APPLICABLE:
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter, and all use, possession, sales
and purchases of alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all requirements,
regulations and limitations prescribed by the laws of the State relating to
alcoholic beverages, specifically Wyoming Statutes chapters 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7
of title 12, and are adopted by reference and amendments thereto, except as is
otherwise expressly set forth in this chapter. If this chapter is silent, then
State Statute is applicable. If there is a conflict between the State Statute
and this chapter, then the stricter will apply. The catchlines of the sections
of this chapter, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of
the sections, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections,
nor as any part of any section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they
be so deemed when any section, including its catchline, is reference to a State
Statute.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-4: LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall sell, offer for sale, traffic in or deliver for value, or in
any other way than purely gratuitously, any alcoholic or malt liquor in the
Town without a license or permit therefor.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND PERMIT; NEW AND TRANSFER:
   A.   Accurate information Required; Penalty: All applicants for any annual
liquor license or liquor permit shall provide accurate information in
conjunction with each application. Providing false information is declared to
be a violation of law and may result in penalties for the offending licensee
pursuant to section
 3-2-16 of this chapter.
   B.   Compliance With Statute: Applicants must comply with all provisions of
Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-102, 12-4-103, 12-4-104, 12-4-105 and 12-4-106,
as amended.
   C.   Information Required: Applicants for a new retail, limited retail,
restaurant, bar and grill, or resort licenses, or for a new microbrewery or
winery permit, or for the transfer of location of an existing license, with the
exception of a bar and grill license, which pursuant to Wyoming Statutes
section 12-4-413 may not be transferred, or a restaurant license, which
pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-409 may not be transferred to another
location, shall provide the Town Council, as part of the application, the
following information:
      1.   A map of the Town showing the proposed location and zoning of
location, a site plan of the proposed construction, a proposed floor plan and a
rendering or architect’s drawing of the front elevation, or if the building in
which the licensed room is located is in existence, a photograph of the
building, an existing and proposed site plan, and an existing and proposed
floor plan.
      2.   Each individual who owns ten percent (10%) or more of the licensed
premises/license shall provide, at the individual’s expense, a current copy of
a criminal background report as maintained by the Wyoming Bureau of
Investigation. The Town Council may consider the existence of felony
convictions when determining whether to issue a license, but is not required to
deny a license in such case.
   D.   Transferability:
      1.   When Permitted:
         a.   A person seeking to transfer a liquor license shall submit a new
application form and shall pay to the Town Clerk at the time the application is
filed a nonrefundable additional license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
After a public hearing and with the approval of the Town Council, a liquor
license may be transferred to a different premises, a different licensee, or
both. A transferred license shall expire on the same date as the original
license.
         b.   No license transfer shall be approved if the license is
suspended, or if proceedings to suspend or revoke the license are pending.
         c.   No license may be transferred unless the Town Council makes the
findings required herein and in Wyoming Statutes title 12.
         d.   The Town does not recognize any preference rights applicable to a
transfer of location, ownership, or both.
      2.   Unauthorized Transfer: Any transfer or sale of license not
authorized by Town Council or contrary to the Town Code is declared to be in
violation of law which may result in penalties issued to the offending licensee
pursuant to section
3-2-16 of this chapter.
   E.   Ownership Requirements: No person or entity may hold a license
hereunder in the interest of or for the benefit of another person or entity,
and the person or entity applying for the license must intend to be the true
and beneficial owner thereof and may not be acting for or on behalf of another
undisclosed person or entity. This provision is to be construed liberally so as
to prevent evasions and subterfuges of the intent of this chapter. The lawful
ownership of a liquor license at the time of enactment of this provision may be
continued even though the ownership does not conform to the requirements of
this subsection.
   F.   Commercial Lending Institutions: The Town Council may in its discretion
permit a commercial lending institution to have rights in more than one liquor
license if those rights were obtained pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code
and the institution holds the licenses for resale. No such institution may sell
alcoholic beverages under a license so held.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-6: RENEWAL APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND PERMIT:
   A.   License Application: Application shall include all information per
Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-102.
   B.   Certificates And Report: Upon application for a renewal liquor license,
a licensee shall submit to the Town Clerk proof of alcohol training
certification of the licensee and all managers and supervisory personnel, as
well as provide an annual report to the Town Clerk at the time of submittal of
the renewal application showing certified or dated completion of orientation
training of all nonsupervisory personnel.
   C.   Compliance with the provisions of an alcoholic liquor and malt beverage
review system, in addition to the requirements of State law and Town Code, will
be evaluated by the governing body during the annual liquor license renewal
process. Any violation or noncompliance of the provisions of the review system,
State law or Town Code regulations will be considered by the governing body in
its decision to renew, or not renew, an annual license.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-7: FEES:
   A.   Annual License Fees: The governing body of the Town is authorized to
issue the following annual licenses pursuant to State law and this chapter:
      1.   Each class or type of liquor license shall be issued at a uniform
fee for that class, not to be less than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) and subject to the maximum allowed by State Statute. Initial
license applications shall be charged the annual fee for that year or any
portion of the year, subject to a March 31 expiration date. Renewals shall be
uniform for all licenses in each class until the Town of Thayne determines a
more equitable method of assessing fees.
   B.   Refunds: No refund of all or any part of any license fee shall be made
at any time following the issuance of the license.
   C.   Publication Costs: Publication costs for a new, transfer or renewal
license shall be paid at the time of application for a liquor license and will
be based upon the actual cost of publishing, which the Town will determine
prior to publishing based upon the estimate provide by the Town’s designated
newspaper of local distribution.
   D.   Copy Of License: Any licensee who requests an additional official copy
of the current liquor license shall be assessed a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee at
the time the license is provided.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-8: TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Specified: Annual licenses shall be for a period of not more than one
year, expiring each year on March 31. Annual licenses shall be a personal
privilege of the licensee. Annual licenses may be renewed after application by
the licensee prior to the expiration and in accordance with a schedule
established pursuant to law and as provided by the Clerk to licensees.
   B.   Deceased Licensee: The executor or administrator of the estate of a
deceased licensee, when the estate consists in whole or in part of a business
selling alcoholic or malt beverages under an annual license issued by the Town,
may exercise the personal privilege of the deceased licensee under terms of the
license until the expiration date of the license. If the license of the
deceased licensee has not been transferred prior to the annual expiration date,
the governing body shall consider the license of the deceased licensee as an
unissued license.
3-2-9: TYPES OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
3-2-9-1: RETAIL LICENSES:
   A.   A retail liquor license is the authority under which a licensee is
permitted to sell alcoholic liquor or malt beverages for use or consumption but
not for resale, except as otherwise provided for by Wyoming Statutes section
12-4-201.
   B.   Retail liquor establishments offering premixed alcoholic drinks or
“slushies” shall be permitted. A “slushy” or other premixed alcoholic drink
that is to be removed from the premises for consumption shall be securely
sealed by the licensee or an agent of the licensee and placed in a tamperproof
transparent bag, which shall also be securely sealed prior to removal from the
premises, so that it is visibly apparent that it has not been tampered with. A
slushy which is resealed in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall not be deemed an open container under this chapter.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 12-4-201
3-2-9-2: RESTAURANT LICENSES:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: All applicants for a restaurant license, or
the renewal thereof, shall comply with all requirements of Wyoming Statutes
sections 12-4-407 and 12-7-408.
   B.   Menu; Hours Of Service: Applicants for new restaurant liquor licenses
shall provide the Town Clerk with a copy of the menu, or proposed menu, of all
food and beverage items for sale or proposed for sale during full food service
hours and a list of the hours or proposed hours of full food service for
weekdays and weekends.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-9-3: ONE DAY PERMITS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Permit Fees: The governing body is authorized to issue or recommend
denial of the following temporary permits pursuant to State law and this
chapter:
 
Catering permit                                                       $100.00
Malt beverage permit                                                  100.00
Additional dispensing room permit                                     100.00
Open container permit                                                 50.00
Applications for the above listed permits requiring a special meeting
of the governing body for approval; the governing body may, at its    250.00
discretion, waive the special meeting fee
 
      2.   Issuance: The governing body or designee may issue a one day permit
per the provisions in Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-502.
      3.   Hours: A one day permit may be issued for use between the hours of
six o’clock (6:00) A.M. to two o’clock (2:00) A.M. of the following day.
      4.   Posted Sign: When it is a condition of the issuance of a one day
permit, the permittee shall clearly post a sign notifying patrons that they
must be twenty one (21) years of age to enter the premises. The type of sign
and location for posting shall be as required by the Town. The failure to post
such sign shall not be used as a defense for violations of individuals under
the age of twenty one (21). Failure to post a sign as required in this
subsection is declared to be in violation of law.
      5.   Refunds: No refund of all or any part of a temporary license or
permit fee shall be made at any time following the issuance of the license.
      6.   One Day Permit In Conjunction With Special Events Permit: A person
or organization may make application for a one day liquor permit as approved by
the governing body. An applicant applying for a one day liquor permit in
conjunction with a special event while having a licensed premises located
within a jurisdiction other than the Town shall secure the written approval of
the licensing authority of that jurisdiction in which the licensed premises is
located prior to filing an application for a one day permit with the Town.
   B.   One Day Additional Dispensing Room Permit: A permit issued to any
licensee authorizing the sale of alcoholic or malt beverages in one additional
dispensing room in the same building licensed by the original liquor license.
No one licensee shall be issued more than six (6) such permits in any one
calendar year.
   C.   One Day Malt Beverage Permits: A permit issued to any responsible
person or organization authorizing the sale of malt beverages only for sales at
a picnic, bazaar, fair, rodeo, special holiday or similar public gathering.
      1.   No licensee holding a malt beverage permit for special events shall
sell or permit consumption of any malt beverage off the premises described in
the malt beverage permit for special events.
      2.   No person or organization shall receive more than a total of twelve
(12) such permits at the same premises in any one calendar year, except that
this limitation shall not be applicable to malt beverage permits issued for
sales at any fair, rodeo, pari-mutuel event or other similar public event
conducted by a public entity upon public premises.
   D.   One Day Catering Permits: A permit authorizing the sale of alcoholic
and malt beverages to any person holding a retail or resort retail liquor
license authorizing the off premises sale of both alcoholic and malt beverages,
for sale at special events such as meetings, conventions, private parties and
dinners or at other similar gatherings not capable of being held within the
licensee’s licensed premises.
      1.   No licensee holding a catering permit for special events shall sell
or permit consumption of any alcoholic or malt beverage off the premises
described in the catering permit for special events.
      2.   No person or organization shall receive more than a total of twenty
four (24) such permits for sales at the same premises in any one calendar year.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-10: OPEN CONTAINERS:
3-2-10-1: PRIVATE BUSINESS PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person to consume or carry in open containers alcoholic
liquor or malt beverages upon the private business premises of another without
permission of the owner or person in control of such premises.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-11: ALCOHOL SERVER CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
All licensees and all managers and supervisory personnel employed at any
licensed premises shall participate in and complete a Wyoming Liquor Division
approved Alcohol Server Training Program as established in Wyoming Statutes
sections 12-2-401 and 12-2-402, as amended. Such training shall be provided
within three (3) months of obtaining any new or transfer liquor license, or any
renewal annual liquor license; or within three (3) months of accepting
employment as a manager or supervisor. Unless otherwise trained through the
certified State training program above, nonsupervisory employees shall receive
alcohol server training from those persons so trained at the time of employment
and at least annually during the term of employment.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-12: ETHYL ALCOHOL; USES EXEMPT:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to ethyl alcohol intended for
use or used for the following purposes:
   A.   Scientific, chemical, mechanical, industrial, medicinal and culinary
purposes;
   B.   By those authorized to procure ethyl alcohol tax free, as provided by
the acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder;
   C.   The manufacturer of denatured alcohol produced and used as provided by
the acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder;
   D.   The manufacture of patented, patent, proprietary, medicinal,
pharmaceutical, antiseptic, toilet, scientific, chemical, mechanical and
industrial preparations or products, unfit for beverage purposes;
   E.   The manufacture of flavoring extracts and syrups, unfit for beverage
purposes.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-13: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: Licensees may open the dispensing room at six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. and shall close the dispensing room and cease the sale of
both alcoholic and malt beverages promptly at the hour of two o’clock (2:00)
A.M. the following day. In addition, licensees shall clear the dispensing room
of all persons other than employees by two thirty o’clock (2:30) A.M.
   B.   Dispensing Room Restrictions; Minors: Except as provided in this
chapter, no licensee or agent, employee or server thereof shall knowingly
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to enter or remain in
the licensed room or rooms where alcoholic or malt beverages are dispensed. No
person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall enter or remain in the
licensed room or rooms where alcoholic beverages are sold unless:
      1.   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who is at least twenty
one (21) years of age and the licensed room is for the sale of alcoholic or
malt beverages for off premises consumption and separate from any licensed room
for on premises consumption;
      2.   As expressly authorized by Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-410(b), as
amended.
      3.   This section does not apply to a person under the age of twenty one
(21) years if the underage person is in a dining or waiting area of the
dispensing room with an adult not later than ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. As used
in this chapter, “adult” is defined as a person twenty one (21) years of age
who is the parent or legal guardian of the person under the age of twenty one
(21), and “dining or waiting area” means a specifically delineated area which
has been submitted with the licensee’s application and has been approved by the
governing body.
   C.   Gambling On Licensed Premises: No person shall gamble and no licensee
(including the licensee’s employees and agents) shall permit gambling in any
room licensed under this chapter. “Gambling”, for the purposes of this
subsection, is defined per Wyoming Statute section 6-7-101 et seq. A licensee
who permits gambling on a licensed premise contrary to the State Statute is
declared to be in violation of law.
   D.   Corked Wine: A restaurant or bar and grill licensee may permit a patron
to remove one unsealed bottle of wine for off premises consumption; provided,
that the patron has purchased a full course meal and consumed a portion of the
bottle of wine with the meal on the premises. For purposes of this subsection,
the term “full course meal” shall mean a diversified selection of food which is
ordinarily consumed with the use of tableware and cannot conveniently be
consumed while standing or walking. A partially consumed bottle of wine that is
to be removed from the premises shall be securely sealed by the licensee or an
agent of the licensee and placed in a tamperproof transparent bag which shall
also be securely sealed prior to removal from the premises, so that it is
visibly apparent that the resealed bottle of wine has not been tampered with.
The licensee or agent of the licensee shall provide a dated receipt for the
bottle of wine to the patron. Wine which is resealed in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection shall not be deemed an open container under this
chapter.
   E.   Occupancy Loads:
      1.   Signage: Occupancy loads, as determined by the Wyoming State Fire
Marshal or designee, must be clearly posted via a sign to be provided by the
applicant and posted in a location as required by the Fire Marshal or designee.
A licensee who fails to post a sign as to the occupancy load of the licensed
premises and as required under this subsection within fourteen (14) days of the
effective date hereof, is declared to be in violation of law.
      2.   Habitual Violation Of Occupancy Limits: A licensee who has a
subsequent conviction under section
3-2-16 of this chapter, within a twelve (12) month period, of the occupancy
limits set by the State Fire Marshal is declared to be in violation of law.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-14: BOTTLE CLUBS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a bottle club in the Town. As used in
this chapter, “bottle club” is defined as an operation or enterprise in which
no alcoholic liquor or malt beverages are sold, but where food, soft drinks and
mixes are sold, and the safekeeping of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages is
provided for individual club members who bring alcoholic liquor or malt
beverages upon the premises for their own use and consumption. Income, profits
or fees of the operator of a bottle club are typically derived from sales for
furnishing of mixes, ice, food or glasses, or from dues, charges,
contributions, membership cards or assessments.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-15: RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION:
   A.   Entry Authorized: In addition to all other rights of inspection which
the Town Mayor or hereafter possess, the Town Clerk, Administrative Official,
Chief of Police or State Fire Marshal, or their designee(s), are empowered to
enter and inspect every place of business which is licensed by the Town to sell
malt or alcoholic beverages or where malt or alcoholic beverages are sold,
stored, or kept for the purpose of sale pursuant to a Town liquor license.
   B.   Entry Regulations: Entry for purposes of inspection pursuant to this
section is authorized only during open business hours unless it is in the
presence of the licensee or his agent, employee, representative, or unless the
person making entry does so under court order, or the person making entry has
reasonable grounds to believe that evidence of a violation of this chapter is
within the place to be entered and emergency or exigent circumstances exist
such that a warrantless search is allowed by law.
   C.   Purpose Of Inspection: The purpose of the inspection authorized by this
section shall be to ascertain if the business to be inspected and its operation
is in compliance with this chapter and Wyoming Statutes title 12, or other laws
applicable to businesses selling, storing, keeping malt or alcoholic beverages
under license issued by the Town.
   D.   Refusal To Permit Entry: A refusal to permit entry or inspection
contrary to this section is declared to be in violation of law and this may
result in penalties for offending licensee pursuant to section
3-2-16 of this chapter.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-16: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Purpose: The Town, by enactment of this chapter, states that it is the
public policy of the Town to balance the interest of its citizens and visitors
to the Town against the interest of the liquor licensee in operating and
maintaining their business activities upon a licensed liquor establishment
premises. If the licensee fails to adhere to certain minimum standards, or
fails to abide by this chapter or applicable law of the State, the liquor
licensee shall be subject to the provisions herein. To provide for an orderly
administration of this chapter, and the maintenance of existing liquor licenses
or permits, the Town establishes a system for suspension and/or revocation of a
liquor license or permit. Violations of this chapter by any licensee or
employee or agent of a liquor licensee, while acting in the service of the
licensee, shall be imputed to the licensee for the purposes of this section.
   B.   Compliance Required: All liquor licensees, their agents and employees
must conduct the licensed liquor premises in compliance with:
      1.   Provisions of the laws of Wyoming related to liquor;
      2.   Town ordinances related to liquor.
   C.   Grounds For Suspension, Revocation: Proof of violation by a licensee or
the licensee’s agent or employee of any of the provisions in subsection B of
this section is sufficient grounds for suspension or recommendation of
revocation of the license and licensees and permittees may be reprimanded or
assessed a civil penalty at the discretion of the Town Council.
   D.   Progressive Penalties: The Town shall impose progressive penalties for
multiple violations of any laws, ordinances and rules within the preceding
three (3) year period as specified, unless mitigating circumstances indicate
the penalty should be reduced, or aggravating circumstances indicate the
penalty should be increased. The Town shall consider the licensee’s prior
violation history, the licensee’s good faith effort to prevent a violation, and
the existence of written policies governing the licensee’s employee conduct as
mitigating circumstances before taking an action against a licensee who is not
in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   E.   Violation Chart: Violations include, but are not limited to, those
listed on the following chart:
   VIOLATION CHART
Type Of Violation Code
Type Of Violation                   Code
Making a false statement on a
liquor license or one day liquor    WS § 12-4-102
permit application
Failure to notify Town of changes
in application information for      WS § 12-4-1023
liquor license or one day liquor
permit
Sale or transfer of liquor license  WS § 12-4-601(a)
without permission of Town
Sales or dispensing after hours     WS § 12-5-101
Open after hours                    WS § 12-5-101
Refusal to permit entry or          WS § 12-5-201(a)
inspection
Drive-in area conditions            WS § 12-5-301
Sale of alcoholic liquor or malt    WS § 12-6-101
beverage to underage person
Minors in dispensing room           WS § 12-5-201(a)
Failure to post sign indicating you
must be 21 years of age to enter    DMC § 5-16-103(D)
premises for one day liquor permits
Limited retail liquor license:
selling alcoholic liquor or malt
beverages to nonmembers unless they WS § 12-4-301(c)
are an accompanied guest of a
member
Failure to pay sales tax            WS § 12-7-103
All liquor licenses other than full
retail: selling alcoholic liquor or WS § 12-4-410; WS § 12-5-201(e), (h) and
malt beverages for consumption off  (j)
premises
Sale to an intoxicated person via a WS § 12-5-301(v)
drive-in area
Allowing over occupancy of licensed DMC § 5-16-030(O)
premises
Habitual violation of allowing over DMC § 5-16-030(P)
occupancy
Habitual violations of parking
laws, including parking in          DMC title 10
alleyways and no parking areas
Manufacturing, rectifying or sale
of alcoholic beverages without a    WS § 12-8-102
license or permit
 
   F.   Notification Of Licensee Of Liquor Violation:
      1.   Municipal Court: Not later than thirty (30) days following
disposition of a charge which results in a conviction for a liquor violation of
subsection E of this section in Municipal Court, the Court shall report the
following information to the Town Clerk:
         a.   The fact that a licensee permittee, or employees and/or agents of
a licensee or permittee have been convicted of a violation of the Town Code as
described in subsection E, Violation Chart, of this section;
         b.   The date of the alleged violation; and
         c.   Whether the Municipal Court disposition has been appealed. For
purposes of this section, a conviction includes a finding of guilt after trial,
a plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing Before Town Council: Upon receipt by the Clerk of
a notice from the State issued pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 12-2-306,
as amended, and/or such information from the Municipal Court, the Clerk shall
notify the licensee of alcoholic beverage violation and a hearing may be set
before the Town Council. The certified notice from the State and all evidence
presented to the State in support of the certified notice and order of
conviction from Municipal Court will be admitted and considered prima facie
evidence of the liquor licensee’s sales tax delinquency or conviction of
Municipal ordinance on liquor. The purpose of the hearing is to allow the
licensee to offer corrections to the information; and action taken by liquor
licensee to mitigate the violation and for the Town Council to determine
whether the liquor licensee should face restrictions or suspension of license.
Notice of such violation shall be served by regular mail to the address of the
licensee listed on the licensee’s most recent liquor license application to the
Town, and shall include a statement:
         a.   That the Town received a notice for failure to pay sales tax or a
criminal violation described in subsection D of this section has occurred and
that a fine, suspension and/or revocation of the licensee’s license is
possible;
         b.   Summarizing the nature and date(s) of the incidents resulting in
the conviction and notice for failure to pay sales tax;
   G.   Hearing Before Town Council: The hearing before the Town Council shall
be conducted under the Wyoming Administrative Procedures Act, Wyoming Statutes
section 16-3-101 et seq., and rules adopted by the governing body.
   H.   Penalties: Following the hearing described in this section, and based
upon the information considered and received at such hearing, Town Council may:
      1.   Issue a written warning and/or mitigation plan of the violation by
licensee; or
      2.   Order a fine and/or suspension of license: the suspension of the
license shall remain in effect until the Town Council lifts the suspension, a
court of competent jurisdiction lifts the suspension, or the Clerk receives
notice from the State that the sales tax liability has been satisfied.
Penalties provided in this section are based on the violations of ordinances
outlined in subsection E of this section against a licensee within a three (3)
year period beginning the first day of April through the last day of March of
each year. Any convictions of ordinances outlined in subsection E of this
section during this period of time involving the same licensed liquor premises
may be used by the Town Council to determine a gross violation and suspension
or recommend revocation of licensee’s license. See 1-4-1 for fine amount.
   I.   Revocation: If it appears to the Town Council that a liquor license
should be revoked, the Town Council may authorize the Town Attorney to prepare
and file with the District Court a petition to revoke the licensee’s license.
If a license is revoked, except as provided in Wyoming Statutes section 12-7-
201(d) concerning the expiration of a license while a revocation order is under
appeal, the liquor licensee of such revoked license shall not be eligible to
apply for a new liquor license for a period of twelve (12) months from the date
of revocation. In the event a suspension occurs, the Clerk shall send by
certified mail one copy of each of the suspension notices to the last known
address of the liquor licensee and to the Director of the Wyoming Department of
Revenue. Additionally, the Clerk shall post one copy of the suspension notice
on the liquor license or permitted premises. Immediately upon the posting of
the suspension notice, the sale, offering to sell, distribution or traffic of
liquor or malt beverages is unlawful. Further, the licensee shall either remove
all of the alcoholic liquor and malt beverages from the licensed premises or
secure the alcoholic liquor and malt beverages in a manner approved in writing
by the Chief of Police or his designee.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
3-2-17: APPEAL:
Action by Town Council suspending a liquor license of a licensee shall be
subject to review in the District Court upon exhaustion of administrative
appeals in accordance with the procedural rules heretofore or hereinafter
adopted by the Wyoming Supreme Court concerning the review of administrative
actions. Filing an appeal as provided in such rules, stays enforcement of the
suspension decision pending final order on the appeal.
(Ord. 319, 8-18-2016)
ARTICLE A: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE USE ON TOWN PROPERTY
Section
3-2A-1: Purpose
3-2A-2: Definitions
3-2A-3: Permit Procedures
3-2A-4: Official Action On Permit
3-2A-5: Restrictions
3-2A-6: Penalties
3-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to control the use and possession of alcoholic
and malt beverages on Town property and to preserve the privilege of
responsible persons to use and possess alcoholic beverages on Town property in
a reasonable fashion to assure the safety of the public and the protection of
property.
(Ord. 278, 3-21-2013)
3-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any spirituous or fermented fluid, substance or compound
other than malt beverage intended for beverage purposes that contains at least
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume.
CONTAINER: Any glass, bottle, metal can, animal skin bag, or any other device
of a nonporous or semiporous nature able to be used to hold liquids.
MALT BEVERAGE: Any fluid, substance or compound intended for beverage purposes
manufactured from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor,
containing at least one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume.
OPEN CONTAINER: A container other than one with an unbroken seal or no longer
containing a vacuum or pressure obtained during original bottling by a licensed
bottler.
POSSESSION: Having in hand or on person, within immediate control, or
relatively accessible for use.
TOWN PROPERTY: Any street, highway, sidewalk, park, building, or any other
place owned by, or under the authority and control of the Town.
(Ord. 278, 3-21-2013)
3-2A-3: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: A person, either on his own behalf or on behalf of a group
of persons, or an organization, wishing to possess any malt or alcoholic
beverage while on Town property shall file with the Town Clerk an application
on file in the Town office. An application may be obtained during working hours
from the Town Clerk’s Office.
   B.   Submittal: Any applicant seeking a permit shall complete the
application and submit the same to the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 278, 3-21-2013)
3-2A-4: OFFICIAL ACTION ON PERMIT:
   A.   Review: The Town Clerk shall forward the application to the Mayor for
his review to determine whether such permit complies with the Town rules and
regulations. The Mayor shall have five (5) workdays after receipt of the
application to complete his review and to approve or disapprove the
application. If the Mayor fails to respond in the five (5) day period, then the
application shall be deemed granted, subject to whatever terms were contained
in the application.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit: If the Mayor determines that the application
complies with the Town rules and regulations, the Mayor shall authorize the
Town Clerk to issue a permit.
   C.   Denial: If the Mayor determines that the application does not comply
with the Town rules and regulations, the Mayor shall instruct the Town Clerk to
deny the permit and provide to the applicant at the time of notification of
disapproval of the application and denial of a permit written reasons for the
disapproval and denial.
   D.   Appeal: A person or organization may appeal the disapproval of an
application and the denial of permit to the Town Council. Any such appeal must
be made in writing not more than (5) days after receipt of the Town’s written
reasons for the disapproval and denial.
(Ord. 278, 3-21-2013)
3-2A-5: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall have in their possession an open
container containing any malt or alcoholic beverages while on Town property or
in any vehicle located on Town property unless a permit has been issued
specifically authorizing the possession of malt or alcohol beverages on Town
property.
   B.   Right Of Town To Issue: The Town reserves unto itself the right to
issue permits for the sale, consumption or possession of malt or alcoholic
beverages on Town property on a case by case basis.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: Rules and regulations for the sale, consumption,
or possession of malt and alcoholic beverages on Town property are as follows:
      1.   Once issued by the Town Clerk, a permit shall not be transferrable
to any third party.
      2.   Permits shall be issued for a specified period of time not to exceed
twenty four (24) hours and for a specific event or activity. No permits will be
issued that will be open ended or not confined to a specific time period.
      3.   Pursuant to Wyoming law, a malt beverage permit may be issued to any
reasonable person or organization for sales of malt beverages at a picnic,
bazaar, fair, rodeo, special holiday or similar public gathering (Wyoming
Statutes section 12-4-502(a)).
      4.   Pursuant to Wyoming law, a malt or alcoholic beverage permit maybe
issued as a catering permit to any person holding a retail or resort retail
liquor license authorizing the off premises sale of both malt and alcoholic
beverages, for sales at meetings, conventions, private parties and dinners or
similar gatherings not capable of being held within the licensee’s licensed
premises (Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-502(b)).
      5.   No person or organization shall receive more than twelve (12) malt
beverage permits and twenty four (24) catering permits for sales at the same
location in any one year (Wyoming Statutes section 12-4-502(c)).
      6.   An Applicant requesting a permit shall be required to execute a
waiver of liability and a hold harmless agreement in favor of the Town on file
in the Town office. The original waiver of liability and hold harmless
agreement shall be retained by the Town Clerk and a copy shall be given to the
applicant. It shall be within the discretion of the Town as to whether or not a
policy of liability insurance will be required from the applicant for the event
in question.
      7.   An applicant may be required to hire off duty law enforcement
officers for security during the event. The number of security officers
required, if any, shall be determined by the Mayor.
      8.   Anyone obtaining a permit shall not allow attendees at the event to
bring malt or alcoholic beverages onto the premises or to take malt or
alcoholic beverages from the premises; provided, however, this shall not
prevent closed container items sold at an auction for the benefit of a
nonprofit organization to be taken off premises.
      9.   The holder of a permit must post signs at all exits to and from the
Town property for which a permit issued stating that no alcoholic beverages may
be brought in or taken from that property during the event.
      10.   The holder of a permit shall be responsible for furnishing
sufficient waste containers for disposal of nonreusable malt and alcoholic
beverage containers.
      11.   If a permit is issued for events to take place at a Town park or on
any athletic field, then in such event, no glass containers of malt or
alcoholic beverages shall be permitted at such locations. No permits will be
issued to any applicant for the sale or consumption of malt or alcoholic
beverages on any athletic field when any youth sport events are in session.
      12.   It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the permit to
comply with all Wyoming liquor laws and regulations and all other ordinances or
State laws affecting the sale and consumption of malt and alcoholic beverages.
      13.   Under no circumstances shall the holder of a permit allow the sale
to or consumption of malt or alcoholic beverages by obviously intoxicated
individuals or minors.
      14.   In addition to the requirements specifically set forth herein, an
applicant must agree to abide by all rules and regulations currently in force
and affecting the use of Town property.
      15.   Failure of the holder of a permit to abide by any of the rules and
regulations set forth herein, or any other rules and regulations endorsed or
enforced pursuant to the ordinances of the Town, shall result in the immediate
revocation of any permit granted by the Town.
      16.   The applicant, by his signature on the application, acknowledges
having received a copy of the Town rules and regulations and further
acknowledges his full and complete understanding thereof.
17. Upon the granting of a permit pursuant to these policies, the holder of a
permit shall be required to pay as a fee to the Town Clerk (see section
3-2-9-3).
      18.   The Town reserves the right to impose any other terms and
conditions upon an applicant that it deems necessary in order to protect the
property of the Town and the best interest and welfare of Town residents. The
Town also reserves the right to, from time to time, amend, waive enforcement,
or otherwise suspend the application of one or more of these rules, as the need
may arise. A waiver or suspension of any of these rules for the benefit of a
particular applicant, shall not constitute grounds for or be construed as a
waiver or suspension of the same rules for subsequent applicants. By submitting
and application, an applicant agrees to be bound by all rules and regulations
set forth herein and any other conditions that may be imposed upon the issuance
of a permit by the Town.
      19.   The Mayor or the Town Council may amend or revoke a permit at any
time if it appears that the terms of the permit will no longer prevent injury
to persons or property due to a change in the circumstances under which the
permit was granted.
(Ord. 278, 3-21-2013)
3-2A-6: PENALTIES:
A person who has in his or possession an open container containing any malt or
alcoholic beverage while on Town property without a permit specifically
authorizing such possession or who violates a term or condition of a permit
issued under this article shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 278, 3-21-2013)
TITLE 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
ABANDONED AND DERELICT VEHICLES   1
OPEN BURNING   2
CHAPTER 1: ABANDONED AND DERELICT VEHICLES
Section
4-1-1: Authority
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Declared Health And Safety Hazard
4-1-4: Storage Prohibited On Public Property
4-1-5: Removal Of Abandoned Or Derelict Vehicles
4-1-6: Notice Of Intent To Impound
4-1-7: Title To Impounded Vehicles
4-1-8: Notice Of Removal
4-1-9: Suspension Of Impounded Procedure
4-1-10: Redemption
4-1-11: Disposition Of Impounded Vehicles
4-1-12: Certificate Of Sale
4-1-13: Nonliability
4-1-14: Penalty
4-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section
15-1-103(a)(xix), 15-1-103(a)(xli), 15-1-103(a)(xliv) and 31-13-101 et seq.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   A vehicle is presumed to be abandoned if the vehicle is left unattended
on public street, highway, alley, parking lot, or other public property within
the jurisdictional limits of the Town of Thayne for more than twenty four (24)
hours after a notice of intent to impound has been placed on it, pursuant to
section
4-1-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Notwithstanding any provisions of law to the contrary, any vehicle left
unattended on private property for thirty (30) days, without consent of the
property owner or after the expiration of the consent, oral or written, of the
owner or the person in lawful possession or control of the private property, is
presumed abandoned five (5) days after a notice of intent to impound has been
placed on it pursuant to sections
4-1-5 and
4-1-6 of this chapter.
DERELICT VEHICLES: A vehicle, or parts thereof, as defined in this section,
shall be deemed to be derelict if the vehicle is:
   A.   Inoperable to the extent that it is unable to perform its original,
intended function and not currently registered; or
   B.   Partially or wholly dismantled; or
   C.   Wrecked to the extent that it prevents legal operation; or
   D.   Junked or intended to be recycled or scrapped.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Public streets, alleys, highways, parking lots or other public
property, or such properties as may be in public ownership or with the right of
use and shall include the entire extent of the property to the edges of the
rights-of-way or property boundaries.
UNSHELTERED: Located outside of a secure building in such a manner as to be
visible to a person on public property or adjoining private property, or which
affords ready access to such vehicles by children.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excluding devices moved by human power,
and pedestrian vehicles operated by a person who, by reason of a physical
disability is otherwise unable to move about as a pedestrian.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-3: DECLARED HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARD:
The Town Council finds that for purposes of this chapter, any abandoned or
derelict vehicle remaining on public property is declared to be a health and
safety hazard within the community and is subject to removal and disposition as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-4: STORAGE PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Owner Responsible: It is the responsibility of the owner of any
vehicle, which is left or abandoned on any public property to remove such,
including all associated costs thereof.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   A vehicle that is enclosed in a secured building or stored behind a
view proof and secure fence of a least six feet (6') in height; or one vehicle
per premises, covered by a fitted vehicle cover, which said fitted vehicle
cover shall be kept in a state of good repair;
      2.   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, and necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise;
      3.   A vehicle in an appropriate storage or depository facility
maintained in a lawful place and manner by a governmental agency;
      4.   An antique or historic motor vehicle, as defined by Wyoming Statutes
section 31-1-101(a)(xv)(A), which is licensed as provided by law;
      5.   Persons licensed in accordance with Wyoming Statutes section 31-13-
112.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-5: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR DERELICT VEHICLES:
   A.   Public Property: Any abandoned or derelict vehicle may be removed from
public property by the Town upon expiration of the twenty four (24) hour
requirement of the notice of intent to impound specified in section
4-1-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Private Property: An abandoned vehicle may be removed from private
property upon the written request of the owner of the property of the person in
lawful control thereof, together with a signed statement that such vehicle has
been placed thereon without his consent.
   C.   Conditions For Removal From Private Property: A derelict vehicle kept
on private property in violation of the provision of this chapter, may be
removed by the Town after the following conditions have been satisfied:
      1.   Notice of the violation has been sent to the owner or the legal
possessor of the vehicles by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, at the last known address as determined from the vehicle
registration records from the State.
      2.   Not less than thirty (30) days have passed without the vehicle being
removed from an unsheltered area.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-6: NOTICE OF INTENT TO IMPOUND:
   A.   Placement: A notice of intent to impound a vehicle shall be securely
placed in a prominent place on the vehicle at such time as it is reasonably
determined by the Town that the vehicle is abandoned.
   B.   Conditions: In the event the vehicle is reasonably determined to be
derelict, a notice of intent to impound shall be posted when the following
conditions have been satisfied:
      1.   The thirty (30) day notice, as required by subsection
4-1-5C of this chapter, to the owner of the property has expired; or
      2.   The vehicle has remained unmoved on public property for five (5)
days and no action has been taken by any person to bring the vehicle into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Posted Prior To Removal: Posted notice of intent to impound shall be
placed upon the vehicle not less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the time
the vehicle is removed.
   D.   Information Required: The notice of intent to impound shall contain not
less than the following information:
      1.   The date and time the notice was posted on the vehicle;
      2.   The fact that after the expiration of twenty four (24) hours after
the time of posting of the notice, that the Town intends to remove the vehicle;
and
      3.   The address and telephone number of the Town agency which can be
contacted to prevent the removal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-7: TITLE TO IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
Title to any impounded vehicle not reclaimed by the registered owner or any
lien holder within thirty (30) days of the date of the report required by
section
4-1-6 of this chapter shall vest in the Town. A change in the title may be
obtained by the Town pursuant to the authority of this chapter and the
procedure established in State Statutes to obtain the change in title.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-8: NOTICE OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Report Of Removal: Upon removal of any vehicle by the Town, a written
report of the removal shall be sent to the last known address of the owner, if
known. Otherwise such notice shall be sent to the Wyoming Department of Revenue
and Taxation. The report shall include a description of the vehicle, the date,
time and place of the removal, the grounds for removal, and the place of
impoundment of the vehicle.
   B.   Proof Of Report: The proof of providing the report shall be made by the
certificate of any Town employee involved in the impoundment of the vehicle,
specifying the person to whom the report was directed and the date and the
manner in which the report was provided.
   C.   Exception For Specific Value: Such report shall not be required if the
retail value of the vehicle is less than six hundred dollars ($600.00) as
reasonably determined by the Chief of Police or his designee.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-9: SUSPENSION OF IMPOUND PROCEDURE:
In the event that the registered owner, any lienholder, or authorized agent of
the owner contacts the Town department specified on the notice of intent to
impound and indicates that the vehicle shall be brought into compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable law, the Town shall suspend
the removal of the vehicle for not less than twenty four (24) hours in order to
obtain written assurances, from the owner or agent, that the vehicle will be
brought into compliance within a specified period of time. If the vehicle is
brought into compliance with the requirements of this chapter, then the impound
procedure shall be terminated. If the owner, however, fails to bring the
vehicle into compliance within the specified time period, then the Town may
complete the removal of the vehicle without beginning the process anew.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-10: REDEMPTION:
The owner or lienholder, after producing satisfactory proof of ownership or the
right to possession to the Town, may redeem a vehicle in impound by paying the
charges for towing, storage, notice, other costs of impoundment, and any
penalty imposed by this chapter. In addition to the payment of the costs of
impoundment as herein specified, the owner shall be required to provide a
written assurance to the Town that the vehicle will be made to comply with the
provisions of this chapter in the future.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-11: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
   A.   Public Auction: Any vehicle which is impounded and has a retail value
of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) or more, may, after thirty (30) days have
elapsed from the date notice was given as provided in section
4-1-6 of this chapter, be sold by the Chief of Police, together with any
contents contained therein, if any, at public auction to the highest bidder.
   B.   Notice Of Sale: Notice of sale shall be published once in a newspaper
of general circulation within the county where the vehicle was impounded, not
less than ten (10) days preceding the date of sale, giving a full description
of the vehicle, together with the engine or serial numbers or marks, if any,
and the amount of money claimed to be due thereon, and the time and place of
the sale.
   C.   Expenses: All expenses incident to the sale and storage of the vehicle
shall be first paid from the receipts of the sale and the Chief of Police shall
pay any residue to the Town Treasurer for credit to the General Fund.
   D.   No Claim By Former Owner: After any vehicle has been sold under this
section, the former owner or person entitled to possession has no further
right, title, claim or interest in or to the vehicle itself or contents, if
any.
   E.   Disposal Of Impounded Vehicles Not Sold: As to any other impounded
vehicle not sold as otherwise provided by this section, all such vehicles shall
be disposed of by contract or auction to a person licensed to the provisions of
Wyoming Statutes section 31-13-112 or, if the Chief of Police is unable to
dispose of the same by contract or auction, the same shall be hauled to the
landfill.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-12: CERTIFICATE OF SALE:
   A.   Certificate Of Sale: When any vehicle is sold, the Chief of Police at
the time of payment of the purchase price shall execute a certificate of sale
in duplicate. The original certificate of sale shall be delivered to the
purchaser and a copy shall be retained by the Chief. The certificate of sale
shall contain the name and address of the purchaser, the date of sale, the
consideration paid, a description of the vehicle, and a stipulation that no
warranty is made as to the condition or title of the vehicle.
   B.   Certificate Of Title: Purchaser, upon presentation of the certificate
of sale to the County Clerk orally of the counties of Wyoming and the payment
of fees required by law, is entitled to be issued a certificate of title and
registration card for the vehicle.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-13: NONLIABILITY:
If any vehicle is removed from any highway, street, alley, or public or private
property as provided for in this chapter, the owner of the vehicle may not
institute in any State court, a suit in law or equity against any police
officer or his agent, or the Town, for the recovery of the value of any item in
or on the vehicle that may be lost, stolen or damaged resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
4-1-14: PENALTY:
Every person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties imposed by the general penalty provisions provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 220, 10-13-2000)
CHAPTER 2: OPEN BURNING
Section
4-2-1: Prohibited Burning; Exceptions
4-2-1: PROHIBITED BURNING; EXCEPTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to burn household garbage in the open air within
the bounds of the Town. The burning of fields in agricultural zones or leaf and
grass rakings may be burned, unless the governing body may, by separate
resolution, prohibit. Provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to
controlled burning of buildings and the burning of weeds and refuse in vacant
lots under the supervision of the Fire Chief. The town adheres to Lincoln
County fire restrictions.
(Ord. 221, 5-23-2001)
TITLE 5: PUBLIC SAFETY
POLICE DEPARTMENT   1
FIRE DEPARTMENT   2
VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE SERVICE   3
FIRE ZONES   4
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS   5
ANIMAL CONTROL   6
OFFENSES   7
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
5-1-1: Established; Composition
5-1-2: Temporary Road Blocks
5-1-3: Police Service Contract
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxxiv)
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a Police Department for the Municipality to be
composed of a Chief of Police and such number of subordinate police officers of
such rank as the governing body shall, from time to time, determine.
(1982 Code § 7.01.010)
5-1-2: TEMPORARY ROAD BLOCKS:
   A.   Defined: For the purpose of this section, a “temporary road block”
means any device or means used by duly authorized law enforcement officers of
the Police Department for the purpose of controlling all traffic through a
point on any street, thoroughfare, roadway or highway within the Municipality
whereby all vehicles may be slowed or stopped for the purposes enumerated in
subsection C of this section.
(1982 Code § 7.01.020)
   B.   Authority To Establish: The members of the Police Department of the
Municipality are hereby authorized to establish temporary road blocks upon the
streets and highways of the Municipality for the purpose of apprehending
persons reasonably believed by the officers to be wanted for violation of the
laws of this State, any other state or the United States and using any such
street or highway.
(1982 Code § 7.01.030)
   C.   Minimum Requirements: For the purpose of warning and protecting the
traveling public, the minimum requirements to be met by police officers
establishing temporary road blocks, if time and circumstances allow, shall be
as follows:
      1.   The temporary road block must be established at a point on the
highway or street clearly visible at a distance of not less than two hundred
(200) yards in either direction;
      2.   At the point of the temporary road block, flashing warning lights
shall be visible to oncoming traffic for a distance of not less than two
hundred (200) yards. The emergency warning lights on a marked law enforcement
vehicle shall suffice; and
      3.   At least one person working a law enforcement road block shall be in
uniform and visible, and at least one vehicle used in a law enforcement road
block shall be clearly marked as a law enforcement vehicle.
(1982 Code § 7.01.040)
   D.   Failure To Stop: It shall be unlawful for any person to proceed or
travel through or past a temporary road block without subjecting himself to the
traffic control so established.
(1982 Code § 7.01.050)
5-1-3: POLICE SERVICE CONTRACT:
Town has ability to contract with County Sheriff’s office for police coverage
in the Town.
(Ord. 385, - -2023)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
5-2-1: Creation
5-2-2: Fire Chief
5-2-3: Officers
5-2-4: Volunteer Firefighters
5-2-5: List Of Members
5-2-6: Duties Of Officers And Members
5-2-7: Police Authority And Right Of Entry
5-2-8: Compliance With Orders Of Inspector
5-2-9: Evacuation; Demolition; Entry Authorized
5-2-10: Records, Reports And Inspections
5-2-11: Records And Reports Of Activities
5-2-12: Funding And Expenditures
5-2-13: Prohibited Acts And Activities
5-2-14: Cooperation Of Water Department
5-2-15: Hazardous And Dangerous Conditions
5-2-16: Fire Protection By Others
5-2-17: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxiii)
5-2-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created and established a volunteer Fire Department, which
shall prevent and extinguish fires, educate the public in all matters
pertaining to fires and fire prevention, care for all firefighting apparatus
and other Municipal property in its charge, and perform such additional duties
as may be assigned to it by resolution or ordinance of the Town Council.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment; Oath, Bond: The Fire Chief, after election by members of
the Fire Department, shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
Town Council. The Fire Chief shall hold office until at the will and discretion
of the Mayor, or until his successor has been duly appointed. The Chief of the
Fire Department shall take and subscribe to an official oath to be the same as
the oath taken by other officers of the Town, except for additions and/or
alterations as may be obviously necessary or desirable to render the oath
suitable and adaptable to the intent of such officer, and which may be
authorized by the Town Council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Chief of the Fire Department shall be
responsible for the discipline, good order and proper conduct of the entire
department, and for the enforcement of all ordinances and regulations
pertaining to it. He shall be responsible for the proper care of the houses,
fire apparatus, and all other property of the department in its charge. He
shall have command and control over all officers and members of the department
and all houses, fire apparatus and other property of the department or in its
charge, and he likewise shall have control of all persons present at fires.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-3: OFFICERS:
The Fire Chief may appoint and prescribe the duties of such other Fire
Department officers as may be deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the
Town Council.
5-2-4: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Members: In addition to the Fire Chief and officers of the Fire
Department, there shall be auxiliary firefighters who may be referred to as
volunteer firefighters. There shall be such number of positions as are from
time to time approved by the Town Council.
   B.   Appointment: No person shall be accepted to the position of volunteer
firefighter until he has taken a training course prescribed by the Fire Chief,
and passed an examination indicating adequate knowledge of the matters taught
in the course. Such test shall be prescribed by the Fire Chief, and matters
covered shall include methods of firefighting, types of building, operation of
equipment, first aid and such other relevant items as shall be directed by the
Fire Chief. In the case of any individual who had prior experience as a
firefighter on a volunteer fire department or on a full time fire department,
the Chief may waive any part of the course, but the applicant shall take the
test.
   C.   Required In Service Training: Each volunteer firefighter shall take
regular training at least once each month, on the subjects prescribed and in
the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. The Chief shall require a minimum
number of hours of training each month for each member. The minimum number of
hours shall be the amount required, in the opinion of the Chief, to learn new
techniques and to continue to maintain skills under old techniques.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-5: LIST OF MEMBERS:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall maintain in the Office of the Town
Clerk, an accurate list of the members of the Fire Department and shall report
promptly any additions or withdrawals from the membership and shall include an
updated copy of every volunteer firefighters driver’s license, certificate of
training and current CPR training at the January Town Council meeting.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-6: DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every officer and member of the department to obey
without question, the orders of his superior officers at all times while in the
fire station or at or going to or returning from fires.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-7: POLICE AUTHORITY AND RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Chief of the Fire Department and members acting under his orders shall have
full and complete police powers and authority within the fire station, at fires
and proceeding to and returning from them in all meters pertaining to the Fire
Department, and shall also have authority to make arrests for violations of all
provisions of this chapter, the enforcement of which is under his jurisdiction.
The Chief or other officer in charge shall have authority to prescribe limits
within which no person shall be admitted, except by order of the officer. While
actually attending a fire, the Police Chief and his deputy and all other law
enforcement officers of the Town shall be under the orders of the Chief or
other officer of the department in charge of the fire, and such law enforcement
officers shall cooperate with the officer in charge of the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. In the case of an emergency, the Chief of the Fire
Department and members of the Department acting under the orders of the Chief,
shall have authority to enter any building in the proper performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-8: COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS OF INSPECTOR:
   A.   Scope And Requirements: Whenever any officer or member of the
department shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other place,
combustible or explosive matter or any dangerous accumulation of rubbish or
unnecessary accumulation of waste paper, boxes, shavings or any other highly
flammable materials especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to
endanger property, or shall find any obstruction to or on any fire escape,
stair, passageway, door or window liable to interfere with the operations of
the department, or egress of occupants, in case of fire, or shall find any
condition dangerous to life or property by reason of the fire hazard thereby
created, the member of the department is hereby authorized but not required to
order any hazardous condition as described to be removed or remedied, and
whether or not the member is engaged in any routine fire inspection, shall not
affect the validity of the order. The order shall be complied with by the owner
or occupant of the premises or building, subject to appeal within twenty four
(24) hours to the Mayor, who shall, within ten (10) days, review the order and
file his decision thereon, and unless the order is revoked or modified, it
shall remain in full force and be obeyed by the owner or occupant, and any
owner or occupant failing to comply with any such order within ten (10) days
after the appeal, shall have been determined, or if no appeal is taken, then
within ten (10) days after the service of the order, shall be liable to penalty
under the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Responsible Person: In those instances in which the owner and occupant
of a building or of any premises, is not one and the same person, the occupant
of such building or premises shall first be held responsible for the abatement
of any dangerous condition as described in this ordinance, but in the event of
the occupant being unavailable or otherwise immune to process, the owner of the
building or premises shall be responsible.
   C.   Order Of Immediate Discontinuance: The Fire Chief shall have full
authority to order the immediate discontinuance of the use of any stove,
stovepipe, flue furnace, electric wiring or other hazardous devises, pending
the result of an appeal to the Mayor.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-9: EVACUATION; DEMOLITION; ENTRY AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Evacuation, Abandonment: For the purpose of protecting persons or
property, the Fire Chief or other officer of the Fire Department in charge of
extinguishment of any fire, shall have the authority to order the evacuation
and/or abandonment of any building in immediate danger from an imminent
spreading of such fire. The members of the Fire Department are to remove the
contents of any threatened building whenever the authorized order for action
cannot be otherwise carried out, and the officer in charge of extinguishment of
any fire shall have complete police authority in the matter of removing persons
from any threatened building.
   B.   Entry: For the purpose of investigating the extent of any fire, or the
extent of damage or danger and/or the need for evacuation, abandonment, or
other action to be taken for the protection of persons or property, the Chief
or other officer in charge, and members of the Fire Department working under
the orders of the officer, shall have authority to enter any building, private
residence, or otherwise breaking into the building if necessary. No break in or
other entry without consent of the owner, proprietor or occupant of the
building shall be ordered or made, except in those cases in which the owner,
proprietor or occupant is absent, or in which the owner, proprietor, or
occupant is present, but refuses to grant consent; and when entry is
immediately necessary for the protection of any person, or for the protection
of any valuable property.
   C.   Demolition Order: The officer in charge shall have authority to order
demolition of any building, fences or other objects obstructing access to fire
hydrants and/or whose existence is liable to further the spread of any
dangerous fire, and the Town shall not be liable for the loss to the owner of
the building incurred by reason of such demolition.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-10: RECORDS, REPORT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inventory Of Equipment: The Chief of the Fire Department immediately
after assuming office and annually thereafter, shall make an inventory of all
property owned by the Department or in its charge, noting the condition of each
article. The inventory shall be submitted to the Mayor and Town Council at the
regular meeting of the Council last occurring before the meeting in which the
Town Council annually considers and enacts the appropriation of funds to defray
expenses of the Town for the fiscal year. The Chief shall accompany the
inventory of equipment with a list of his recommendations for the purchase of
additional equipment, and repairs to existing equipment he may deem necessary,
and any other recommendations he may desire to submit affecting the Fire
Department.
   B.   Hydrant Inspections: The Chief shall inspect or cause to be inspected
by members of the Department, at least twice annually, and more often if
necessary, all fire hydrants and shall list those needing attention in his next
succeeding report to the Town Council.
   C.   Reporting Loss Or Damage: Loss of or damage to equipment and accidents
involving members of the Fire Department in the performance of their duties
shall be reported immediately by the Chief, to the Mayor and Town Council.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-11: RECORDS AND REPORTS OF ACTIVITIES:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep or cause to be kept, a complete
record of the activities of the department in accordance with the requirements
of the Wyoming State Fire Marshal. The Chief shall meet with the Town Council
upon the request of the Council.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-12: FUNDING AND EXPENDITURES:
Monies shall be appropriated from the Fire Department Fund of the Town for
operating expenses of the Fire Department. In addition, the Fire Department is
authorized to raise funds and solicit donations through social activities, for
the purpose of defraying expenses of the department, which funds shall be
turned over to and earmarked by the Treasurer for disbursement in accordance
with applicable ordinances and Wyoming Statutes for Fire Department purposes.
No member of the department or any other person shall contract any indebtedness
on behalf of the department, unless authorized to do so with approval by the
Mayor. If allowed by Wyoming Statutes, the department may maintain separate
accounts of funds received from public entities and funds received from private
sources.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Interfering With Fire Department; Drivers:
      1.   No person shall enter or be allowed to enter the fire station unless
accompanied by a member of the department. No person not a member of the
department shall use any of the fire apparatus at fires or otherwise, unless
acting under orders of the officer of the Fire Department in charge of the
fire, nor shall any person interfere in any way with the department or any
member of the department in the performance of its, or his, duty.
      2.   Upon hearing a fire alarm, all drivers of vehicles shall take due
warning and upon approach of fire apparatus, shall move promptly to the right
curb and stop, in order to leave the middle of the street clear for passage of
the fire apparatus. Vehicles shall not follow fire apparatus nearer than one
full block and shall not proceed to any point within one full block of the
fire. This subsection shall not apply to those vehicles driven by members of
the department proceeding to the fire for the purpose of assistance in its
extinguishment. No vehicle shall be parked within fifteen feet (15') of any
fire hydrant or before the entrance of any theater, hall or other building in
which large assemblages are held, and no vehicle shall be driven over any fire
hose or other firefighting apparatus.
   B.   Lending Firefighting Apparatus: Firefighting apparatus and other Town
property in the charge of the department, shall not be loaned or rented except
by permission of the Chief of the Department and the Mayor; provided, that such
equipment may be used for Municipal purposes if a department member is present.
   C.   False Fire Alarm: No person shall knowingly give a false alarm of fire
except those for test purposes given or caused to be given by the Chief of the
department. No person shall interfere with any part of the fire alarm system,
unless authorized to do so by the Chief.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-14: COOPERATION OF WATER DEPARTMENT:
The Water Department or its equivalent shall cooperate in every way possible
with the Fire Department, to provide an adequate supply of water at pressures
suitable for firefighting and shall supply the Fire Department one or more
accurate maps of the water distributing system, showing the size and location
of all mains, valves and fire hydrants, which shall be posted and maintained in
a conspicuous place in the fire station, and shall report promptly to the Fire
Department the opening and closing of all valves in street mains, and any other
information relative to the water supply to any and all parts of Town, which
information shall also be posted for the information of firefighters and other
interested residents of the Town.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-15: HAZARDOUS AND DANGEROUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Order Of Fire Chief; Penalty For Failure: Upon the
receipt of an order from the Fire Chief to abate any dangerous condition or
fire hazard as described in this chapter, the owner or proprietor of the
premises upon which the fire hazard or dangerous condition exists, shall comply
at once with the order. If the owner or proprietor has not complied with the
order within three (3) days following its issuance, the Fire Chief shall sign
and file a complaint with the Municipal Justice of the Town, accusing the owner
or proprietor of a misdemeanor, and setting forth the nature of the offense
committed. If convicted, the defendant named in the complaint shall be fined as
provided in this chapter and shall be ordered by the Municipal Court Judge to
comply with the order of the Fire Chief, and thereafter every day that the
offensive condition is continued in existence, shall constitute a separate and
punishable offense, in addition to which a separate fine for contempt of court
may be imposed. The Municipal Court Judge may permit the defendant a longer
time in which to abate the condition if he deems leniency necessary.
   B.   Abatement By Town: In those instances in which a fire hazard or
dangerous condition is found to exist as provided in this chapter and the owner
or proprietor of the premises is not to be found within the Town, nor otherwise
available upon the exertion of reasonable effort upon the part of the Fire
Chief, or refuses or fails to remedy the hazardous condition, the Fire Chief
shall notify the Town Council at the next regular meeting, of the existence of
the fire hazard or dangerous condition and the location thereof, and the fact
that the proprietor is not available or that the proprietor refuses or has
failed to remedy the hazard or condition. Upon receipt of such notice, the
Council is authorized to order the abatement of the condition reported, as
provided in this chapter. The abatement shall be carried out by the proper
officer or officers of the Town, members of the Fire Department or otherwise,
and the expense of the abatement shall be paid out of the Fire Department Fund
of the Town Treasury and shall be included, together with a surcharge equal to
two hundred percent (200%) of such costs to cover indirect administrative
costs, in a bill charged against the owner of the property within or upon which
the fire hazard or dangerous condition was found to exist.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
5-2-16: FIRE PROTECTION BY OTHERS:
Town has ability to contract with Fire District for coverage in the Town.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987; amd. Ord. 385, - -2023)
5-2-17: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be as
specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of an offense is constituted a separate offense.
(Ord. 152, 9-14-1987)
CHAPTER 3: VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
5-3-1: Creation
5-3-2: Emergency Medical Service Captain
5-3-3: Officers
5-3-4: Volunteer EMTs
5-3-5: List Of Members
5-3-6: Duties Of Officers And Members
5-3-7: Police Authority And Right Of Entry
5-3-8: Evacuation
5-3-9: Records, Reports And Inspections
5-3-10: Records And Reports Of Activities
5-3-11: Funding And Expenditures
5-3-12: Prohibited Acts And Activities
5-3-13: Medical Hazard; Abatement
5-3-14: Medical Service Protection By Others
5-3-15: Penalty
5-3-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created and established a Volunteer Ambulance Service which
shall respond to and educate the public in all matters pertaining to medical
emergencies, prevention and care for all medical emergency apparatus and other
Municipal property in its charge and perform additional duties as may be
assigned to it by resolution or ordinance of the Town Council.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-2: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE CAPTAIN:
   A.   Appointment; Oath, Bond: The Emergency Medical Service Captain, after
election by the members of the ambulance service, shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the consent of the Town Council. The Emergency Medical Service
Captain shall hold office at the will and discretion of the Mayor, or until his
successor has been duly appointed. The Captain of the ambulance service shall
take and subscribe to an official oath, and shall file the oath with the Town
Clerk, the oath to be the same as the oath taken by other officers of the Town
except for additions and/or alterations as may be obviously necessary or
desirable to render the oath suitable and adaptable to the intent of such
officer and which may be authorized by the Town Council.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Captain of the ambulance service shall be
responsible for the discipline, good order and proper conduct of the entire
service, and for the enforcement of all ordinances and regulations pertaining
to it. He shall be responsible for the proper care of all emergency service
apparatus, and all other property of the service in its charge. He shall have
command and control over all officers and members of the service and all
apparatus and other property of the service or in its charge, and he likewise
shall have control of all persons present at emergencies.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-3: OFFICERS:
The Emergency Medical Services Captain may appoint and prescribe the duties of
such other Emergency Management Service officers as may be deemed necessary,
subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-4: VOLUNTEER EMTS:
   A.   Members: In addition to the Emergency Medical Service Captain and
officers of the ambulance service, there shall be auxiliary EMTs, who may be
referred to as volunteer EMTs. There shall be such number of positions as are
from time to time approved by the Town Council.
   B.   Appointment: No person shall be accepted to the position of volunteer
EMT until he has taken a training course prescribed by the Wyoming Emergency
Service Regulations, and passed an examination indicating adequate knowledge of
the matters taught in the course. Such test shall be prescribed by the State
Emergency Service Office, and matters covered shall include methods of
emergency treatment, operation of equipment, first aid, and such other relevant
items as shall be directed by the State Wyoming Emergency Service Department.
The case of any individual who has prior experience as an EMT on a volunteer
ambulance service or on a full time emergency medical service, the State may
waive any part of the course.
   C.   In Service Training Required: Each volunteer EMT shall take regular
training at least once each month, on the subjects prescribed and in the manner
prescribed by the State Emergency Service regulations. The Captain shall
require a minimum number of hours of training each month for each member as
prescribed by the State regulations. The minimum number of hours shall be the
amount required to learn new techniques and to continue to maintain skills
under old techniques.
   D.   Volunteer Emergency Medical Technicians: Each volunteer EMT shall
receive a nominal fee per assignment basis. Such nominal fee shall be assigned
by the Ambulance Service Board voted on by the members of an annual basis,
subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-5: LIST OF MEMBERS:
The Captain of the ambulance service shall maintain in the Office of the Town
Clerk an accurate list of the members of the service and shall report promptly
any additions or withdrawals from the membership and shall include an updated
copy of every volunteer EMT’s driver’s license, certificate of training, and
current CPR training at every January Town Council meeting.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-6: DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every officer and member of the service to obey without
question the orders of his superior officers at all times while in the
emergency medical service station and in going and returning from emergencies.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-7: POLICE AUTHORITY AND RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Captain of the ambulance service and members acting under his orders shall
have full and complete police powers and authority within the emergency medical
station, at emergencies and proceeding to and returning from them in all
matters pertaining to the ambulance service. The Captain or other officer in
charge shall have authority to prescribe limits within which no person shall be
admitted except by order of the officer. While actually attendant at an
emergency, the Police Captain and his deputy and all other law enforcement
officers of the Town shall be under the orders of the Captain or other officer
of the department in charge of the emergency. Such law enforcement officers
shall cooperate with the medical officer in charge of the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-8: EVACUATION:
For the purpose of protecting persons or property, the Captain or other office
of the service in charge of the medical emergency shall have authority to order
the evacuation of any building or premises to promote safety for the public.
5-3-9: RECORDS, REPORTS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inventory: The Captain of the ambulance service, immediately after
assuming office and annually thereafter, shall make an inventory of all
property owned by the service or in its charge, noting the condition of each
article. The inventory shall be submitted to the Mayor and Town Council at the
regular meeting of the Council last occurring before the meeting in which the
Town Council annually considers and enacts the appropriation of funds to defray
expenses of the Town for the fiscal year. The Captain shall accompany the
inventory of equipment with a list of recommendations for the purchase of
additional equipment, and repairs to existing equipment deemed necessary, and
any other recommendations desired to submit affecting the service.
   B.   Inspections: The Captain shall inspect or cause to be inspected by
members of the department, at least monthly, and more often if necessary, all
ambulances and equipment. Those needing attention will be reported at the next
regular meeting of the Town Council, or as soon as possible if the need is
immediate.
   C.   Reporting Loss Or Damage: Loss of or damage to equipment and accidents
involving members of the service in the performance of their duties shall be
reported immediately by the Captain, to the Mayor and Town Council.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-10: RECORDS AND REPORT OF ACTIVITIES:
The Captain of the ambulance service shall keep or cause to be kept, a complete
record of the activities of the service in accordance with the requirements of
the Wyoming State Emergency Medical Service Office. The Captain shall meet with
the Town Council upon request of the Council.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-11: FUNDING AND EXPENDITURES:
Monies shall be appropriated from the Ambulance Service Fund of the Town for
operating expenses of the ambulance service. In addition, the ambulance service
is authorized to raise funds and solicit donations through social activities,
for the purpose of defraying expenses of the service, which funds shall be
turned over to and earmarked by the Treasurer for disbursement in accordance
with applicable ordinances and Wyoming Statutes for emergency medical service
purposes. No member of the department or any other person shall contract any
indebtedness on behalf of the service unless authorized to do so with approval
by the Mayor. If allowed by Wyoming Statutes, the service may maintain separate
accounts for funds received from public entities and funds received from
private sources.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-12: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Interfering With Ambulance Service:
      1.   No person shall enter or be allowed to enter the ambulance garage
unless accompanied by a member of the department, unless authorized so to enter
by a member of the department. No person nor member of the department shall use
any of the emergency service apparatus at emergencies or otherwise unless
acting under orders of the officer of the service in charge of the emergency,
nor shall any person interfere in any way with the service or any member of the
service in the performance of its, or his or her, duty.
      2.   Upon hearing the emergency alarm, all drivers of vehicles shall take
due warning and upon the approach of emergency vehicles shall move promptly to
the right curb and stop in order to leave the middle of the street clear for
passage of the emergency medical service apparatus. Vehicles shall not follow
emergency medical service apparatus nearer than one full block and shall not
proceed to any point within one full block of the emergency. This subsection
shall not apply to those vehicles driven by members of the service proceeding
to the emergency for the purpose of assistance. No vehicle shall be parked
within twenty feet (20') or before the entrance to any theater, hall, or other
building in which large assemblages are held.
   B.   Lending Emergency Apparatus: Emergency apparatus and other Town
property in the charge of the service shall not be loaned or rented except by
permission of the Captain of the service and the Mayor; provided, that such
equipment may be used for Municipal purposes if a service member is present.
   C.   False Emergency Alarm: No person shall knowingly give a false emergency
alarm except those for test purposes given or caused to be given by the Captain
of the service. No person shall interfere with any part of the emergency alarm
system unless authorized to do so by the Captain.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-13: MEDICAL HAZARD; ABATEMENT:
In those instances in which a medical hazard or dangerous condition is found to
exist as provided in this chapter and the owner or proprietor of the premises
is not to be found within the Town, nor otherwise available upon the exertion
of reasonable effort upon the part of the Emergency Medical Service Captain, or
refuses or fails to remedy the hazard or condition, the Emergency Medical
Service Captain shall notify the Town Council at the next regular meeting of
the existence of the medical hazard or dangerous condition and the location
thereof and the fact that the proprietor is not available or that the
proprietor refuses or has failed to remedy the hazard or condition. If the
hazard is urgent, notification to the Town Council should be immediate. Upon
receipt of such notice, the Council is authorized to order the abatement of the
condition reported as provided in this chapter. The abatement shall be carried
out by the proper officer or officers of the Town, members of the ambulance
service or otherwise, and the expense of the abatement shall be paid out of the
Ambulance Service Fund of the Town Treasury and shall be included, together
with a surcharge equal to two hundred percent (200%) of such costs to cover
indirect administrative costs, in a bill charged against the owner of the
property within or upon which the medical hazard or dangerous condition was
found to exist.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-14: MEDICAL SERVICE PROTECTION BY OTHERS:
No groups or persons may provide emergency medical service protection and or
treatment on an organized basis unless and until such group has been organized
as directed by this chapter and its operations and procedures specifically
approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
5-3-15: PENALTY:
The penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be as
specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of an offense is constituted as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 204, 10-13-1997)
CHAPTER 4: FIRE ZONES
Section
5-4-1: Establishment Of Fire Zone
5-4-2: Prohibition Of Certain Building Practices Within Fire Zone
5-4-3: Penalty
5-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE ZONE:
For the purpose of protecting public health and safety, the Town fully adopts
the International Building Code and abolishes the one hundred twenty foot
(120') setback. The International Building Code is dedicated to the development
of better building construction and greater safety to the public uniformity in
building laws. The Code is founded on broad based principles that make possible
the use of new materials and new construction systems.
(Ord. 199, 5-19-1997)
5-4-2: PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN BUILDING PRACTICES WITHIN FIRE ZONE:
No commercial building, or addition to any commercial building, framed with
wood, shall hereafter be placed, built or erected within the Fire Zone as
designated in this chapter. The provisions of this section shall not prohibit
the installation, maintenance, repair or replacement of wood siding upon any
building within said Fire Zone, but shall prevent construction, alteration, or
reconstruction of any commercial building within said zone when such building
is framed with wood.
(1982 Code § 15.01.020)
5-4-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished upon conviction as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 15.01.030)
CHAPTER 5: EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
Section
5-5-1: Licensing
5-5-2: Stands
5-5-3: Regulations And Requirements
5-5-4: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 35-10-201 et seq.
5-5-1: LICENSING:
   A.   License Required; Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for
sale, sell or give away any fireworks within the Town without first obtaining a
license therefor and paying a yearly license fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   B.   Application; Information: Any person applying for a license to offer
for sale, sell or give away any fireworks shall file with the Town Clerk a
sworn application in writing which shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of applicant.
      2.   The permanent home address and local address of the applicant and
the representative thereof filing the application.
      3.   A description of the nature of the business to be conducted.
      4.   The place where the sale of the fireworks will take place, which
place must be approved by the Town Fire Chief prior to the issuance of the
license.
      5.   The applicant must apply each year and pay the license fee each
year.
(Ord. 209, 5-10-1999)
5-5-2: STANDS:
   A.   Permanent Stands: Permanent stands are buildings or structures which
have a foundation, are not moved or dismantled, have no wheels, and remain on
location year round.
      1.   Electrical service and structure wiring shall meet the current
adopted edition of the National Electrical Code.
      2.   Extension cords shall not be used for permanent wiring.
      3.   Florescent bulb covers are required on all fixtures.
      4.   A minimum of two (2) exits with exit signs posted over the doors and
the doors shall be a minimum of three feet (3') wide and six feet (6') to eight
feet (8') high.
      5.   Fire extinguishers, 2A:20B.C., with current inspection tags, mounted
not over sixty inches (60") above the floor at each exit.
      6.   No smoking signs posted inside the structure.
      7.   No smoking within fifty feet (50') signs posted outside of the
structure on all four (4) sides.
      8.   All trash shall be picked up around the structure and weeds shall be
kept two inches (2") within seventy five feet (75') of the structure.
      9.   The applicant must submit a copy of their insurance with a one
million dollar ($1,000,000.00) limit and the Town listed as additional insured.
   B.   Temporary Stands: Temporary stands are buildings and structures with no
foundations, and can be moved from one location to another.
      1.   Must obtain a building permit each year.
      2.   Must have written permission from landowner.
      3.   Must submit a copy of their insurance.
      4.   Must meet the Town’s existing setback regulations.
      5.   The temporary buildings, etc., may only be in the same location for
a maximum of 90 days.
      6.   The structure must be nice in appearance, painted, skirted, etc.
      7.   There shall be two (2) exits, one on each end of the stand.
      8.   Fire extinguishers, 2A:20B.C., with current inspection tags, mounted
not over sixty inches (60") above the floor at each exit.
      9.   No smoking signs posted inside the stand.
      10.   No smoking within 50 feet of signs posted outside the stand on all
four (4) sides.
      11.   All trash picked up around the stand and weeds shall be cut less
than two inches (2") within seventy five feet (75') of the stand.
      12.   Applicant will not be issued a business license until the above
requirements are met.
5-5-3: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Age: No license or selling of fireworks shall be issued to any
person who has not attained the age of nineteen (19) years and no person will
sell fireworks unless they are nineteen (19) years of age and older.
   B.   Storage Areas: It shall be unlawful to possess, store or use any
fireworks within one hundred feet (100') of any gasoline bulk station or
storage area, or any building or fuel source in which gasoline or volatile
liquids or gases are dispensed.
   C.   Dry Conditions: The Council shall have the right to determine whether
or not conditions are too dry for either selling or shooting fireworks. If the
Council determines conditions are too dry, they can cause both selling and
shooting of fireworks to be illegal in the Town until such time as they feel it
is safe.
(Ord. 209, 5-10-1999)
5-5-4: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter constitutes a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be punishable as specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 6: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Permit Requirements
5-6-3: Number Of Dogs Or Cats Permitted
5-6-4: Restraint Required; At Large Prohibited
5-6-5: Noisy Dogs
5-6-6: Harboring Vicious Dogs
5-6-7: Interfering With Live Dog Traps
5-6-8: Impounding
5-6-9: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xiv)
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, each of the following terms are defined as follows:
AT LARGE: Every dog shall be considered running at large when it is physically
off the real property of the owner of the dog, and not under immediate
restraint of a competent person.
NOISY DOG: Any dog which habitually, constantly or frequently disturbs the
sleep, peace or quiet of any neighborhood or person.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, association of persons or corporation who
shall own, keep or harbor any dog, or permit the same to habitually remain or
be fed in or about such owners’ premises.
RESTRAINT: A dog is under restraint only when controlled by a leash or when in
the immediate company of a competent person and obedient to that person’s
command, or in a vehicle on a street or other place not within the property
limits of the owner.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exceptions; Nonresidents:
      1.   No person shall, without first obtaining a permit therefor, in
writing from the Town Clerk or administrative official, own, keep, harbor or
have custody of, any dog over three (3) months of age. A permit, if not
revoked, shall be valid from the date of issuance, until June 30 of the year
following the year of issue. Every owner shall obtain a new permit each year.
The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to dogs brought into Town for
the purpose of participating in any dog show, nor to seeing eye dogs assisting
blind persons, when such dogs are properly trained to assist blind persons, for
the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place. Any other dog which is
the property of a nonresident of the Town, must have a valid license or permit
issued by another municipal corporation.
      2.   Dogs which are the property of nonresident owners, and which have
not been properly licensed by another municipality corporation, may be taken up
and impounded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: The owner shall state at the time application
is made for a permit and upon printed form provided for such purpose, his name
and address, and the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned or kept by
him, whether such dog has been spayed or neutered, and in the case of spayed or
neutered dogs the owner shall submit a certificate from a licensed veterinarian
that his dog or dogs have been spayed or neutered. At the time of application
for permit, the owner shall also present a certificate of rabies vaccination in
accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Conditions Of Issuance: Permits issued in accordance with this chapter
are conditioned upon the requirement for humane care of the owner’s dog and for
compliance by the owner with all provisions of this chapter and other
applicable State and local laws. The Town Clerk or administrative official may
revoke any permit if the person holding the permit refuses or fails to comply
with this chapter or any State or local law governing cruelty to animals or the
keeping of animals. Any person whose permit is revoked shall, within ten (10)
days thereafter, shall remove the dogs from the town limits by such person and
no part of the permit fee shall be refunded. If any person whose permit is
revoked shall fail to humanely dispose of all dogs being owned, kept or
harbored by such person as required in this chapter, such dogs may be impounded
by the administrative official and thereafter humanely disposed of.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit; Fee; Tags:
      1.   Upon showing by any applicant for a permit, that he or she is
prepared to comply with the conditions of issuance, a permit shall be issued,
upon the payment of ten dollars ($10.00).
      2.   Upon issuing a permit to keep any dog, the Town Clerk or
administrative official, shall issue to the owner, a metallic or durable
plastic tag, stamped with an identifying number, and with the year of issuance,
and so designed that it may conveniently be fastened to the dog’s collar or
harness by the owner, and shall be worn at all times when the dog is off the
premises of its owner. The Town Clerk shall maintain a record of the
identifying numbers and shall make the record available to the public.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-3: NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS PERMITTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor at any single-family
residence in the Town more than six (6) dogs or cats more than four (4) months
of age, excepting duly licensed kennel operators.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-4: RESTRAINT REQUIRED; AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
All dogs shall be kept under restraint. No dog shall be allowed to run at large
within the Town limits. It shall be presumed of the owner of any dog impounded
pursuant hereto, which dog has previously been impounded pursuant hereto, that
such owner has knowingly allowed such dog to run at large.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-5: NOISY DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor within the limits of
the Town any dog which by its barking, howling or yelping, habitually disturbs
the quiet of any neighborhood or person.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-6: HARBORING VICIOUS DOGS:
No person shall have, keep or harbor, or allow to be kept or harbored, upon any
premises occupied by him, or in or under his charge or control, any notoriously
vicious or cross dog, or any dog that may manifest a disposition to bite
anyone, without having the same adequately secured and muzzled. Upon the
conviction of any person under the provisions of this section, if it shall
appear to the Municipal Judge that said dog is still living, said Judge may in
addition to the punishment provided for violation of this chapter order the
Chief of Police or any police officer, to forthwith cause such dog to be
humanely destroyed, and for that purpose any such police officer charged with
such duty shall have the right to enter upon any premises within the Town.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-7: INTERFERING WITH LIVE DOG TRAPS:
No person shall interfere, tamper with or in any way affect the operation of
any live dog trap maintained or utilized by the administrative official or any
police officer of the Town.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-8: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Dogs At Large: Any police officer or the administrative official of the
Town shall take up and impound every dog found or known to be running at large
and shall do so without making or requiring a complaint therefor and shall
place such dog in the local animal shelter. A citation may be issued to the dog
owner as specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Notice Of Impounding:
      1.   Upon the impounding of any dog in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, the administrative official, or the Police Department, shall
exert reasonable efforts to ascertain the ownership of such dog. If by a permit
tag or other means the owner can be identified, the administrative official or
Police Department shall notify the owner by telephone, in person or by writing
if the dog has been impounded. Such notice shall contain a general description
of the dog and date of impounding.
      2.   If the owner of the impounded dog is not ascertained as stated
above, a notice of the impounding of such dog shall be posted at the Town Hall,
which notice shall contain a general description of the impounded dog and the
date of impounding.
   C.   Reclaiming Impounded Dogs:
      1.   Only the owner may reclaim or redeem an impounded dog. The owner is
responsible for any and all fees and other requirements required by the local
animal shelter.
      2.   Any and all rules and regulations of the local animal shelter shall
be applicable under this chapter.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
5-6-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction of the violation hereof, shall be punishable
as specified by section
 1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord., 8-9-2000)
CHAPTER 7: OFFENSES
Section
5-7-1: Interference With Police Department
5-7-2: Following Fire Apparatus And/Or Driving Over Fire Hose
5-7-3: Assault
5-7-4: Assault And Battery
5-7-5: Affray
5-7-6: Petit Larceny
5-7-7: Receiving Stolen Goods
5-7-8: Shoplifting
5-7-9: Public Indecency
5-7-10: Cruelty To Animals
5-7-11: Public Intoxication
5-7-12: Breach Of Peace
5-7-13: Discharging Firearms
5-7-14: Disorderly Conduct
5-7-15: False Fire Alarms
5-7-16: False Call For Police
5-7-17: Interfering With Fire Alarm System
5-7-18: Gambling
5-7-19: Malicious Mischief
5-7-20: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-7-21: Criminal Trespass
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS title 6
5-7-1: INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE DEPARTMENT:
No person shall resist any police officer, any member of the Police Department,
or any person duly empowered with police authority while in the discharge or
apparent discharge of his duty, or in any way interfere with or hinder such
officer in the discharge of his duty and, upon conviction thereof, such person
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.010)
5-7-2: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS AND/OR DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than one on
any official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response
to a fire alarm, closer than five hundred feet (500'), or drive into or park
such vehicle within the block where any fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm. Any violation of this section shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to
be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command. Any violation of this subsection shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 3.01.020)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-23, 31-5-232
5-7-3: ASSAULT:
Whoever, having the present ability to do so, unlawfully attempts to commit a
violent injury on the person of another, is guilty of assault and shall be
punished, upon conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.030)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-2-501
5-7-4: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
Whoever, in a rude, insolent or angry manner, unlawfully touches another, is
guilty of assault and battery, and shall be punished, upon conviction, as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.040)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-2-501
5-7-5: AFFRAY:
If two (2) or more persons by agreement fight in any public place, the persons
so offending are guilty of an affray and shall be punished, upon conviction, as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.050)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-6-101
5-7-6: PETIT LARCENY:
Whoever unlawfully steals, takes and carries, leads or drives away the personal
goods of another, of the value of any sum less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), is guilty of petit larceny and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.060)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-3-402
5-7-7: RECEIVING STOLEN GOODS:
Whoever buys, receives, conceals or aids in the concealment of anything of
value, which has been stolen, embezzled or taken by false pretense, knowing the
same to have been stolen, embezzled or obtained by false pretense, shall be
punished, upon conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.070)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-3-402, 6-3-403
5-7-8: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Prohibition: Any person who wilfully conceals or wilfully takes
possession of any goods offered for sale by a wholesale or retail store or
other mercantile establishment, without the knowledge or consent of the owner
thereof and with intent to convert the goods to his own use without paying the
purchase price therefor is guilty of shoplifting.
   B.   Detain, Interrogate: Any peace officer, merchant or merchant’s employee
who has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed the crime of
shoplifting, as defined in subsection A of this section, may detain and
interrogate such person in regard thereto in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable time.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be punished in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.080)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-3-405
5-7-9: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
Whoever, being over fourteen (14) years of age, makes an indecent exposure of
his or her person in a public place, where there are other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby, is guilty of public indecency and shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.090)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-4-201
5-7-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Whoever inhumanly, unnecessarily or cruelly beats, injures or otherwise abuses
any dumb animal within the limits of the Town is guilty of cruelty to animals
and shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.100)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-3-203
5-7-11: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
If any person is drunk, or is in a state of intoxication on any highway, street
or thoroughfare or other public place within the Town, such person is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.110)
5-7-12: BREACH OF PEACE:
Whoever, by any loud or unnecessary talking or by any threatening, abusive,
profane or obscene language, or violent actions, or by any other rude behavior
interrupts or disturbs the peace of any inhabitant of the Town is guilty of a
breach of peace and shall be punished, upon conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.120)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-6-102
5-7-13: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol, revolver or firearm of any
description within the Town limits.
(1982 Code § 13.01.130)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-8
5-7-14: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Prohibitions: A person shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct if
he wilfully:
      1.   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
      2.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
      3.   Obstructs, either single or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any public way in the Town and refuses to
clear such obstruction when ordered to do so by the police or other lawful
authority;
      4.   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer, when
known to be such an official, where one or more persons are committing acts of
disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and the public health and safety
is immediately threatened;
      5.   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by police or any
other authorized official of the Municipality, when known to be such an
official;
      6.   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby that other is placed in danger of his life, limb or health;
      7.   Uses abusive, profane or obscene language in any public place.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.140)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-6-102, 15-1-103(a)(xvi)(C)
5-7-15: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
No person shall knowingly give a false alarm of any fire, except those for test
purposes given or caused to be given by the Fire Department. Any violation of
this section shall be punished, upon conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.150)
5-7-16: FALSE CALL FOR POLICE:
No person shall knowingly call any police officer to any place by falsely
giving such officer to understand that he is needed or wanted in any place as
such officer. Any violation of this section shall be punished, upon conviction,
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.160)
5-7-17: INTERFERING WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEM:
No person shall interfere with any part of the fire alarm system of the Town
unless so authorized by the Fire Department. Any violation of this section
shall be punished, upon conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.170)
5-7-18: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall play, deal carry on or conduct any game
whatsoever or any plan, scheme or device for money or anything of value by
means of cards, dice, slot machines, lotteries, or any contrivance, means,
device or machine within the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 13.01.180)
   B.   Allowing Gambling On Premises: No person shall knowingly permit
subsection A of this section to be violated in or upon the premises owned,
managed or controlled by him.
(1982 Code § 13.01.190)
   C.   Confiscation Of Devices: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
seize any game, device, cards, tools or implements or other articles or things
designed for the purpose of gambling, employed or used by or in the possession
of parties arrested for gambling, and the same shall be disposed of in
accordance with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1982 Code § 13.01.200)
   D.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punished, upon
conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-7-101 et seq.
5-7-19: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF:
No person shall wantonly or mischievously break or destroy, in manner, any
property of another. Any violation of this section shall be punished, upon
conviction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 13.01.210)
5-7-20: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
The term “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products and materials of
any kind which are used intended for use, or designed for use, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance, as defined by
the Wyoming Controlled Substances Act, Wyoming Statutes section 35-7-1001, of
the Act. Said Act by this reference is hereby incorporated herein as if fully
set forth. It includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
   B.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
   C.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
   D.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
   E.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
   F.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances.
   G.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for use
in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
   H.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used, intended
for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
   I.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended for
use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
   J.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed for
use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
   K.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for use,
or designed for use in parentally injecting controlled substances into the
human body;
   L.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body:
      1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes, with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal bowls;
      2.   Water pipes;
      3.   Carburetion masks;
      4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as
marijuana.
(Ord. 289, 6-5-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 35-7-1001
5-7-21: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
   A.   Prohibition: A person is guilty of criminal trespass if he enters or
remains on or in the land or premises of another person, knowing he is not
authorized to do so, or after being notified to depart or to not trespass. For
purposes of this section, notice is given by:
      1.   Personal communication to the person by the owner or occupant, or
his agent, or by a peace officer; or
      2.   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to attention of
intruders;
      3.   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders.
   B.   Penalty: Criminal trespass is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided for
in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 291, 6-5-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 6-3-303
TITLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
TRAFFIC CODE   1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT   1A
LICENSES, REGISTRATION, INSURANCE   2
OPERATION OF VEHICLES   3
CHAPTER 1: TRAFFIC CODE
Section
6-1-1: Traffic Code Sections Adopted
6-1-2: References In Traffic Code
6-1-3: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-108 (local authority)
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE SECTIONS ADOPTED:
Wyoming Statutes sections 31-5-101 through 31-5-110, 31-5-112 through 31-5-119,
31-5-121 through 31-5-233, 31-5-301 through 31-5-407, 31-5-503 through 31-5-706
and 31-5-901 through 31-5-960, the same being portions of the Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways, are adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as part of this title as fully as if completely set forth herein. One
copy of such Uniform Act shall be kept on file in the Office of Town Clerk for
examination and inspection.
(1982 Code § 4.01.010)
Statutory reference:
   Pursuant to WS § 15-1-119
6-1-2: REFERENCES IN TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   Justice Of The Peace: Whenever reference is made in the Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways to “Justice of the Peace”, said words are
amended to and intended to refer to the Judge of the Town or Municipal Court of
Thayne, Wyoming, as appropriate.
(1982 Code § 4.01.020)
   B.   Streets: Whenever reference is made in the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highways, to the word “highways” or “State highway”, the same means
and includes streets within the Town of Thayne, State of Wyoming.
(1982 Code § 4.01.030)
   C.   Governing Body: Whenever reference is made in the Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways to “governing body” or “local authorities”, the
same means and includes the Town Council of the Town of Thayne, Wyoming.
(1982 Code § 4.01.040)
6-1-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this title, unless such violation is declared to be a felony by
State law.
   B.   Penalty: Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter for which another penalty is not provided
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Evidence of a prior conviction or convictions shall not be
introduced during the trial of any case, but shall be introduced only after the
completion of the trial for the purpose of determining the penalty to be
imposed upon a conviction hereunder.
(1982 Code § 4.01.250)
ARTICLE A: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
6-1A-1: Arrest Procedures; Appearance; Citations
6-1A-2: Traffic Citations
6-1A-1: ARREST PROCEDURES; APPEARANCE; CITATIONS:
   A.   Authority; Offenses: Whenever a person is arrested for any violation of
this title, the authority of a police officer to make an arrest is the same as
upon an arrest for a felony when the officer has reasonable and probable
grounds to believe that the person arrested has committed any of the following
offenses:
      1.   Negligent homicide or homicide by vehicle;
      2.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a vehicle while under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or any controlled substance;
      3.   Failure to stop, failure to give information in the event of an
accident resulting in death or personal injuries as prescribed in Wyoming
Statutes sections 31-5-1101 and 31-5-1103;
      4.   Failure to stop or give information in the event of an accident
resulting in damage to a vehicle or to fixtures or other property legally upon
or adjacent to a highway as prescribed in Wyoming Statutes sections 31-5-1102,
31-5-1104 and 31-5-1105;
      5.   Reckless driving.
   B.   Whenever any person is arrested as authorized in this section, he shall
be taken without unnecessary delay before the proper court as specified in
subsection
 6-1A-2A8, except, that in the case of either of the offenses designated in
subsections A4 and A5 of this section, a police officer shall have the same
discretion as is provided in other cases in subsection D of this section.
   C.   Taken To Court: Whenever any person is halted by a police officer for
any violation of this title, he shall be taken without unnecessary delay before
the proper court as specified in subsection
6-1A- 2A8, in the following case: when the person demands an immediate
appearance before a judge.
   D.   Citation; Taken To Judge: Whenever any person is halted by a police
officer for any violation of this title and is not required to be taken before
a court as hereinbefore provided, the person shall, in the discretion of the
officer, either be given a traffic citation or be taken without unnecessary
delay before the proper judge, as specified in subsection
6-1A-2A8 of this article, in any of the following cases:
      1.   When the person does not furnish satisfactory evidence of identity
or when the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe the person
will disregard a written promise to appear in court;
      2.   When the person is charged with a violation of Wyoming Statutes
section 31-5-959, relating to vehicles transporting explosives.
   E.   Applicability To Residents, Nonresidents: All of the provisions of this
section apply both to residents and nonresidents of this State, except the
special provisions in this section which shall govern in respect to
nonresidents under the circumstances hereinafter stated:
      1.   A police officer at the scene of a traffic accident may arrest
without a warrant any driver of a vehicle who is a nonresident of this State
and who is involved in the accident when, based upon personal investigation,
the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to believe that the person has
committed any offense under the provisions of this title in connection with the
accident;
      2.   Whenever any person is arrested under the provisions of this
subsection, he shall be taken without unnecessary delay before the proper
court, as specified in subsection
6-1A-2A8 of this article.
(1982 Code § 4.01.260)
6-1A-2: TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   Whenever a person is halted by a police officer for any violation of
this title punishable as a misdemeanor, and is not taken before a judge, the
officer shall prepare a written traffic citation containing a notice to appear
in court.
      2.   The time specified in the notice to appear must be at least five (5)
days after the alleged violation unless the person charged with the violation
shall demand an earlier hearing.
      3.   The place specified in the notice to appear must be before a judge
as designated in subsection A8 of this section.
      4.   The person charged with the violation in which event the officer
shall deliver a copy of the citation to the person, and thereupon, the officer
shall not take the person into physical custody for the violation.
      5.   The police justice of the Town may designate specified offenses
under the motor vehicle and traffic ordinances of the Town in respect to which
payment of fines may be accepted by paying the amount designated without
appearance before the police justice, and shall specify by suitable schedules
the amount of such fines, provided such fines are within the limits declared by
ordinance.
      6.   Any officer violating any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of misconduct in office and shall be subject to removal from office.
      7.   Except for felonies and those offenses enumerated in subsections
 6-1A-1A1, A2 and A3 of this article, a police officer at the scene of a
traffic accident may issue a written traffic citation, as provided in
subsection A of this section, to any driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident when, based upon personal investigation, the officer has reasonable
and probable grounds to believe that the person has committed any offense under
the provisions of this title in connection with the accident.
      8.   Whenever any person is taken before a judge or is given a written
traffic citation containing a notice to appear before a judge as hereinbefore
provided, the judge shall be a judge within the Town in which the offense
charged is alleged to have been committed and who has jurisdiction of the
offense and is nearest or most accessible with reference to the place where the
alleged violation occurred.
      9.   Whenever any person is taken into custody by an officer for the
purpose of taking him before a judge or court as authorized or required in this
title upon any charge other than the offenses enumerated in subsections
6-1A-1A1, A2 and A3 of this article, and no judge is available at the time of
arrest, and there is no bail schedule established by any court and no lawfully
designated court clerk or other public officer who is available and authorized
to accept bail upon behalf of the court, the person shall be released from
custody upon the issuance to him of a written traffic citation.
(1982 Code § 4.01.280)
   B.   Appearance:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his written promise
to appear given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such citation was
originally issued.
      2.   A written promise to appear in court may be complied with by an
appearance by counsel.
(1982 Code § 4.01.290)
   C.   Forms:
      1.   Appropriate forms for traffic citations containing notices to appear
which shall be issued in books with citations in triplicate and meeting the
requirements of subsection A of this section.
      2.   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books and shall maintain a record of every such book and each citation
contained therein issued to individual police officers and shall require and
retain a receipt for every book so issued.
(1982 Code § 4.01.290)
   D.   Disposition; Records:
      1.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this title, shall deposit the original or a copy
of such traffic citation with the court having jurisdiction over the alleged
offense.
      2.   Upon the deposit of the original or a copy of such traffic citation
with the court, the original or copy of such traffic citation may be disposed
of only by trial in such court or other official action by a judge of such
court, including forfeiture of the bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail
with or payment of a fine to the court by the person to whom such traffic
citation has been issued by the police officer.
      3.   It shall be unlawful and official misconduct for any police officer
or other officer or public employee to dispose of a traffic citation or copies
thereof or of the record of the issuance of the same in a manner other than as
required herein.
      4.   The Chief of Police shall require the return to him of a copy of
every traffic citation issued by an officer under his supervision to an alleged
violator and of all copies of every traffic citation which has been spoiled or
upon which any entry has been made and not issued to an alleged violator.
      5.   The Chief of Police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained in
connection with every traffic citation issued by an officer under his
supervision a record of the disposition of the charge by the court in which the
original or copy of the traffic citation was deposited.
(1982 Code § 4.01.300)
   E.   Illegal Cancellation; Audits; Annual Publication:
      1.   Any person who cancels or solicits the cancellation of any traffic
citation, in any manner other than as provided in subsection A of this section,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   Every record of traffic citations issued under the authority of the
ordinances of the Municipality shall be audited annually by the appropriate
fiscal officer of the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 4.01.310)
   F.   When Deemed Lawful Compliant: In the event the form of citation
provided under subsection A of this section includes information and is sworn
to as required under the general laws of this State in respect to a complaint
charging commission of the offense alleged in such citation to have been
committed, then such citation when filed with a court having jurisdiction shall
be deemed to be a lawful complaint for the purpose of prosecution under this
title.
(1982 Code § 4.02.320)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-1205
CHAPTER 2: LICENSES, REGISTRATION, INSURANCE
Section
6-2-1: Driver’s License
6-2-2: Registration Of Vehicles
6-2-3: Liability Coverage
6-2-1: DRIVER’S LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle upon the streets of the Town unless such person has in his immediate
possession a valid operator’s license or chauffeur’s license issued by the
State of Wyoming or by his home state or county, as may be required by the laws
of the State of Wyoming, if such operator’s license or chauffeur’s license is
required of such person under the laws of his home state or country, and
displays the same upon demand of a police officer of this Town; provided,
however, that it shall be a defense to any charge under this subsection that
the person so charged produce in court an operator’s or chauffeur’s license as
above required theretofore issued to such person and valid at the time of his
arrest.
   B.   Restricted License: It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle upon the streets of the Town in any manner in violation of the
restrictions imposed in a restricted operator’s license or chauffeur’s license
granted to him by the State of Wyoming or by his home state or country.
(1982 Code § 4.01.050)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-7-101
6-2-2: REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES:
Every vehicle at all times while being driven, stopped or parked upon the
streets or alleys of this Town shall be registered in the name of the owner
thereof and in accordance with the laws of the State and shall display in
proper position valid and unexpired registration plates or indicia of
registration, meeting the requirements of the laws of the State, clear and
distinct and free from defacement, mutilation, grease and other obscuring
matter, so as to be plainly visible and legible at all times; provided,
however, if such vehicle is not required to be registered in this State, the
indicia of registration issued by another state, territory, possession or
district of the United States or a foreign country, substantially complying
with the provisions hereof, shall be considered as compliance with this
section, in accordance with the laws of the State.
(1982 Code § 4.01.060)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-2-201 et seq.
6-2-3: LIABILITY COVERAGE:
   A.   Requirements: No owner of a motor vehicle currently required to be
registered or which is required to be registered within a period of time, shall
operate or permit the operation of his motor vehicle without having in full
force and effect a motor vehicle liability policy in amounts provided by
Wyoming Statutes section 31-9-405(b), or a bond in amounts provided by Wyoming
Statutes section 31-9-102(a)(xi).
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), or both. On a second or subsequent violation of this subsection, the
person may be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), imprisoned for not more than six
(6) months, or both. In addition to the fine or imprisonment imposed for a
second or subsequent violation of this section, the Judge shall require the
defendant to deliver the registration and license plates of the vehicle
involved to the county treasurer for the county where the citation was issued,
and the registration and license plates shall be held by the county treasurer
until such time as the Judge determines that the defendant has met all
obligations imposed by law.
(Ord. 285, 6-5-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-4-103
CHAPTER 3: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
6-3-1: Speed Limits Generally
6-3-2: Stop And Yield Intersections
6-3-3: Stopping Or Standing Prohibited In Specified Places
6-3-4: Emerging From Alleys, Driveways Or Buildings
6-3-5: Parking During Snowplowing
6-3-6: Parking Within Ten Feet Of Fire Station Entrance
6-3-7: Blocking Access
6-3-8: Towing Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-3-9: Snowmobiles
6-3-10: Prohibitions On Walking Paths
6-3-11: Use Of Handheld Wireless Communication Devices
6-3-12: Open Containers Of Alcoholic Beverages
6-3-13: Accident Reports Required
6-3-14: Careless Driving
6-3-1: SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing.
   B.   1.   Twenty (20) miles per hour when passing a school building, or the
grounds thereof, or a school crossing, during school recess or while children
are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours; provided, that
the presence of such school building, ground thereof or school crossing is
indicated plainly by signs or signals conforming to the provisions hereof.
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any town road, unless otherwise
posted.
(1982 Code § 4.01.070)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-109(a)(ix)
6-3-2: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
When local authorities have designated through streets, through highways and
have erected signs or yield signs at specified entrances thereto or have
designated an intersection as a stop intersection or as a yield intersection,
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal,
every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop
sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection; the driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign if required for safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway.
(1982 Code § 4.01.090)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-503
6-3-3: STOPPING OR STANDING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
      5.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      6.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(1982 Code § 4.01.100)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-504
6-3-4: EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR BUILDINGS:
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
(1982 Code § 4.01.110)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-506
6-3-5: PARKING DURING SNOWPLOWING:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street within the Town during the hours
of two thirty o’clock (2:30) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. at any time
from November 1 until March 31.
(1982 Code § 4.01.130)
6-3-6: PARKING WITHIN TEN FEET OF FIRE STATION ENTRANCE:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street within the Town within ten feet
(10') of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(1982 Code § 4.01.140)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-109
6-3-7: BLOCKING ACCESS:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street within the Town which blocks
access from any driveway to a street within the Town.
(1982 Code § 4.01.150)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-504(a)(ii)(A)
6-3-8: TOWING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle found parked in violation of this title is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and it may be summarily abated by removing such vehicle by or under
the directions or at the request of a police officer of the Town to a place of
storage within the Town or the towing company’s facility:
   A.   Notice: As soon as is reasonable under the circumstances, a written
notice that the vehicle has been impounded shall be mailed to the owner and
recorded lienholder, if there is one, of the vehicle at their last known
address as shown by the records of the Motor Vehicle Division of the Wyoming
Department of Revenue. If the license plates on the vehicle are from another
state, written notice shall be mailed to the Department of Motor Vehicles in
such state, requesting such department to notify that the same had been
impounded by the Police Department of the Town of Thayne and that the same will
be sold at public auction as is provided by the ordinances of the Town if not
claimed by the owner or his proper representatives, as provided by said Town
ordinance.
   B.   Criminal Proceedings: The impounding of a vehicle shall not prevent or
preclude the institution and prosecution of criminal proceedings against the
owner or operator of such impounded vehicles.
   C.   Requirements For Removal From Impound: Before the owner or his agent
shall be permitted to remove a vehicle which has been impounded he shall:
      1.   Furnish satisfactory evidence to the Police Department of his
identity and his ownership of the vehicle;
      2.   Request and obtain from the Police Department a written order
directed to the place of storage in which the vehicle is impounded, authorizing
the release of the vehicle to the owner or his agent upon the payment to the
place of storage of towing and storage charges reasonably incurred in the
towing and storage of the vehicle from the date of the impounding to the time
of presenting the order of release from the Police Department therefor;
      3.   Sign a written receipt of the vehicle and deliver the same to the
place of storage upon receiving the impounded vehicle.
   D.   Failure To Redeem; Notice; Sale: If at the expiration of thirty (30)
days after mailing notice provided for in subsection A of this section, such
vehicle is not redeemed by the owner or his proper representative, the Chief of
Police or his proper authorized agent shall proceed to sell the same at public
auction to the highest bidder after first giving at least ten (10) days’ notice
of the sale by publishing the notice at least once in a newspaper published in
Lincoln County, Wyoming, stating the time and place of such sale. Such notice
shall also describe the vehicle to be sold with reasonable certainty and shall
state whom, if anyone, the records of the Office of the Motor Vehicle Division
of the Department of Revenue show the same to belong, and, if there is one, the
name of the recorded lienholder. A copy of such notice as published shall be
mailed immediately after publication, to the owner or lienholder at their last
known address or their address shown on the records of the Motor Vehicle
Division of the Wyoming Department of Revenue. A copy of this notice as
published shall immediately, after publication, be mailed to the owner of the
place of storage. The money received by the Chief of Police or his authorized
agent, from the sale of any such vehicles shall be applied first to the actual
cost of towing and storage of such impounded vehicle, then to pay the actual
cost of advertising the notice of sale for each vehicle so impounded and the
balance, if any, shall then be paid to the Town Treasury to be used as
determined by the Town Council.
   E.   Application By Owner For Proceeds: At any time within one year from and
after such sale, the former owner of the vehicle sold, upon application to the
Town Council and upon presentation of satisfactory proof that he was the owner
of the vehicle sold, shall be paid the proceeds of such sale less the necessary
expense thereof and less the towing, impounding and storage charges and
administrative charges provided for in subsection D of this section.
   F.   Records Maintained: The Police Department shall keep a record of all
vehicles impounded by manufacturer’s trade name or make, body type, motor and
license number, and names and addresses of all persons claiming the same, and
such other descriptive matter as may identify such vehicles, the nature and
circumstances of the impounding thereof, and the violation on account of which
such vehicles were impounded, the date of such impounding thereof, and the name
and address of any person to whom any such vehicle is released.
(1982 Code § 4.01.060)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-504(a)(ii)(A)
6-3-9: SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Defined: For purposes of this section, the following word shall have
the meaning ascribed to it by this section:
SNOWMOBILE: Any mechanically driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, or skis, or any endless tread or combination or these designated
primarily for operation over snow.
(1982 Code § 4.01.170)
   B.   Operational Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive
or operate any snowmobile at any place within the Municipality except in full
compliance with the following requirements:
      1.   Permitted Operations: Over snow vehicles shall operate only over
public roadways within the Town when the same shall be snow covered or snow
packed, unless such roadways are explicitly posted against snowmobile use, and
such vehicles shall not be operated on sidewalks or public property.
      2.   Operators License: No over snow vehicle shall be operated until the
driver thereof shall have in his possession a valid driver’s license issued
under the motor vehicles laws of the State.
      3.   Registration: No over snow vehicle shall be operated without a
proper and valid registration from the State, issued in accordance with Wyoming
Statutes sections 31-2-401 through 31-2-408.
      4.   Towing: No over snow vehicle shall pull any skier, sled or other
combination vehicle by rope, or flexible coupling; all sleighs or cutters shall
be safely and securely affixed to the over snow vehicle, by direct coupling,
solid tongue not to exceed twenty four inches (24") in length, or triangular
shaped tow bar not exceeding twenty four inches (24") in length, being securely
affixed to two (2) points on the sleigh or cutter, with one flexible joint at
the center of the over snow vehicle.
      5.   Safety Equipment: It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to drive
or move or for the owner to use or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on
any roadway or street any over snow vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property which does not
contain those parts or if not at all times equipped with such equipment in
proper condition and adjustment as required by this section, or which is
equipped in any manner in violation hereof.
      6.   Mufflers: Every over snow vehicle shall be at all times equipped
with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent
excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
      7.   Brakes: Every over snow vehicle shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle.
      8.   Inspections: The City police and members of the State Highway Patrol
and County officials may at any time upon reasonable cause to believe that an
over snow vehicle is unsafe or not equipped as required by this section, or
that is not in proper adjustment or repair, may require the driver of such
vehicle to stop and submit such vehicle to an inspection and test with
reference thereto as may be appropriate. No person shall operate any vehicle
receiving notice with reference thereto as above provided except as may be
necessary to return such vehicle to the residence or place of business of the
owner or driver, or a garage, until said vehicle and its equipment have been
placed in proper repair and adjustment and otherwise made to conform to the
requirements of this section.
      9.   Rules Of The Road: Every operator or an over snow vehicle shall
observe all of the rules of the road pertaining to vehicles and in addition
shall yield the right-of-way to motor vehicles. All ordinances of the Town
pertaining to the operation of vehicles, to the extent that the same are not in
conflict herewith shall be applicable to the operation of over snow vehicles
and are adopted by reference and made a part hereof, the same as if set forth
fully herein.
      10.   Speed: No person shall operate, any over snow vehicle within the
incorporated limits of the Town at a speed in excess of the maximum speed
allowable for motor vehicles.
      11.   Method Of Travel: No person shall operate any over snow vehicle
within the incorporated limits of the Town where two (2) such vehicles are
abreast of each other, except while passing where permitted.
      12.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate one or more of the
provisions hereof, shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 4.01.180)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-2-401
6-3-10: PROHIBITIONS ON WALKING PATHS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall ride motorized vehicles, horses, four-
wheelers or snow machines on the Town walking paths.
   B.   Penalty: Violation of this section constitutes a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, is punishable as set forth in 1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 265, 11-10-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-109
6-3-11: USE OF HANDHELD WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while
using a handheld electronic wireless communication device to write, send or
read a text based communication.
(Ord. 286, 6-5-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-237
6-3-12: OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall consume, transport or possess any opened
alcoholic beverage in a motor vehicle which is in motion on a public street or
public highway, except as provided Wyoming Statutes section 31-5-235.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall:
      1.   For first conviction or a subsequent conviction not occurring within
one year after the first conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00);
      2.   For a second conviction within one year after the first conviction,
be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days or both;
      3.   For a third or subsequent conviction within one year after the first
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or both.
(Ord. 287, 6-5-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-235
6-3-13: ACCIDENT REPORTS REQUIRED:
Any person involved in an accident resulting in injuries to or death of any
person or damage to any vehicle is required to file with the Police Department
a report of such accident.
(1982 Code § 4.01.230)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-1105
6-3-14: CARELESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any motor vehicle on any street or public property, or
upon any private property within this Municipality in a careless and imprudent
manner, without due regard for road and traffic conditions or the safety or
persons or property is guilty of careless driving. The offense of careless
driving shall be deemed to be a lessor included offense in the offense of
reckless driving.
(1982 Code § 4.01.240)
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 31-5-236
TITLE 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL   1
RESTORATION STANDARDS FOR STREETS AND OTHER TOWN PROPERTY   2
TREE PROTECTION, ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT   3
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS   4
PARKING REGULATIONS   5
CHAPTER 1: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
Section
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Removal By Private Persons
7-1-3: Prohibited Deposits
7-1-4: Failure To Comply
7-1-5: Property In Road Right-Of-Way
 
7-1-6: Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-4-311
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector is the duly appointed Town building
inspector, Town administrative official and Town Engineer or, in his absence,
his duly designated and acting representative.
BUSINESS DAY: Any day not a Saturday, Sunday or a national holiday.
BUSINESS HOURS: The hours between eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and five o’clock
(5:00) P.M. on any business day.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(1982 Code § 11.01.010)
7-1-2: REMOVAL BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   Required: Every person, partnership, corporation or other entity in
charge or control of any building or lot of land within the Town fronting or
abutting any sidewalk within the Municipal limits of the Town shall keep such
sidewalk free from snow, ice, encroachments or other obstructions which impede
the normal flow of pedestrians along such sidewalk. Snow and ice shall be
removed within twenty four (24) hours after the cessation of any fall of snow,
sleet or freezing rain, which creates an ice covered surface on a sidewalk.
   B.   Abrasives: In the event that snow and ice on a sidewalk have become so
hard that they cannot be removed without the likelihood of damage to a
sidewalk, the person or entity charged with the removal of such snow or ice,
within the time mentioned in subsection A of this section, shall cause enough
sand or other abrasive to be put on the sidewalk to make travel thereon
reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon thereafter as weather permits, cause
such sidewalk to be thoroughly cleaned.
(1982 Code § 11.01.020)
7-1-3: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS:
No person shall place snow or ice from private driveways on the maintained
portion of the Municipal streets, roads, parking lots, alleys or sidewalks.
(Ord. 266, 11-10-2010)
7-1-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Work By Town: In the event of a failure of any person, partnership,
corporation or other entity to clear away or treat with abrasives and
subsequently clear away any snow and ice from any sidewalk as provided in this
chapter, or cause this to be done, the building inspector, as soon as practical
after such failure, may cause such work to be done by Town personnel or by
independent private persons or firms.
   B.   Record Maintained: The building inspector shall keep a record of the
exact cost of all work he causes to be done or contracts to be done in
accordance with this section.
   C.   Responsibility For Cost: Each person, partnership, corporation or
entity whose act or omission makes it necessary that the building inspector
causes work to be done or contracts work to be done in accordance with this
section shall be liable to the Town for the cost of such work plus an amount
equal to twenty percent (20%) of such cost for administration, record keeping
and notice. It shall be the duty of the Town Council to sue for these costs and
penalties, and it shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to assist in the
bringing of these suits.
(1982 Code § 11.01.040)
7-1-5: PROPERTY IN ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY:
A.   Property owners shall not place trash containers or any property in the
road right-of-way. The town will not be responsible for damage to improvements,
landscaping, vehicles, or property that is in the road right-of-way and is
damaged by town operations (snow removal, grading, etc.). Any landscaping,
vehicles or property in the road right-of-way are placed there at the property
owner’s risk. The town has the right to remove any obstruction (e.g.
landscaping, driveways, etc.) placed by the property owner in the town’s right-
of-way at the property owner’s expense. Any damage to town equipment or to
other property because of these obstructions placed in the town’s right-of-way,
shall be charged to the property owner.
B.   Roads and persons placing property in the road right-of-way may be cited
and/or the property impounded at the owner’s expense.
C.   Parking is prohibited on any town street, town right-of-way, or town
parking lot from two o’clock (2:00) A.M. to six o’clock (6:00) A.M. from
November 1 to March 31.
(Ord. 395, - -2024)
7-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, corporation or legal entity who violates any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished in accordance with section 1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such under this chapter.
(1982 Code § 11.01.050; amd. Ord. 395, - -2024)
CHAPTER 2: RESTORATION STANDARDS
   FOR STREETS AND OTHER TOWN PROPERTY
Section
7-2-1: Adoption Of Standards
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xi)
7-2-1: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS:
The following standards are hereby adopted for the repair and/or restoration of
streets, roadways, driveways and other property within the Town, which has been
damaged by the installation of utilities or other authorized activities:
   A.   Trenching: The following standards shall apply to trenching or other
excavation under asphalt pavement:
      1.   Prior to any construction activities, asphalt shall be saw cut at
least one foot (1') wider than the proposed trench or other excavation. The one
foot (1') cut shall be made on each side, to form a “T-Cap” on the top of the
excavation. All pipelines shall be “bedded” and “shaded” with 1" minus granular
material in accordance with Wyoming DEQ standards. After the completion of the
construction activities, backfill shall be placed in eight inch (8") lifts.
Compaction shall be at least ninety five percent (95%) of the laboratory
density as determined by AASHTO Method T-91. Material shall be properly
moistened or dried to the optimum moisture content to ensure proper compaction.
The backfill material may be native, but no rock larger that six inches (6") in
diameter shall be allowed back into the trench.
      2.   The top eight inch (8") lift shall be imported aggregate base course
material meeting WDOT standard graduation “W”. It shall be compacted to ninety
five percent (95%) of its maximum density.
      3.   If a crossing of a Town street or roadway is required in order to
connect to a utility or for any other reason, boring underneath the street or
roadway shall be required. The only exception will be if boring is not feasible
as determined by the governing body of the Town.
      4.   Prior to replacement of asphalt, a six inch (6") thickness of
concrete shall be placed above the disturbed area. Asphalt shall then be
replaced at a compacted two inch (2") thickness or the equivalent thickness of
the existing asphalt, whichever is greater. Asphalt design mixture shall
conform with the most current WYDOT standard for flexible pavement (1/2-inch
minus aggregate size).
      5.   As an alternative to a “T-Cap”, the trench may be backfilled above
the pipe bedding material with “flowable backfill” up to the bottom elevation
of the pavement. Flowable backfill shall be fifty (50) to one hundred fifty
(150) psi max meeting the most current WYDOT mix design.
   B.   Conformance Exception: The trenches or other excavations under gravel
streets, roadways or driveways shall conform to the provisions of subsection A
of this section, except for the provisions pertaining to asphalt replacement.
   C.   Outside Of Roadways: Trenches or other excavation outside of roadways
shall conform to the following standards:
      1.   After completion of construction activities, backfill shall be
placed in eighteen inch (18") lifts and compacted to a minimum of eighty five
percent (85%) of the laboratory density determined by AASTO Method T-91.
Material shall be properly moistened or dried to optimum moisture content to
ensure proper compaction. The backfill material may be native material, but no
rock larger than ten inches (10") shall be allowed back into the trench or
excavation.
   D.   Approval Required Prior To Covering: No excavation project or activity
performed within the Town which affects Town streets, roadways or driveways
shall be covered over until authorized personnel from the Town have completed
an on site inspection and given approval of the work.
   E.   Repairs, Restoration: After backfilling activities have been completed
along right-of-ways, the party responsible shall thoroughly clean up and remove
all items and/or materials remaining as a result of the work. All fences,
culverts, lawns and other improvements which are damaged as a result of the
work, shall be repaired and restored to their original condition by the party
causing the damage.
   F.   Time Limit For Repair, Restoration: The repair and restoration work on
each and every project shall be done immediately following completion of the
project, on a continual basis. Maximum time for repairing and/or restoring the
disturbed area shall be fifteen (15) days, unless additional time is allowed by
the governing body of the Town.
   G.   Guarantee, Maintenance: It shall be the duty of the permittee to
guarantee and maintain the site of the excavation work in the same condition it
was prior to the excavation for two (2) years after restoring it to its
original condition.
(Ord. 178, 6-14-1993)
CHAPTER 3: TREE PROTECTION, ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
Section
7-3-1: Tree Advisory Board
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Species To Be Planted
7-3-4: Spacing
7-3-5: Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
7-3-6: Distance From Street Corner, Fire Hydrants And Streetlights
7-3-7: Utilities
7-3-8: Public Tree Care
7-3-9: Tree Topping
7-3-10: Hazardous Tree Removal On Private Property
7-3-11: Tree Removal On Public Land
7-3-12: Exemption For Existing Trees
7-3-13: Penalty
7-3-1: TREE ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Creation And Establishment: There is hereby created and established a
Town Tree Advisory Board, which will consist of volunteer members at large,
subject to the approval of the Mayor and Town Council. This board will also be
known as the Beautification Committee.
   B.   Compensation: At large members of the board shall serve without
compensation.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Advisory Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop written standards, rules and regulations for
the care, preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition
of trees and shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys. Such standards will be
presented to the Town Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute amendments to the official Town tree ordinance and shall constitute
the official comprehensive Town Tree Plan for the Town.
      2.   The Tree Advisory Board, when requested by the Town Council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter of question coming within the scope of its responsibilities.
   D.   Organization: The Tree Advisory Board shall choose its own officers,
make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A
majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   E.   Town Council Approval Of Rules And Regulations: The Town may, and it
hereby expressly reserves the right, at any time or times, to adopt new rules
or regulations to amend, alter and/or repeal any rule, regulation and/or
article, section, paragraph and/or sentence in these rules and regulations.
   F.   Review By Council; Appeals: The Town Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Tree Advisory Board. Any person
may appeal from any ruling or order of the Tree Advisor Board to the Town
Council, who may hear the matter and make final decisions.
   G.   Provide Advice: The Tree Advisory Board will provide, upon request,
information and advice concerning tree species selection, care and planting of
trees and other related information.
   H.   Interference With Board: It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent, delay or interfere with the Tree Advisory Board, or any other of their
agents or servants, while engaging in planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing of any street trees or trees on private grounds, as
authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
STREET TREES: Trees on Town property lying between private property lines on
either side of all streets, avenues or ways within the Town.
TREE: Any self-supporting woody plant, together with its root system growing
upon the earth usually with one trunk of at least one inch (1") in diameter at
a height of four and one-half feet (41/2') above the ground, or a multi-stemmed
trunk system with a definitely formed crown.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-3: SPECIES TO BE PLANTED:
Any trees which are hardy and adaptable to this altitude zone and recommended
for growth in this area may be planted. Listings of trees recommended for
growth in Wyoming are available from the Tree Advisory Board, the Agricultural
Extension Service, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming, local master
gardeners or from the local County Extension Service.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-4: SPACING:
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the recommendations of
the Agricultural Extension Service, University of Wyoming, or from the local
County Extension Agent for the particular type of tree to be planted.
Consideration shall be given for special plantings designed or approved by a
landscape architect, landscape designer or person engaged in the field of
landscape contracting.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-5: DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK:
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be
in accordance with species and size of tree to be planted. No trees may be
planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following, unless the use of a
root barrier is used:
 
Small tree:  Two feet (2')
Medium tree: Three feet (3')
Large tree:  Four feet (4')
 
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-6: DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNER, FIRE HYDRANTS AND STREETLIGHTS:
No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty feet (30') of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No
street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant or
streetlight.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-7: UTILITIES:
The Tree Advisory Board recommends that no street trees be planted under or
within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within
five (5) lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission
line or other utility.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-8: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The Town shall have the right, but does not have the obligation, to plant,
prune, spray, preserve and remove within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public
safety or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Tree
Advisory Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, other public
improvements, or is affected by any fungus, insect or other pest.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-9: TREE TOPPING:
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or Town
department to top any street tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
(3") in diameter with the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the
normal canopy or disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the Tree Advisory Board.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-10: HAZARDOUS TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The Town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the Town, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the Town. The Tree Advisory Board will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
expense within sixty (60) days after the date of service notice. In the event
of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the Town shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal to the owners.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-11: TREE REMOVAL ON PUBLIC LAND:
A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, either for himself
or another, to remove, destroy or cause to be destroyed any tree in or upon
public right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place within
the Town, without having first obtained a written permit thereof. Any person
desiring a permit to remove a tree, as required by this section, shall submit a
written application to the Town Tree Advisory Board for each tree or groups of
trees per location. Such application shall be set forth the name and address of
the applicant and owner, the name and address of the person doing the work, the
kind of species of tree to be removed, location, of the tree, purpose of tree
removal and landscape or site plan if possible.
B.   Replacement Tree Required: A removal permit will be granted with the
agreement that a replacement tree will be planted in its place, or in a close
adjacent location as in accordance by this chapter.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-12: EXEMPTION FOR EXISTING TREES:
Trees already in place and growing at the date of adoption of this chapter
shall be exempt from sections
7-3-3 through
7-3-6 of this chapter. However, any replacement trees shall be governed by
these sections.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
7-3-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply with
any notice issued pursuant to provisions of this chapter, upon being found
guilty of violation, shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 205, 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 4: RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS
Section
   
7-4-1: General
   
7-4-2: Application
   
7-4-3: Review And Issuance
   
7-4-4: Inspection
   
7-4-5: Completion
   
7-4-6: Emergency Repair
   
7-4-7: Warranty
   
7-4-8: Site Conditions And Permittee Responsibilities
 
   
7-4-9: Penalty
7-4-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Without obtaining a right of way permit from the Town of Thayne, it is
unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Construct infrastructure such as, but not limited to, sidewalk,
boardwalk, curbs, gutters, and street paving within any street.
      2.   Dig up, break, excavate, tunnel, undermine, or in any manner break
up any street, or to make or cause to be made any excavation in or under the
surface of any street for any purpose.
      3.   Place, deposit, or leave upon any street any earth or other
excavated material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the
street, or
      4.   Move an existing house, building, or structure on or over any street
for the purpose of construction, excavation, tunneling, or storage of materials
or for activities which would facilitate such.
   B.   No dig periods. No right of way permit shall be issued starting
November 1st through May 1st of each calendar year, except by special
permission of the Town. The May 1st date may be extended or shortened at the
election of the Town Council.
   C.   All right-of-way excavation work shall comply with Town specifications.
   D.   Unless otherwise approved by the Town, fiber communications facilities,
gas facilities and electric facilities shall be buried as per subject utility
specifications and drawings.
   E.   The provisions of this article shall not be applicable to any
excavation work under the direction of Town authorities, by employees of the
Town or by any contractor of the Town performing work for and on behalf of the
Town necessitating openings or excavations in streets.
   F.   The provisions of this article shall be applicable to all persons
operating public utilities in the Town under franchises granted by the Town and
having the right, either by general or special permission, to enter upon
streets and open and excavate pavements, sidewalks or disturb the surface
thereof by excavation or other work, and such persons shall be required to
apply for a permit and to comply with all other provisions of this article.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-4-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   The application shall include emergency contact information, dates of
work, construction plans, work schedule, traffic control plan, necessary
encroachment agreements.
   B.   The Town reserves the right to require the construction plans to be
prepared by a Wyoming licensed professional engineer.
   C.   Proof of liability insurance from the contractor doing work within the
right-of-way and an additional insured status of its operations and/or
employees, vehicles, equipment and actions, and a signed indemnification
agreement further indemnifying the Town of all liability created out of the
actions of the subject contractor on the subject work.
   D.   General liability to cover public and private property damage; hold
harmless form. Liability insurance shall be maintained in an amount not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for damages per occurrence and in the
amount not less than two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The
Town may require a certificate of insurance and an additional insured status
with a waiver of subrogation.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-4-3: REVIEW AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   The application shall be submitted no more than four weeks prior to the
start of construction unless prior approval is granted by the Town to submit it
earlier.
   B.   Length of time for application review is dependent upon the size and
complexity of the work to be done within the Town right-of-way.
   C.   A permit shall not be assigned or transferred without the written
consent of the Town.
   D.   The permittee shall maintain an on-site copy of the approved permit,
plans, and specifications.
7-4-4: INSPECTION:
   A.   All inspections shall have forty-eight-hour notice to the Town for
inspection calls. Weekend and after-hours inspections may be arranged if Town
staffing allows. All after-hours inspections will be billed in advance at a
rate established by Town Council.
   B.   Town staff shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in
the enforcement of this article.
   C.   The Town reserves the right to require a third-party engineer to
conduct inspections, at the expense of the permittee. Third-party inspectors
must be preapproved by the Town.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-4-5: COMPLETION:
   A.   The permittee shall prosecute and complete all work covered by the
right-of way permit and shall restore the street to its original condition not
later than the date specified in the right-of-way permit.
   B.   Unless waived by the Town, a person designated by the permittee shall
provide the Town a certificate of completion stating the date for the work
performed (Including restoration), identifying the installer, the location at
which the work was performed, and certifying that work was completed according
to the requirements of the Town. If a utility or contractor has one outstanding
certificate, the Town reserves the right to withhold issuing future permits
until the certificates are submitted. The Town shall conduct an inspection
before the as-builts are submitted.
   C.   If necessary, the permittee shall submit “as built” drawings, maps,
and/or underground structure maintenance drawings after construction. The Town
can require a facility to be removed at the owner’s expense from a right-of-way
if it is in a nonpermitted location.
   D.   Extension required. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
after the completion date specified on the permit unless the person obtains an
extension prior to the completion date or obtains a new permit.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-4-6: EMERGENCY REPAIR:
In the event of any emergency in which a main, conduit or utility in or under
any street breaks, bursts or otherwise is in such condition as to immediately
endanger the property, life, health or safety of any individual, the person
owning or controlling such main, conduit or utility, without first applying for
and obtaining a right-of-way permit hereunder, shall immediately take proper
emergency measures to cure or remedy the dangerous conditions for the
protection of property, life, health and safety of individuals. The applicant
shall notify the Town as soon as possible of the event. Within two business
days after the occurrence of the emergency, the applicant shall apply for the
necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of
the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with the permit
requirements for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If a utility
is damaged and repaired within the excavation made by the primary permit
holder, an additional permit is not required; however, notification to the Town
is still required.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-4-7: WARRANTY:
   A.   All excavations will have to be guaranteed from deterioration for a
period of one year. If patch failure occurs, as determined by the Town, repair
will be made as per specified by the Town. After the repair, the excavation
shall be guaranteed for an additional one-year period.
   B.   From the issued date of the certificate of completion to one year, the
applicant will be responsible for all unsatisfactory conditions of subsidence,
asphalt repairs, poor drainage, vegetation, and Town-owned utilities that have
been disturbed, cut into or patched as a result of the subject work. Upon the
one-year anniversary date, the applicant will be notified, and the financial
guarantee returned.
   C.   Release of financial guarantee. No release of the financial guarantee
shall take place without the prior approval of the Town and after a physical
inspection by the Town.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-7-8: SITE CONDITIONS AND PERMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES:
The permittee is responsible and shall bear all costs associated with
maintaining and restoring the site conditions.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
7-7-9: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, corporation or legal entity who violates any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
under this chapter.
(Ord. 393, - -2024)
CHAPTER 5: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-5-1: Parking In Town Parking Lots
   
7-5-2: Parking During Winter Months
 
   
7-5-3: Penalty
7-5-1: PARKING IN TOWN PARKING LOTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle, mobile home, motor
home, house trailer or similar vehicle in any town parking lot for longer than
twenty-four consecutive hours or between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of every day.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park or store any tractor, tractor trailer,
farm machinery or other equipment, other than as provided in subsection (a)
hereof, on any Town parking lot for any period of time at all.
(Ord. 394, - -2024)
7-5-2: PARKING DURING WINTER MONTHS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the word “vehicle” shall
mean any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street or highway, including, but not limited to,
motor vehicles and trailers.
   B.   Time Period Parking Is Prohibited: Parking is prohibited on any town
street, town right-of-way, or town parking lot from two o’clock (2:00) A.M. to
six o’clock (6:00) A.M. from November 1 to March 31.
   C.   Removal By Town: In case any vehicles are parked or left standing on
any town street, town right-of-way, or town parking lot in violation of this
section, said vehicle or vehicles may be removed by or under the direction of
any police officer or town employee. Removal of the vehicle by or under the
direction of a police officer or town employee shall not prevent prosecution
under this section. Within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of removal of
any vehicle, notice of the removal or impounding, or both, together with the
designation of the pound, shall be given by the police officer or town employee
to the owner of record of such vehicle. Such notice may be made in person or by
telephone, when possible, and if not possible, by letter.
(Ord. 394, - -2024)
7-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, corporation, or legal entity who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
under this chapter.
(Ord. 394, - -2024)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC UTILITIES
WATER USE AND SERVICE   1
SEWAGE TREATMENT AND REGULATIONS   2
GENERAL PROVISIONS   2A
SEWER CONNECTIONS   2B
INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF SYSTEM   2C
USER FEES AND CHARGES   2D
ELECTRONIC AND COMMUNICATIONS LINES     3
CHAPTER 1: WATER USE AND SERVICE
Section
8-1-1: Reservation Of Rights
8-1-2: Management And Control Of Water System
8-1-3: Superintendent Of Water System
8-1-4: Connection; How Obtained; Connection Fees
8-1-5: New Developments And Nonresident Connection Fees
8-1-6: Permit Issuance
8-1-7: Connection Sizing
8-1-8: Water Meters
8-1-9: Service Pipe And Fittings
8-1-10: Required Depth
8-1-11: Connection Inspection And Approval
8-1-12: Connection Costs
8-1-13: Maintenance
8-1-14: Unauthorized Use Of Water
8-1-15: Town Not Liable For Damages
8-1-16: Inspection Of Property
8-1-17: Extension To More Than One Property
8-1-18: Proclamation Of Limited Use
8-1-19: User Charges
8-1-20: Frozen Water Service
8-1-21: Bills; When Due; Delinquency
8-1-22: Shutting Off Water
8-1-23: Restoration Following Voluntary Disconnection
8-1-24: Tampering With Water System
8-1-25: Unauthorized Turning On Of Water
8-1-26: Responsibility Of Balance Due
8-1-27: Penalty For Violations
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxx)
8-1-1: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
The use of water under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be
a relinquishment of any water or water right by the Town and the Town reserves
the full right to determine all matters in connection with the control and use
of such water.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-2: MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF WATER SYSTEM:
The Town shall have exclusive control and management of the Town water system,
and shall have the exclusive management and control of the supply and
distribution of water to all users within and without the corporate limits, and
shall make such rules and regulations as are necessary for the management,
control, distribution and supply of water to the users of the system.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-3: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER SYSTEM:
The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, shall appoint a
superintendent of the Town water system, who shall have immediate charge, under
the direction of the Mayor and Town Council, of such system, and of connections
to the system, alterations or additions to the system, and shall have
supervision of such system.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-4: CONNECTION; HOW OBTAINED; CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Application; Fees: Any person desiring to obtain a supply of water from
the Town water system shall submit an application to the Town Clerk. The
application is available at Town Hall or on the Town website. If any easements
are required in order for the applicant to connect to the Town water system,
the applicant shall supply such easement in written form, duly acknowledged,
along with the application. The fees for connection to the Town water system
shall be based upon the size of the pipe required for the service line running
from the City water main to the property of the applicant for the following
pipe sizes (meter size shall match the size of the service line running to the
property line).
 
Size Of Service Line            Impact Fee       Connection Fee
3/4 inch                        $6,800.00        $500.00
1 inch                          10,200.00        500.00
2 inch                          20,400.00        500.00
Fire line connection (up to 4") To be determined 500.00
                                by Council
 
   B.   Service Line Fees: Residential fees for service lines which fall
between and above the listed connection sizes shall be determined by the Town
Council.
   C.   Fire Suppression Systems: Buildings designed with fire suppression
systems shall have a separate connection and shall pay a standard connection
fee for lines up to four inches (4"). Fees for fire connections above four
inches (4") shall be determined by the Town Council.
   D.   When Fees Due: For applicants applying for water service to an existing
lot, both the impact fee and the connection fee are due at the time of
application. The connection fee shall be paid at the time of application for
water service to a lot. (Ord. 275; amd. Ord. 386, - -2023)
8-1-5: NEW DEVELOPMENTS AND NONRESIDENT CONNECTION FEES:
Impact fees and connection fees shall be one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
for new users outside of Town limits.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-6: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
If the Town Clerk determines that the application is complete, the Town Clerk
shall issue a permit for connection to the Town water system. When connection
has been completed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the
superintendent or owner shall provide the information regarding the connection
as specified on the permit and shall return the permit to the Town Clerk within
twenty four (24) hours after the completion of the connections. All such
completed permits shall be kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-7: CONNECTION SIZING:
The water service tap, service line and meter size shall be three-fourths inch
(3/4") for residences unless otherwise dictated by the latest edition of the
International Plumbing Code and approved by the Town. Service sizes for
commercial connections and multiple living units shall be sized in accordance
with the latest edition of the International Plumbing Code and approved by the
Town.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-8: WATER METERS:
   A.   Required; Owner Responsible For Cost: All connections to the Town water
system shall be metered with the exception of connections used exclusively for
fire suppression systems within buildings. Meter assemblies, including the
meter, radio, meter pit, setter, and service saddle shall be obtained from the
Town. The owner shall pay the actual cost of all equipment supplied by the
Town. Equipment costs are in addition to the connection fee paid by the owner.
   B.   Location; Installation: Meters shall be located at the property line at
a location approved by the Water Superintendent. If it is impractical to locate
the meter on the property line, the meter may be installed at a location
mutually agreed upon by the user and Water Superintendent and approved by the
Town Council. Should the meter be located on private property, the user and
Town shall sign an agreement allowing Town personnel access to the meter.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-9: SERVICE PIPE AND FITTINGS:
All service pipe shall be polyethylene conforming to the requirements of AWWA
C-901. Pipe shall be a pressure tubing class 160 with a DR of 11 at a minimum.
All fittings including service saddle, corporation stops, and compression
connections shall be copper alloy and shall be approved by the Water
Superintendent.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-10: REQUIRED DEPTH:
All service lines shall be laid six feet (6') below the established grade at
the point of connection of the service line onto the Town water line. Where the
Town line is of greater or less depth, the service line shall be brought to the
required depth as soon as possible after leaving the tap.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-11: CONNECTION INSPECTION AND APPROVAL:
No person except a licensed plumber, or a contractor who is authorized, in
writing, by the Water Superintendent, shall tap or connect onto any water pipes
belonging to the Town. Any damage to a Town water pipe that is caused by a
person performing a tap shall be repaired at the expense of the person
performing the tap. No street shall be opened or water pipe tapped or service
pipe laid unless the Water Superintendent has been notified in advance of such
action. All work pertaining to the connection onto the Town water system shall
be done in accordance with the directions of the Water Superintendent. No
excavation related to connection onto the water system shall be filled in until
the work has been inspected and approved by the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-12: CONNECTION COSTS:
The service line from the Town water main to the user's premises, including the
water meter assembly (meter box, setter and associated fittings), shall be
installed by the user at the user's sole cost.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-13: MAINTENANCE:
The owner of any property shall keep the service line and other equipment
related to the supply of water to such person's property in good working order
and repair.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-14: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER:
If any water consumer shall permit any other person from other premises or any
unauthorized person to use or obtain water from such consumer's property, the
supply of water of such consumer may be terminated. Any unauthorized person
taking water from another's property is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-15: TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES:
The Town shall not be liable to the users of any water for interruptions of
water supply, scarcity of water, accidents to the system or any part thereof,
or damage from frost, electrolysis, or any unavoidable causes.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-16: INSPECTION OF PROPERTY:
Free access shall be allowed at all reasonable hours to the Water
Superintendent, or to any other authorized person, to all places supplied with
water from the Town water system, to examine the amount of water used, the
manner of its use to obtain a test sample, or to ascertain any matter
pertaining to the use of water from the Town water system and the charges made
thereof.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-17: EXTENSION TO MORE THAN ONE PROPERTY:
Unless otherwise authorized by the Town Council, each property shall be
supplied water by its own service line, and no connection with the water system
shall be made by extending the service line from one property to another
property.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-18: PROCLAMATION OF LIMITED USE:
   A.   Authorized: In time of scarcity or when the system is unable to supply
a sufficient amount of water for all purposes, the Mayor by proclamation may
limit the use of water for other than domestic purposes to such extent as may
be necessary for the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Penalty: If, after the Mayor has issued a proclamation regulating the
use of water, any person or persons, by himself or through his family, servant
or agent, violates the provisions of such proclamation, person or persons will
be such guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-19: USER CHARGES:
   A.   Basic Charge: The basic charge for use of water from the Town water
system shall be thirty four dollars seventy five cents ($34.75) per month,
which shall be adjusted to the number of equivalent connections utilized by
each user on the system, minimum being one. Each paid equivalent connection is
entitled to use up to thirty thousand (30,000) gallons in a given month when
water usage is metered. One bill will be sent per meter regardless of
equivalent connections.
   B.   Excess Of Base Volume: All water used in excess of the base volume by
any connection in a month, when metered, will be charged one dollar fifty cents
($1.50) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. The Town will not charge for water
used above the base amount of thirty thousand (30,000) gallons per month from
the first business day of November to the first business day of May to
encourage users to leave a small stream of water running to prevent freezing of
service lines.
   C.   Classifications, Equivalent Connections: Users shall have the following
classifications and equivalent connections:
Water Classification Number of Equivalent Connections
Water Classification                          Number of Equivalent Connections
Single-family residence (¾" tap and meter)   1
Single-family residence (1" tap and meter)    1.5
Per apartment/condominium/duplex/town home    1
Bank                                          1
Bar/club/tavern/saloon                        1
Barber shop/beauty saloon (per chair/operator .5
station)
Bowling alley (per lane)                      .2
Cafe/restaurant                               2
Car dealer                                    2
Car wash                                      3
Church                                        2
Dry cleaners                                  1
Garage/service station                        1
Hospital (per bed)                            .15
Laundries/laundry mater (per washing machine) .25
Meat processing plant                         1.5
Mobile/food truck                             .5
Mobile home court or park (per space)         1
Motel/hotel                                   Main lodge 1
                                              Each additional room .25
Office building/retail store                  1
Grocery stores/retail food store (per 2,5000  1
square feet)
Schools                                       2
Swimming pools                                1
Theater                                       1
 
   D.   Larger Meters; Uses Not Listed: The Town shall determine equivalent
connections for any residence requiring a service and meter larger than one
inch (1") and any other use not listed above, at the time of approval of an
application for connection to the Town water system.
   E.   Users Outside Town: When water service is provided to users outside the
Town limits, the rate shall be one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
regular basic user charges, which shall be adjusted to the number of equivalent
connections utilized by each user on the system. Each paid equivalent
connection is entitled to use up to thirty thousand (30,000) gallons in a given
month when water usage is metered.
(Ord. 321, 6-15-2017; amd. Ord. 338, 4-29-2019; Ord. 386, - -2023)
8-1-20: FROZEN WATER SERVICE:
The Town is not responsible for the cost of repairing or thawing of water
service lines. The entire water service line from the main line to the user's
point of use is the responsibility of the property owner. Water users are
responsible for all freeze damage and service interruption due to service line
freezing. Water meter damage from freezing will be repaired at the user's
expense.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-21: BILLS; WHEN DUE; DELINQUENCY:
All bills for water service are payable monthly and are due on the last
business day of the month. A late payment penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) will
be assessed each billing cycle on accounts that are delinquent. Interest will
be charged on delinquent accounts at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/
2%), compounded, for each full billing period or portion of a billing period
that the account is delinquent. Account will be considered delinquent if
payment has not been received by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the last business
day of the billing month, and a reasonable attorney fee for collection of the
same may be recovered by the Town. Any exception will require Council approval.
(Ord. 321, 6-15-2017)
8-1-22: SHUTTING OFF WATER:
   A.   Authorized: Water service may be shut off when water use charges for
any property have been delinquent and unpaid for more than two (2) months. The
Water Superintendent shall have the authority to shut off the water from the
property until such delinquent charges, together with such other costs as may
have accrued, shall have been paid in full.
   B.   Notice Not Required: Notice shall not be required to the owner, lessee
or any occupant of the property before shutting off such water, and this
subsection shall be deemed notice to all persons interested that water supplied
to any property may be shut off unless charges for such water are paid before
the same becomes delinquent.
   C.   Charges: When charges for water are unpaid, or for any other reason due
to the violation of the provisions of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
adopted hereunder, the water supply to any property is shut off, before the
same is again turned on, the Water Superintendent or the Town Clerk shall
charge and collect, in addition to all delinquent water use charges, a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for turning on such water service.
   D.   Restoration Of Water Service: When account balance is paid in full and
all fees have been paid, the water will be turned back on within 48 hours
unless payment is received on a Friday and as such the 48 hours will not start
until the following business day.
(Ord. 275; amd. Ord. 386, - -2023)
8-1-23: RESTORATION FOLLOWING VOLUNTARY DISCONNECTION:
When water service is disconnected to a water user at the request of such user,
the Water Superintendent or the Town Clerk shall charge a vacation rate of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per equivalent connection while during such
time that service is disconnected. The consumer shall be charged a reconnection
fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00). User charges applicable to restored water
service shall be prorated from the first day of the month in which the water
service is restored.
(Ord. 295, 9-19-2013)
8-1-24: TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM:
Any person not acting in an official capacity as a representative of the Town
or the Fire Department who shall open any hydrant and allow water to escape
thereof, or shall in any manner interfere with or damage the Town water system
or any portion thereof, or shall turn off or on any water service without the
approval of the Water Superintendent, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-25: UNAUTHORIZED TURNING ON OF WATER:
Any person whose water service has been terminated or shut off due to
nonpayment of user charges or for any other reason turns the water on, or
permits the water to be turned on, or uses or permits the water to be used
without authorization from the Town, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 275)
8-1-26: RESPONSIBILITY OF BALANCE DUE:
Regardless of if a water bill is received or not the user is responsible for
the balance due.
(Ord. 386, - -2023)
8-1-27: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, except in cases where a specific
penalty is pervaded, shall be subject to section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 275; amd. Ord. 386, - -2023)
CHAPTER 2: SEWAGE TREATMENT AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
8-2A-1: Definitions
8-2A-2: Ownership, Management And Control Of Sewage Treatment System
8-2A-3: Commissioner Of Sewage Treatment System
8-2A-4: Authority To Classify Property And Modify Rates
8-2A-5: Adoption Of Additional Rules And Regulations
8-2A-6: Power And Duties Of Administrative Officials
8-2A-7: Permit Required For Alteration Of Service Line
8-2A-8: Separate Service Line Required For Each Property; Plumbing Fixtures To
Be Connected By Property Owner Upon Notice
8-2A-9: Sand And Grease Traps Required For Establishments Having Wash Or Grease
Racks
8-2A-10: Depositing Injurious Material Into System
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxx)
8-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
SEWER SERVICE LINE: The sewer line running from the Municipal sewer main to the
structure or property to be served.
SEWER UTILITY: All sanitary sewers, sewage treatment works, equipment,
materials and supplies used by the Municipality to collect and dispose of
sewage from property in the Municipality and property served by Municipal
sewers outside the Municipality; provided, that a sewer service line shall be
regarded as the property of the owner of such structure or property served.
(1982 Code § 12.01.010)
8-2A-2: OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM:
The sewage treatment system of the Town shall be owned, maintained, controlled
and managed exclusively by the Town, and through such agents and
representatives as are duly appointed by the Mayor and Town Council.
(1982 Code § 12.01.020)
8-2A-3: COMMISSIONER OF SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM:
The commissioner of the sewage treatment system shall be the Sewer and Water
Commissioner of the Town, who shall be appointed by and have such powers and
duties as prescribed by the Town Council.
(1982 Code § 12.01.030)
8-2A-4: AUTHORITY TO CLASSIFY PROPERTY AND MODIFY RATES:
The Town Council shall have the right to determine, define and classify all
residences, businesses and other properties, and to increase, modify or revise
by ordinance the rates and charges established for the provision of sewer
utility services to such properties.
(1982 Code § 12.01.040)
8-2A-5: ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Town may, from time to time, promulgate such rules and regulations as it
considers necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter; provided, that
such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with this chapter.
(1982 Code § 12.01.050)
8-2A-6: POWER AND DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
The Town shall cause to be inspected all openings made in any sewer and all
connections made to the sewer utility. It shall take such action as it deems
necessary to prevent injury or damage to the sewer utility and to prevent
interference with the free flow of sewage.
(1982 Code § 12.01.060)
8-2A-7: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ALTERATION OF SERVICE LINE:
It shall be unlawful to extend any sewer service line or to change, enlarge or
alter the use of any sewer service line connected to the sewer utility without
first obtaining a permit therefor. No such permit shall be issued to property
situated outside the Municipality, except under such terms and conditions as
the governing body shall provide.
(1982 Code § 12.01.070)
8-2A-8: SEPARATE SERVICE LINE REQUIRED FOR EACH PROPERTY; PLUMBING FIXTURES TO
BE CONNECTED BY PROPERTY OWNER UPON NOTICE:
Each property shall be served by its own sewer service line. All plumbing
fixtures in any building or structure on and land adjoining to or abutting on
or near any street or alley or other place through which there is a public or
private sewer connected with the sanitary sewer utility of the Municipality
shall be connected by the owner of the property or his agent or other persons
having charge of or receiving the rent or being the tenant of the same, with
such public or private sewer upon notice from the Municipality. Such notice
shall be served upon the owner of such property by registered or certified mail
to his last known address; provided, that this section shall not be construed
as prohibiting a single service line to serve a single structure under one roof
occupying more than one property.
(1982 Code § 12.01.080)
8-2A-9: SAND AND GREASE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR ESTABLISHMENTS HAVING WASH OR GREASE
RACKS:
All filling stations, garages, restaurants and similar places having wash or
grease racks connected with the sewer utility shall be provided with a sand and
grease trap of suitable sizes and construction.
(1982 Code § 12.01.090)
8-2A-10: DEPOSITING INJURIOUS MATERIAL INTO SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit or cause or permit to be deposited in
any vessel or receptacle connected with the sewer utility any petroleum
products, volatiles, acids, highly alkaline solutions or any other matter
whatsoever, which shall in any way be injurious to the system or the treatment
process at the treatment plant, or which shall in any way cause undue
maintenance of the system or the sewage plant.
(1982 Code § 12.01.100)
ARTICLE B. SEWER CONNECTIONS
Section
8-2B-1: Connection Required; Exceptions
8-2B-2: Connections Made Before Paving Adjacent Street
8-2B-3: Permit Required
8-2B-4: Application For Permit
8-2B-5: Contents; Fees
8-2B-6: Types Of Permits Issued
8-2B-7: Plumbing Inspected Before Connections Made
8-2B-8: Connection Of Water Drains, Downspouts, Etc.
8-2B-9: Connection Fee For Sewer Service
8-2B-1: CONNECTION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any cesspool, septic tank,
privy or other private sewer system whatsoever to service any sewer user within
the corporate limits of the Town if such user has reasonable or practical
access to the Town sewer system. It is hereby required that each and every
sewer user within the corporate limits of the Town having reasonable or
practical access to the Town sewer system shall connect onto the Town sewer
system and utilize the same. Any sewer user in violation of this section shall
be subject to provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code, and shall also be billed for a monthly sewer user's fee
according to the sewer user’s classification for such user as of the date when
water was first supplied to the user’s property.
(1982 Code § 12.02.010)
8-2B-2: CONNECTIONS MADE BEFORE PAVING ADJACENT STREET:
Before any street or alley is paved, the owners of all property abutting
thereon where a sanitary sewer is laid shall make property sewer connections
with such sanitary sewer, whether the immediate use thereof is required or not.
Until used, such connecting sewers shall be supplied with a proper cap or
covering sufficient to prevent the escape of sewer gas.
(1982 Code § 12.02.020)
8-2B-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall make any connection to or uncover or open any Municipal sewer
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Town Clerk.
(1982 Code § 12.02.030)
8-2B-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring to make any connection to the sewer utility shall make
written application to the Town Clerk for a permit. All such applications must
contain a description of the property to be connected, the kind and sizes of
the service line and the kinds of fixtures to be served.
(1982 Code § 12.02.040)
8-2B-5: CONTENTS; FEES:
The permit shall state the name and address of the person making the connection
or excavation, the property to be served, the location of the tap to the
Municipal sewer main and the size of the tap. No permit shall be issued unless
the fees prescribed by the Municipality are tendered with the application for a
permit. Such fees shall be as are established from time to time by the
governing body.
(1982 Code § 12.02.050)
8-2B-6: TYPES OF PERMIT ISSUED:
The following types of permits shall be issued for connecting to the sewer
utility:
A.   Permits to run a sewer service line from the sewer main to the property
line of the property to be served.
B.   Permits to run a sewer service line from the sewer main to the structure
or building to be served.
C.   Permits to run a sewer from the stubbed-in service at the property line to
the building or other structure to be served.
D.   Permits to connect a sewer service line to the sewer utility to serve
property outside the Municipality; provided, that no permit shall be issued to
connect with the sewer utility to serve property lying outside the Municipality
except with the express consent of the governing body and under such terms and
conditions as the governing body may by resolution prescribe.
E.   Permits to renew any of the sewer service lines provided for in this
section.
(1982 Code § 12.02.060)
8-2B-7: PLUMBING INSPECTED BEFORE CONNECTIONS MADE:
All plumbing shall be subject to inspection by the Town or its authorized
representatives, in order to ascertain whether the requirements of this chapter
have been or are being complied with. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause any plumbing within or outside the Municipality to be connected with the
sewer utility of the Municipality until such plumbing shall have been inspected
and approved and a certificate or tag of approval issued by the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 12.02.070)
8-2B-8: CONNECTION OF WATER DRAINS, DOWNSPOUTS, ETC.:
It shall be unlawful to connect any storm water drains, downspouts, subsurface
drainage system or steam exhausts or blowoff from a steam boiler to the
sanitary system.
(1982 Code § 2.02.080)
8-2B-9: CONNECTION FEE FOR SEWER SERVICE:
A new sewer user, upon application for water and sewer service, shall pay in
advance the connection fees as established by the Town Council from time to
time.
(1982 Code § 12.02.090)
ARTICLE C. INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF SYSTEM
Section
8-2C-1: Service Lines
8-2C-2: Backfilling Of Trenches
8-2C-3: Maintenance Of Inside Of Service Lines
8-2C-4: Property Owner Responsible For Cost Of Installing, Repairing Service
Lines
8-2C-5: Method And Specifications For Making Connections To Sewer Mains
8-2C-6: Construction Of Sewers In Subdivisions
8-2C-7: Extension Of Sewer To Serve Property Within Municipality Not Part Of
Subdivision
8-2C-8: Nongravity Lines
8-2C-9: Extension Of Service Outside Municipality
8-2C-1: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Requirements Of Installation: All pipe used in making any sewer tap or
installation or connection shall be standard approved sewer pipe or polyvinyl
chloride pipe (PVC) not less than four inches (4") in diameter. The pipe and
fittings used for the sewer system lines shall conform to the following
applicable specifications:
      1.   Fittings: The pipe and fittings shall be bell and spigot, sealed
with rubber gasket joining material. Rubber gaskets shall conform to the
requirements of ASTM Specification C-564.
      2.   Nonreinforced Concrete Sewer Pipe: Nonreinforced concrete sewer pipe
shall be either standard strength or extra strength. Concrete pipe shall
conform to the requirements of ASTM Specification C-14. The pipe shall be bell
and spigot type, sealing by means of flexible, watertight rubber gaskets. The
joints and gasket material shall conform to the requirements of ASTM
Specification C-443.
      3.   Plastic Sewer Pipe And Fittings (For Nonpressure System): Plastic
sewer pipe shall be, unless otherwise indicated, any one of the two (2)
following materials:
         a.   ABS (Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene) pipe as specified in
paragraph 6.
         b.   PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride) pipe as specified in paragraph 5.
         c.   SR (Rubber Modified Styrene) pipe which must conform to
Commercial Standard CS-228 and meet the Federal Housing Administration Bulletin
UM-26.
      4.   Truss Sewer Pipe: Truss sewer pipe shall be manufactured by
extruding ABS (Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene) thermoplastic into a truss with
inner and outer walls connected by webs. Joints shall be either a compression
gasket or a chemical weld sleeve. The pipe and joints shall conform to the
requirements of ASTM Specification D-2680.
      5.   Plastic Sewer Pipe And Fittings (For Pressure Or Nonpressure
Systems) Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Plastic Pipe (SDR-PR): The Polyvinyl Chloride
(PVC) shall be one hundred twenty five (125) psi or greater, rigid plastic pipe
with integral thickened wall bells. Pipe shall be suitable for use at maximum
hydrostatic working pressure of one hundred twenty five (125) psi at seventy
three degrees Fahrenheit (73°F). All pipe must meet requirements as set forth
in ASTM D-1784. Provisions must be made for contraction and expansion at each
joint with a rubber ring and integral bell as part of each joint and meet the
requirements of ASTM Specification D-1784. PVC pipe with factory installed
couplings or integral thickened wall bells with ring seals will be acceptable.
      6.   Plastic Sewer Pipe And Fittings (For Pressure Or Nonpressure
Systems) Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene (ABS): The ABS pipe shall be schedule
40 or schedule 80. The pipe shall have integral thickened wall bells. Pipe
shall be suitable for use at maximum hydrostatic working pressure of one
hundred twenty five (125) psi at seventy three degrees Fahrenheit (73°F). All
pipe must meet the requirements as set forth in AST D-1527. Provisions must be
made for contraction and expansion at each joint with a rubber ring and
integral bell as part of each joint. Pipe with factory installed couplings or
integral thickened wall bells with ring seals will be accepted.
   B.   Installation Of Pipelines, Fittings And Accessories: All pipe, fittings
and accessories should be hand-led and lain in strict conformance to the
manufacturer's recommendations.
      1.   General: Pipes shall be laid straight on a minimum slope of one-
eighth inch (1/8") per foot. Each section of the pipe shall rest upon the pipe
bed for the full length of its barrel, with recesses excavated to accommodate
bells and joints. Any pipe that has its grade or joint disturbed after laying
shall be taken up and relaid. The interior of the pipe shall be cleaned of all
foreign matter before being lowered into the trench and shall be kept clean
during laying operations. Under no circumstances shall pipe be laid in water,
and no pipe shall be laid when trench conditions or the weather is unsuitable
for such work, except by permission of the inspector. At all times when work is
not in progress, all open ends of pipe and fittings shall be securely closed to
the satisfaction of the inspector so that no trench water, rodents, earth, or
other substance will enter the pipe or fittings. Any section of pipe already
laid and found to be defective shall be taken up and replaced with new pipe at
the owner's expense. Where sewer lines cross over water lines or if they are
less than eighteen inches (18") lower than water lines, the sewer pipe shall be
ductile iron, for a distance of ten feet (10') each side of the water pipe, or
the sewer pipe shall be encased in concrete at least six inches (6") thick
around the pipe for ten feet (10') each side of the water pipe.
      2.   Cutting And Handling Pipe: Cutting of pipe for closure pieces, or
for other reasons, shall be done by methods which will not damage the pipe. The
pipe shall be handled in such a manner as to ensure delivery in good, undamaged
condition. Particular care shall be exercised not to injure the pipe surfaces
or coatings. Damaged pipe shall not be used in the work.
      3.   Laying The Line: The laying of the sewer line shall commence at the
lowest point along the line with the spigot ends pointing in the direction of
flow. Each length of pipe shall be laid true to line and grade and in such a
manner as to form a close concentric joint with the adjoining pipe to prevent
sudden offsets of the flow line. As the work progresses, the sewer pipe shall
be cleaned of all dirt and other superfluous materials. Where cleaning after
laying is difficult because of small pipe size, suitable swabs or drags shall
be kept in the pipe and pulled forward after each joint is completed. The
proper bends shall be used in order to follow the line and grade desired.
      4.   Pipe Joints: Joints shall be made, using the joining materials and
applied with the proper accessories, in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions. The joints shall be adjusted and the work performed in a manner
so as to obtain the degree of water rightness required, as specified. As the
joints are progressively made, sufficient backfill should be placed along the
barrel of each pipe to hold it in place while the next joint or joints are
made. All branch lines shall be connected using a forty five degree (45°) Y.
The Y-branch shall enter in the direction of flow. Plugs for future connections
shall be of a permanent type and approved by the inspector. Drains, control
valves, and controlling devices shall be installed in the pipelines where
called for on the drawings, indicated on the ground, or designated by the
inspector.
      5.   Testing: Testing shall be done in the presence of the inspector on
all pipelines installed according to one of the respective tests below. Testing
may be waived by the inspector.
         a.   Pressure Lines: These lines shall be flushed clean and filled
with water, being careful to eliminate all entrapped air, and brought up to an
internal pressure of 1.5 total design head at the low point in the line. The
allowable leakage per one hundred (100) joints per hour for three inch (3")
pipe will be 0.37 gallons; for four inch (4") pipe, 0.50 gallons; for six inch
(6") pipe, 0.75 gallons. This pressure and leakage test shall be run for a
minimum of eight (8) hours. If the test leakage in any section is greater than
that permitted, the leaks shall be located, repairs made, and the section of
pipeline retested until the leakage is within the permitted allowance. Any
visible leak shall be repaired.
         b.   Leakage Tests On Gravity Lines:
            (1)   Each section of the line shall be flushed and cleaned before
it shall be hydrostatically tested upon completion by plugging the lower end of
the section to be tested and the inlet pipe(s) with stopper and filling the
pipe with water.
            (2)   Sewer lines will not be acceptable where the loss of water
exceeds 0.02 gallons per minute, per inch diameter, per one thousand feet
(1,000') of line being tested. All observable leaks shall be repaired even
though the total leakage exceeds the allowable, the pipe shall be overhauled,
and, if necessary, relaid until the test proves satisfactory. If the difference
in head between manholes is excessive, contractor may have to test using pipe
stoppers or he may elect to use only an air test.
            (3)   If the pipe installation fails to meet these requirements,
the pipe shall be overhauled and, if necessary, relaid until the test proves
satisfactory.
      6.   Damage To System: Any existing improvements which may be interfered
with or injured in any way in making such taps, connections, or installations
shall be restored in as good a condition as they were in before such
interference or injury.
      7.   Surface Drainage: No connection shall be constructed in such a
manner as to permit the entrance of surface drainage, and suitable provision
shall be made to prevent the entrance of mud or silt into any such connection.
(1982 Code § 12.03.010)
8-2C-2: BACKFILLING OF TRENCHES:
Backfilling of sewer system line trenches shall be hard packed with care and
well rammed to prevent the slightest settling of the trenches.
(1982 Code § 12.03.020)
8-2C-3: MAINTENANCE OF INSIDE OF SERVICE LINES:
The inside of every sewer system line connecting with the sewer utility shall
be left smooth and perfectly clean throughout its entire length and the ends of
all lines not to be immediately used shall be securely guarded against the
introduction of earth, sand or other foreign material by bricks and cement or
other watertight and impervious material.
(1982 Code § 12.03.030)
8-2C-4: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COST OF INSTALLING, REPAIRING SERVICE
LINES:
The cost of installing the sewer system line shall be paid by the property
owner. The owners of the property served by a sewer system line shall be
responsible for repairing or replacing such sewer service line when, in the
opinion of the administrative official, such line has become inoperative due to
stoppages, crushing, settlement or any other defect.
(1982 Code § 12.03.040)
8-2C-5: METHOD AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MAKING CONNECTIONS TO SEWER MAINS:
Whenever a sewer connection shall be made, the required trench shall be opened
an ample width to permit easy inspection and the removal of all rubbish. If
there is no junction piece in the sewer, a connection may be made by inserting
into the sewer a “T” saddle of the size specified in the permit required
therefor. After making the opening, which shall be done with great care so as
to not injure the sewer, all rubbish shall be carefully removed from inside the
main sewer. All connections of one line of sewer pipe with another shall be
made with “Y” branches or “T” saddles and long radius eighth bends. The
interior of each length of pipe and the inside of the last joint shall be made
perfectly clean before the next joint is laid. All joints of vitrified clay
pipe shall be set in an approved mastic type joint filler. Slip on type joints
of a type approved by the Town shall be acceptable. The “T” saddle may be
inserted into the sewer and set even with the inside of the sewer on a bed of
mortar and the opening around the pipe carefully repaired and well plastered
with pipe. A “Y” junction or “T” saddle shall be used and the main sewer left
in as good a condition as before the work was done. When a connection is made
to a sewer main, the service line shall be connected thereto until the
connection has been inspected and approved by the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 12.03.050)
8-2C-6: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS IN SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Main Extension Contract Required: No sewer shall be constructed in a
platted subdivision until the subdivider and the Municipality have executed a
sewer main extension contract.
(1982 Code § 12.03.060)
   B.   Subdivider To Install Mains After Approval Of Plans And Inspection,
Exception: The subdivider shall install the mains in his subdivision by
contract upon approval of the plans and specifications by the Municipality,
execution of sewer extension contract and Municipal inspection of actual
construction; provided, that the Municipality may elect to install the mains,
in which case the subdivider shall deposit with the Municipality the estimated
cost of the sewer construction, plus engineering and administrative costs. The
Municipality shall then proceed to construct the sewer under contract. If at
any time the actual cost exceeds the amount deposited, the subdivider shall
immediately deposit sufficient funds to complete the work.
(1982 Code § 12.03.070)
   C.   Subdivider To Pay Cost Of Construction Of Mains; Mains To Be Extended
To Farthest Points Of Upgrade: The subdivider shall pay the costs of
construction of all sewer mains and appurtenances to, in and through his
subdivision, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. Sewer mains shall
always be extended to the farthest points upgrade in a platted subdivision so
that the system may be perpetuated.
(1982 Code § 12.03.080)
   D.   Undeveloped Areas: When a subdivider finds it necessary to construct a
sewer through undeveloped areas to serve his platted subdivision, the entire
cost of such sewer line shall be paid by the subdivider unless the oversize
main provisions of subsection B of this section are applicable. At the time of
annexation or as the property abutting such sewer is developed and connections
are made to the sewer, the Municipality may collect a charge per front foot
based upon the original construction cost and if so collected shall reimburse
the original subdivider to the extent of the collections so made; provided,
that in no event shall such reimbursement exceed the total cost of the sewer. A
subdivider's right to reimbursement under the provisions of this section shall
terminate fifteen (15) years after execution of the sewer extension contract.
(1982 Code § 12.03.090)
8-2C-7: EXTENSION OF SEWER TO SERVE PROPERTY WITHIN MUNICIPALITY NOT PART OF
SUBDIVISION:
Extension of sewers to serve property within the Municipality, but not a part
of a subdivision, shall be financed by special assessments against the
benefitted property or under such terms and conditions as the governing body
shall provide.
(1982 Code § 12.03.100)
8-2C-8: NONGRAVITY LINES:
   A.   Pumping Stations Generally: When pumping stations are required, the
cost of constructing such stations shall be the responsibility of the property
served thereby. In those instances where it appears that more than one
subdivision may be served by the pump station, the Municipality may require a
larger capacity than that necessary to serve the initial development. Where
such larger capacity is required the additional cost may be paid by the sewer
utility and thereafter collected from other property owners or subdividers
connecting to lines served by the pump station. Such charges shall be paid
prior to the time any connections are made.
(1982 Code § 12.03.110)
   B.   Force Mains Serving Areas Not Otherwise Able To Enter Sewer Utility:
Force mains required to serve an area not otherwise able to enter the
Municipality's sewerage system shall be constructed at the expense of the
owners of the property to be served thereby. (1982 Code § 12.03.120)
   C.   Tie Into Gravity Lines: In those instances where pumping stations and
force mains are required, the sewerage system shall be designed so as to permit
an eventual connection into a gravity system with a minimum of expense. Where
practicable, easements shall be provided and lines constructed to tie into the
gravity system. The Municipality may require deposits, where deemed necessary,
from the property owners requiring such force system to ensure the eventual
construction of gravity lines.
(1982 Code § 12.03.130)
8-2C-9: EXTENSION OF SERVICE OUTSIDE MUNICIPALITY:
   A.   Authority Of Governing Body: The governing body may, in its sole
discretion, enter into agreements with customers whose lands lie outside the
corporate limits, to extend the Municipality's sewer system for the use, needs
and requirements of such customers.
(1982 Code § 12.03.140)
   B.   Findings Prerequisite To Agreement:
      1.   The extension of sewer service is economically feasible.
      2.   The property to be served is readily adaptable to and can be made to
conform, within a reasonable time to be fixed by the governing body, to the
then existing ordinances of the Municipality which relate to subdivision,
platting, zoning and construction of improvements.
      3.   The property to be served is not currently contiguous to the
Municipality limits and cannot therefore be annexed to the Municipality
pursuant to the laws of the State, but that such property can reasonably be
expected to be annexable to the Municipality within the foreseeable future.
      4.   Such extension would help promote the orderly growth and development
of the Municipality.
      5.   Such extension would help promote the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the Municipality.
      6.   Such extension would help promote ecological and aesthetic
considerations in the growth and development of the Municipality.
      7.   Such extension is generally in the best interests of the citizens of
the Municipality.
(1982 Code § 12.03.150)
ARTICLE D. USER FEES AND CHARGES
Section
8-2D-1: Methodology For Determination Of User Charge Classification
8-2D-2: User Charges
8-2D-3: Service Outside Municipality
8-2D-4: Bills, Delivery, Delinquency
8-2D-5: Liability For Sewer Fees
8-2D-6: Lien Against Property
8-2D-7: Fees And Charges
8-2D-1: METHODOLOGY FOR DETERMINATION OF USER CHARGE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Determine Total Annual Costs: The Town shall determine the total annual
costs of operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary
to maintain the capacity and performance during the service life of the
treatment works.
   B.   Included Costs: The total annual cost for operation and maintenance
shall include, but not be limited to, labor, equipment replacement, repairs,
maintenance, necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory charges,
capital replacement, and a reasonable contingency fund.
   C.   Scope: Actual computation of user equivalent connection ratings and
determination of monthly user charges shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code § 12.04.010)
8-2D-2: USER CHARGES:
   A.   Basic Charge; Equivalent Connection Schedule: The basic charge for
discharge of sewer to the Town sewer system shall be thirty dollars twenty five
cents ($30.25) per month, which shall be adjusted to the number of equivalent
connections utilized by each user on the system minimum being one according to
the schedule and user charge system formula as follows:
(Ord. 322, 6-15-2017)
EQUIVALENT CONNECTION SCHEDULE
Sewer Classification Number of Equivalent Connections
Sewer Classification                         Number of Equivalent Connections
Single-family residence                      1
Apartment/condominium/duplex/town home       1
Bank                                         1
Bar/club/tavern/saloon                       1
Barber shop/beauty salon (per chair/operator .5
station)
Bowling alley (per lane)                     .2
Cafe/restaurant                              2
Car dealer                                   2
Car wash                                     3
Church                                       2
Dry cleaner                                  1
Garage/service station                       1
Grocery store/retail food store (per 2,500   1
square feet)
Hospital (per bed)                           .15
Laundries/laundry mat (per washing machine)  .25
Meat processing plant                        1.5
Mobile home court or part (per space)        1
Motel/hotel                                  Main lodge 1
                                             Each additional room .25
Office building/retail store                 1
Schools                                      2
Sewer/RV dumps                               2
Swimming pools                               1
Theater                                      1
 
   B.   Annual Establishment Of User Charges: The Town will establish user
charges on an annual basis, and such charges shall be based upon the costs of
operation, maintenance and administration of the Town sewer system, plus the
retirement of the bond obligation incurred in connection with the construction
of the Town sewer system. The monthly user charge shall be the equivalent
connection charge multiplied times the equivalent connection rating for each
user. The equivalent connection charge will be determined annually by dividing
the sewage system budget by the total number of equivalent connections. The
user charge for any use not described in the equivalent connection schedule
shall be determined upon application for such use by the Town Council.
(1982 Code § 12.05.010)
8-2D-3: SERVICE OUTSIDE MUNICIPALITY:
The charge for sewer service outside the Municipality shall be one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) that for sewer service within the Municipality,
unless otherwise provided by the governing body.
(1982 Code § 12.06.010)
8-2D-3: NEW DEVELOPMENTS AND NONRESIDENT CONNECTION FEES:
Impact fees and connection fees shall be one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
for users outside of the Town Limits.
(Ord. 276)
8-2D-4: BILLS, DELIVERY, DELINQUENCY:
It shall be the duty of the proper agents of the Town to mail or deliver to
each user connected to the Town sewer system a regular bill for sewer services
rendered on a monthly basis. Failure of the delivery or receipt of such bill
shall not relieve such user of his obligation thereunder. Such bills shall be
rendered with and as part of the regular utility bill of the Town. Interest
will be charged on delinquent accounts at the rate of one and one-half percent
(11/2%), compounded, for each full billing period or portion of a billing
period that the account is delinquent. Accounts will be considered delinquent
if payment has not been received by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the last
business day of the billing month, and a reasonable attorney fee for collection
of the same, may be recovered by the Town. Any exception will require Council
approval. As part of the consideration for the issuance of any sewer revenue
bonds issued by the Town, and not withstanding any remedies which the owners or
holders of such bonds may have, the Town assumes and agrees promptly to take
whatever action may be necessary to enforce and collect such charges as may be
levied against such users.
(Ord. 322, 6-51-2017)
8-2D-5: LIABILITY FOR SEWER FEES:
Personal liability for payment for any and all sewer services rendered to any
sewer user shall lie with the record title holders of the real property
serviced.
(1982 Code § 12.08.010)
8-2D-6: LIEN AGAINST THE PROPERTY
Delinquent sewer charges shall constitute a lien against the real property
serviced by the system. The Town is hereby empowered to use any legal means
necessary to foreclose on the said lien, or to otherwise collect such
delinquent charges. Additional expenses incurred by reason of such action shall
be added to the amount due from the delinquent user.
(1982 Code § 12.09.010)
8-2D-7: FEES AND CHARGES:
Connection fees for sewer service lines shall have two (2) parts, an impact fee
and a connection fee. Both fees will be due when the user makes application to
the Town for sewer service. The impact fee for sewer shall be seven thousand
three hundred dollars ($7,300.00) and the connection fee shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00). For out of town residences, the impact and connection fee
will be double.
(Ord. 276; amd. Ord. 386, - -2023)
CHAPTER 3: ELECTRONIC AND COMMUNICATION LINES
Section
   
8-3-1: Requirements For New Subdivisions
   
8-3-2: Installation In New Developments
   
8-3-3: Repair And Maintenance Of Existing Overhead Installations
   
8-3-4: Exceptions
 
   
8-3-5: Penalty
8-3-1: REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
All new subdivisions shall provide electrical and communications services to
each lot created as part of the subdivision improvement.
(Ord. 380, - -2023)
8-3-2: INSTALLATION IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   All permanent electric, high voltage electric transmission lines in
excess of sixty-nine (69) kilovolts’ capacity, telephone lines, electric
utility distribution lines, cable television lines, and all other communication
and utility lines shall be placed underground when installed in the following
areas or when installed for the following types of customers:
      1.   In all new residential subdivisions or plats, whether for single-
family residences or multiple dwellings.
      2.   To all new commercial or industrial developments.
   B.   All owners, platters, or developers of the types of development listed
in subsection
8-3-2 of this section are responsible for complying with the requirements of
this section and, prior to the final approval of any plat or development plan
or permit issuance, shall submit to the city planning commission written
instruments from the appropriate utility companies showing that all necessary
arrangements with said companies for underground installation of such
facilities have been made.
(Ord. 380, - -2023)
8-3-3: REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING OVERHEAD INSTALLATIONS:
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the repair, maintenance,
reconstruction, replacement, or modification of existing overhead utility
lines.
(Ord. 380, - -2023)
8-3-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The requirements of this section shall apply unless the town council
specifically shall find that, with recommendation from the utility company:
   A.   The placing of utilities underground would not be compatible with the
planned, existing, or surrounding development; or
   B.   The additional cost of undergrounding such utilities would create an
undue financial hardship; or
   C.   Topographical, soil, or any other conditions make the underground
installation unreasonable or impractical.
(Ord. 380, - -2023)
8-3-5: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished upon conviction as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(Ord. 380, - -2023)
TITLE 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
BUILDING REQUIREMENTS AND PERMITS   1
MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS    2
 
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS AND PERMITS
Section
9-1-1: Permit Required
9-1-2: Fees
9-1-3: Sewer And Water Fees Paid
9-1-4: Business License Not Issued For Noncompliance
9-1-5: Expiration Of Permit
9-1-6: Temporary Building Permits
 
9-1-7: Penalty
9-1-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or change
the use of any building or other structure within the Town limits without
obtaining a building permit from the Town Clerk or other authorized official of
the Town. The Town Clerk or other authorize official shall not issue any permit
unless the plans of and for the proposed erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration or use fully conform to the zoning regulations, and
building regulations then in effect, plans are to be kept as permanent records
are submitted to the Town Clerk or other authorized official. All applications
for building permits shall be accompanied by such information as may be deemed
necessary by the Town to provide for the enforcement of the Zoning Code and the
Subdivision Code.
(Ord. 264, 8-11-2010)
9-1-2: FEES:
There will be a five hundred dollar ($500.00) building permit application fee
for any structure/building that is over three hundred (300) square feet. For
structures/buildings less than three hundred (300) square feet, there will be a
twenty five dollar ($25.00) building permit application fee.
(Ord. 387, - -2023)
9-1-3: SEWER AND WATER FEES PAID:
No building permit shall be issued unless connection and impact fees for water
and sewer connections for the subject property have been paid in full.
(1982 Code § 5.01.020)
9-1-4: BUSINESS LICENSE NOT ISSUED FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
The Town Clerk shall not issue a business license to any business being
conducted in any building or temporary structure constructed or placed after
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter which does not
comply with the provisions of this chapter, and shall not issue a business
license to any business being conducted in any building or temporary structure
which did not comply with applicable ordinances in effect at the time of
construction or placement of such building.
(1982 Code § 5.01.030)
9-1-5: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Any building permit issued by the Town shall expire eighteen (18) months from
the date of issuance, unless otherwise provided in the permit.
(1982 Code § 5.01.040)
9-1-6: TEMPORARY BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Stipulations: Stipulations for the issuance of a temporary building
permit are as follows:
      1.   Must obtain a building permit each year.
      2.   Must have written permission from landowner.
      3.   Must submit a copy of their insurance.
      4.   Must meet the Town’s existing setback regulations.
      5.   The temporary buildings, etc., must be removed by October 15 of each
year unless temporary building permit owner has approval from the council.
      6.   The structure must be nice in appearance, painted, skirted, etc.
   B.   Compliance Required: Applicant will not be issued a business license
until the above requirements are met.
(Ord. 197, 8-12-1996; amd. Ord. 387, - -2023)
9-1-7: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished, upon conviction, as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
(1982 Code § 5.01.050)
CHAPTER 2: MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
9-2-1: Purpose
   
9-2-2: Definitions
   
9-2-3: License Required
   
9-2-4: Vending On Private Property; Nonresidential
   
9-2-5: Operating On City Owned Streets; Nonresidential
   
9-2-6: Conditions And Requirements; Public Right-Of-Way
   
9-2-7: Conditions And Requirements; Private Property
   
9-2-8: Design And Operation Requirements
   
9-2-9: Signs
   
9-2-10: Failure To Comply
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide clear and concise regulations for the
use and operation of mobile food trucks to prevent hazards to safety, traffic
or health, as well as to preserve the peace, safety and welfare of the
community.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
FOOD TRUCK: Means a fully encased food service establishment:
   1.   On a motor vehicle or on a trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to
transport; and
   2.   From which a food truck vendor, standing within the frame of the
vehicle, prepares, cooks, sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate
human consumption.
Health Department Food Handler Permit: Means a document that a local or state
Health Department issues to authorize a person to operate a food truck within
the jurisdiction of the local or state Health Department.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity shall operate a food truck business within Town of Thayne
without obtaining and holding a current:
   A.   Town of Thayne Business License;
   B.   Town of Thayne Food Truck Permit.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-4: VENDING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; NONRESIDENTIAL:
Mobile food businesses are allowed to vend on private property in
nonresidential zones with prior consent from the private property owner in the
form of a property owner’s affidavit.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-5: OPERATING ON CITY OWNED STREETS; NONRESIDENTIAL:
Mobile food businesses are allowed to operate on all City owned and operated
streets within nonresidential zones, in compliance with the regulations in this
section, with the following exception:
a. Mobile food businesses are allowed to park at or next to a town park only
with authorization from the town council.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-6: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Mobile food businesses offering food within the public right-of-way shall abide
by the following conditions and requirements. Failure to comply may result in
the suspension or revocation of a business license:
   A.   All vehicles and/or trailers must be removed from the public right-of-
way at the close of each business day.
   B.   Mobile food businesses shall obey all parking and traffic regulations
of this Code.
   C.   Parking on a park strip or otherwise landscaped area is not allowed.
   D.   Mobile food businesses utilizing parking space within the public right-
of-way shall park only in parallel parking spaces. Mobile food businesses must
be parked so that neither the vehicle nor the customers interfere with public
access to adjacent parking stalls, to driveways or to entrances of existing
buildings or uses. In cases where no parallel parking exists, the mobile food
business cannot occupy more than two (2) parking stalls in the public right-of-
way.
   E.   The operator shall locate the vending window facing the adjacent
sidewalk.
   F.   No mobile food business shall occupy required parking stalls of the
primary use.
   G.   Mobile food businesses shall ensure that the use of the public right-
of-way, including the sidewalk, in no way interferes with or limits sidewalk
users’ free and unobstructed passage.
   H.   No sales shall be made to any person standing in a roadway unless the
roadway has been closed to vehicular traffic for a public event.
   I.   Mobile food business shall have someone attend to the vehicle/trailer
at all times.
   J.   No mobile food business shall be within 1/8 mile of another mobile food
business unless approved by the town council.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-7: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS; PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Mobile food businesses offering food on private property shall abide by the
following conditions and requirements. Failure to comply may result in the
suspension or revocation of a business license:
   A.   Mobile food business shall meet the Town’s parking requirements for
commercial property, in addition to the current parking requirements required
by the commercial business.
   B.   Mobile food businesses shall ensure that the use of the public right-
of-way, including the sidewalk, in no way interferes with or limits sidewalk
users’ free and unobstructed passage.
   C.   Water and sewer connections are reported to the Town at time of
application and any subsequent fees paid with application. Property owner will
be responsible for any additional equivalent fees.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-8: DESIGN AND OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile food businesses shall comply with the following design and operation
requirements.
   A.   Mobile food businesses shall be designed and operated in a manner so as
to meet all applicable Wyoming Health Department related to the handling and
distribution of food as well as the disposal of residues and garbage.
   B.   All garbage or other refuse generated from mobile food businesses shall
be disposed of properly. It is illegal to discharge or dispose of any
substance, material, food, or waste into the storm drain system.
   C.   All grounds utilized by mobile food businesses shall at all times be
maintained in a clean and attractive condition. Trash containers shall be
provided for use of the business patrons. If mobile food businesses operate on
or adjacent to a public right- of-way, the vendor shall be responsible for
cleaning up litter dropped or discarded onto the public right-of-way prior to
leaving the location.
   D.   Mobile food businesses shall be kept in good operating condition, and
no peeling paint or rust shall be visible on business vehicles.
   E.   Licensees/owners will ensure their business vehicles are at all times
in compliance with all applicable laws or ordinances regulating motor vehicles.
   F.   Any auxiliary power required for the operation of the mobile food truck
shall be self-contained. No use of public or private power sources are allowed
without providing written consent from the owner.
   G.   Mobile food business shall be required to have and show proof of
Worker’s Compensation and liability insurance with coverage of $500,000/
$1,500,000.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-9: SIGNS:
No signs shall be used to advertise the conduct of the mobile business at the
premises other than those which are physically attached to the vehicle, except
that one (1) two-foot (2') by three-foot (3') menu board may be placed nearby
to display the menu.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
9-2-10: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be grounds for
denial, suspension or revocation of a business license issued by Town of Thayne
and the immediate suspension of operation activities for food trucks licensed
under a different jurisdiction.
(Ord. 383, - -2023)
TITLE 10: ZONING REGULATIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS   1
DEFINITIONS   2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT   3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP   4
AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS   5
AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (A-R-1)   5A
AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL-DUPLEX (A-R-2)   5B
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS   6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1)   6A
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2)   6B
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1)   6CD
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS   7
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS   8
TRAVEL TRAILER AND TRAVEL TRAILERS PARKS   9
MOBILE HOMES PARKS   10
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-601 et seq.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Short Title
10-1-3: Authority
10-1-4: Purpose
10-1-5: Interpretation
10-1-6: Conflict
10-1-1: TITLE:
An ordinance to regulate by districts or zones the location, height and bulk of
buildings and other structures; the percentage of lot which may be occupied,
the size of courts, lots and other open space; the density and distribution of
residential, commercial, recreational or other users and purposes; and
repealing all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith.
(1982 Code § 9.02.010)
10-1-2: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THAYNE, WYOMING, and may
be so cited and pleaded.
(1982 Code § 9.02.020)
10-1-3: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to authority conferred by Wyoming Statutes
section 15-1-601 et seq.
(1982 Code § 9.02.030)
10-1-4: PURPOSE:
This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of Thayne, Wyoming, including among other things the
lessening of congestion in the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and
other dangers, providing adequate light and air, classification of land and
distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax base,
securing economic growth, and the protection of both residential and
nonresidential development.
(1982 Code § 9.02.040)
10-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes
set forth.
(1982 Code § 9.02.050)
10-1-6: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, other ordinances or laws. If there are more restrictive provisions,
they shall apply.
(1982 Code § 9.02.060)
CHAPTER 2: DEFINITIONS
Section
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words, terms and phrases shall be
defined to have the same meaning as set forth in this section.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building customarily incidental to, and located on the
same lot occupied by, the main use or building.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture,
ranching, and the keeping or raising of domestic animals and fowl, excepting
domestic household pets. Agricultural land shall include buildings and
structures required for agricultural purposes.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare twenty feet (20') or 6.10 meters or less in width,
which affords only a secondary access to abutting property.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or movable possessions.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between ridge and eves of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
BUILDING PERMIT: A written warrant or license granting a landowner approval for
proposed construction, reconstruction or alteration of buildings or structures.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion of a building arranged, intended or
designed to be occupied by one or more families living independently of each
other upon the premises.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, occupying a
dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from
renters, roomers or a group occupying a hotel or motel, as herein defined.
FLOOR AREA: The total horizontal living area of a building measured on the
outside walls of each story.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign which is supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces.
GARAGE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of not more than
four (4) automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which
it is an accessory.
GRADE (GROUND LEVEL): The average of the finished ground level at the center of
all walls of a building. For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the ground at the center of that wall adjoining the street shall be
considered grade. For buildings adjoining more than one street, grade is the
average of the elevations of the ground at the centers of all walls adjoining
the streets. All walls approximately parallel to and more than five feet (5')
(152 meters) from a street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling unit, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof and in connection with which there is no display of
goods.
HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof used for the diagnosis, treatment or
for the accommodation and medical care of sick, injured or infirm persons and
including sanitariums, but not including clinics, rest homes and convalescent
homes.
HOTEL: A building or part thereof which has a common entrance, common heating
system, and may include a general dining room, and which contains seven (7) or
more living and sleeping rooms designed to be occupied by individuals or groups
of individuals on a more or less temporary basis.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for company
or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries, but not including a sufficient
number of dogs and/or cats to constitute a kennel.
INDIRECT LIGHTING: A source of illumination which is enclosed in a manner which
prevents all unscreened light from being seen.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: A group of nonnuisance industrial plants on a single parcel of
land, or in separate parcels contiguously arranged so as to form a planned
development of industrial sites, building or buildings.
JUNKYARD: Any place, establishment or business maintained, used or operated for
storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation
of automobile graveyards.
KENNEL: The keeping of six (6) or more dogs and/or cats at least (4) months
old.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or group
of buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot
width and lot area as are required by this title, and having frontage upon a
street. Except for group dwellings, not more than one dwelling structure shall
occupy any one lot.
LOT AREA: The total area within the property lines of the lot, excluding
adjacent streets.
LOT, CORNER: A lot, abutting one or two (2) intersecting or intercepting
streets, where the interior angle of intersection or interception does not
exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot, only one street line shall be considered as a front line.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line opposite the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: The lot line other than front lot lines or rear lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The distance parallel to the front lot lines measured between side
lot lines through that part of the building, structure or lot where the lot is
narrowest.
MOBILE HOME: A preconstructed structure having or at one time having, axles and
wheels capable of being pulled, towed or hauled over public streets; and/or
does not set on a permanent concrete foundation; and/or does not have a pitched
roof with a nominal slope of four feet (4') in height for each twelve feet
(12') in width; and/or does not have exterior siding and roofing which is
comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings, and
constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy as a residence. Such
housing is considered a “mobile home” and is not permitted in an A-R-
1 District, unless as permitted by subsection 10-8-11 or section
10-5A-2  of this title.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area designated for and/or occupied on a rental basis by
more than two (2) mobile homes or facilities delineated above, on units of
space of predesigned type, which may be utilized for living purposes, either
permanent, seasonal or both.
MODULAR HOME: A structure constructed for movement on the public highways that
has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was constructed
in accordance with Federal manufactured housing construction and safety
standards and regulations in effect at the time of construction; and is
constructed in modules or sections and is installed on a permanent concrete
foundation. The modular home shall be multisectional and enclose a space of not
less than one thousand (1,000) square feet, and shall have a pitched roof, with
a nominal slope of four feet (4') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width
and shall have exterior siding and roofing which is comparable to the
predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings. Such housing is considered
a single-family residence and is permitted within an A-R-1 District.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof existing
prior to the effective date of this title, or any amendment thereto, and
conflicting with the provisions of this title applicable to the district in
which it is situated.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a structure or land which existed prior to the
effective date of this title, or any amendment thereto, which conflicts with
the provisions of this title, applicable to the district in which it is
situated.
OPEN SPACE: An unoccupied space within the incorporated limits, set aside for
recreational uses.
PARKING SPACE: A space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking or
storage of one automobile. The parking space shall not be less than ten feet by
twenty feet (10' x 20') (3.05 meters x 6.10 meters) or two hundred (200) square
feet (18.6 square meters) in area.
PERMITTED USES: All uses permitted in a district, subject to the use, density,
sign, parking and spatial regulations applicable to that district.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Thayne, Wyoming.
SIGN: Any device used for visual communication to the general public and
displayed out of doors, including signs painted on exterior walls, and interior
signs to be viewed from out of doors, but not including any flag, badge or
ensign of any government agency.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a use conducted, product or
commodity sold, or service performed upon the premises.
SIGN IDENTIFICATION: A sign displayed to indicate the name or nature of
buildings or uses other than commercial or industrial uses located upon the
premises.
SIGN, NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and/or occupations of a person or
persons residing on the premises or legally occupying the premises, or
indicating a home occupation legally existing on the premises.
SIGN, PROPERTY: A sign related to the property on which it is located and
offering such property for sale or lease or advertising contemplated
improvements or announcing the name of the builder, owner, designer or
developer of the project, or warning against trespassing.
SIGN, PUBLIC INFORMATION: A sign giving information to direct the public to
both public and private facilities and major uses.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Shall include any sign, banner, pennant or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light
materials, with or without frames, intended to be used for a short period of
time only.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: A detached building of greater than one thousand
(1,000) square feet in floor area designed or used primarily for the occupancy
of a single family.
SITE PLAN: A graphic portrayal drawn to scale of all required elements,
including, but not limited to, existing and proposed buildings, utility rights-
of-way, fencing, landscaping, and parking and loading areas.
STREET: A public thoroughfare, the surface of which is at least thirty two feet
(32') (7.92 meters) wide, which affords principal means of access to abutting
property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is or may be either occupied or maintained.
YARD, FRONT: An open space between the front line of the building, exclusive of
steps, and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot.
YARD, REAR: An open space between the rear line of the building, exclusive of
steps and chimneys, and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width
of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: An open space between the side line of the lot, excluding steps and
chimneys, and extending from the front yard line to the rear line of the lot
and extending the full width of the lot.
ZONE: Synonymous to district.
ZONING OFFICER: The duly constituted Town official designated to administer and
enforce this title.
ZONING MAP: The official map which describes thereon the several zoning
districts to which the regulations set forth in this title shall apply.
(1982 Code § 9.03; amd. Ord. 129, 2-27-1984; Ord. 187, 1-9-1995)
CHAPTER 3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT   
Section
10-3-1: Administrative Responsibility
10-3-2: Compliance
10-3-3: Amendments
10-3-4: Appeals
10-3-5: Variances
10-3-6: Liability For Damages
10-3-7: Building Permits
10-3-8: Licensing
10-3-9: Severability
10-3-10: Conflicts
10-3-11: Enforcement And Penalties
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of the Planning and Zoning Commission to
administer this title.
(1982 Code § 9.11.010)
10-3-2: COMPLIANCE:
It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
maintain or use any building or use any land within the incorporated area of
the Town without first obtaining approval from the Planning and Zoning
Commission. No such approval shall be issued unless the plans for proposed
building, structure or use fully comply with this title. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall act upon any application filed with it. They shall
grant approval in all cases where the proposed construction or use complies
with the requirements of this title, and if approval is denied, the Commission
shall specify the reasons for such denial.
(1982 Code § 9.11.020)
10-3-3: AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title shall be in accordance with the laws of the State of
Wyoming, and the following general procedure and requirements:
   A.   Authorized: Amendments may be made at any time by the governing body,
by ordinance, on its own motion, upon recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission or upon the signed petition of any interested person or persons.
   B.   Referral To Planning And Zoning Commission: All proposed amendments
shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study and
recommendation.
   C.   Commission Public Hearing: Before making recommendations regarding
amendment of this title, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public
hearing. At least fifteen (15) days’ notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall he published in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town.
   D.   Council Public Hearing: Before acting upon the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the governing body shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed amendment. At least fifteen (15) days’ notice of the time and
place of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the Town.
   E.   Protest: If there is a protest against the amendment signed by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots included in the
proposed change, or those immediately adjacent within a distance of one hundred
forty feet (140'), an amendment will not become effective except upon the
affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all of the members of the governing
body. In determining the one hundred forty feet (140'), the width of any
intervening street or alley shall not be included.
(1982 Code § 9.11.030)
10-3-4: APPEALS:
The decisions of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be subject to the
appeal of the Board of Adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Wyoming
Statutes section 15-1-608. The decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be
subject to appeal in accordance with the provisions of Wyoming Statutes section
15-1-609.
(1982 Code § 9.11.040)
10-3-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Permitted; Scope: Variances from the strict application of the
regulations of this title may be granted where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property at the time of
the enactment of this title, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions
of extraordinary and exceptional situations or conditions of such piece of
property, the strict application of the provisions of this title would result
in undue hardships upon the owner of the property. The Board of Adjustment may
authorize, upon an appeal relating to said property, a variance from such
strict application so as to relieve such difficulties or hardship, provided
such relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Variances Are Nonconforming Use: Any variance granted by the Board of
Adjustment pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall be construed to be
a nonconforming use.
   C.   Financial Return Not Sufficient: The fact that an owner could realize a
greater financial return by using his property contrary to zoning regulations
is not a sufficient reason for granting a variance.
   D.   Findings, Evidence: Every variance granted by the Board of Adjustment
shall be based on the specific findings, supported by written evidence and a
photograph of the specific problem where applicable.
   E.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: The person requesting variance
shall notify all adjacent property owners of his intent.
   F.   Scope: A variance shall be nothing more than minimal easing of
standards of requirements.
(1982 Code § 9.11.050)
10-3-6: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
This title shall not be construed to hold the Town responsible for any damages
to persons or property for reason of the inspection or reinspection authorized
herein or failure to inspect or reinspect for reason of issuing authorization
in the administration and enforcement of this title.
(1982 Code § 9.11.070)
10-3-7: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Enforcement: The Town Council shall enforce the most recent edition of
the International Building Code. The Zoning Officer, appointed under the
provisions of the Building Code is hereby designated and authorized as the
officer charged with the enforcement of this title, but the Town Council, by
resolution or ordinance, may from time to time entrust such administration, in
whole or in part, to any other office of the Town without amendment to this
title.
(1982 Code § 9.11.080)
   B.   Application For Permit: Building permit applications shall be filled
out by contractor, authorized agent or owner of land and be submitted to the
Town Clerk or other authorized official. Such permit becomes null and void if
work or construction authorized is not commenced within one hundred twenty
(120) days. Such permit shall also become null and void unless the exterior of
any permitted building or structure is not completed within eighteen (18)
months after the issuance of the building permit; provided, that such
completion date may be extended by the Planning and Zoning Commission after an
application for extension is submitted.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
   C.   Site Plan: The applicant for a building permit shall prepare a site
plan, except where the building permit concerns interior or exterior changes
with no alteration of the building dimensions. The site plan shall be drawn to
scale and show all existing and proposed buildings, utility rights-of-way,
fences, landscaping, automobile parking and loading areas, and any other
information the Planning and Zoning Commission may deem necessary.
   D.   Submittal For Review: Building permits and site plans shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review.
(1982 Code § 9.11.080)
10-3-8: LICENSING:
All officials and public employees of the Town which are vested with the duty
or authority to issue permits or licenses shall enforce the provisions of this
title. Any permit or license issued and used in conflict with the provisions of
this title shall be null and void.
(1982 Code § 9.11.100)
10-3-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this title is declared to be invalid by a decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, it is hereby declared to be the intent of the
Town that the effect of such decision shall be limited to that provision or
those provisions expressly stated in the decision to be invalid, and such
decision shall not affect, impair or nullify this title as a whole, or any
other part thereof, but the rest of the title shall continue in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1994)
10-3-10: CONFLICTS:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance are hereby amended to be consistent herewith.
(1982 Code § 9.11.120)
10-3-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: The Planning and Zoning Commission, or such other
administrative official as appointed by the Town Council shall enforce the
provisions of this title.
   B.   Legal Action: In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of the provisions of this
title, the Town Council may institute appropriate legal action or proceedings
to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land, or to
prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
(1982 Code § 9.11.060)
   C.   Penalty: It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter,
maintain or use any building or structure or to use any land in violation of
any provision of this title, or amendment thereof. Any person, either as owner,
lessee, occupant or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this title
or any amendment thereof, upon conviction, shall be subject to the provisions
section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day during which such violation shall continue shall
be deemed to be a separate offense. In addition to the penalties above set
forth, the Town may institute injunction, abatement or any other appropriate
legal action to require compliance with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
CHAPTER 4: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
Section
10-4-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-4-2: Zoning Map And Boundaries
10-4-3: Applicability
10-4-4: Landscaping
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the provisions of this title, there are hereby created
and established in the Town the following classifications for zoning districts:
Agriculture-Residential District A-R-1
Agricultural-Residential-Duplex A-R-2
Commercial District C-1
Commercial District C-2
Industrial District I-1
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984; amd. Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
10-4-2: ZONING MAP AND BOUNDARIES:
   A.   Official Zoning Map: The boundaries and zoning classifications of
districts hereby established are as shown on the Official Zoning Map for
Thayne, Wyoming, dated December 12, 1983, as adopted or amended after public
hearings by the Town Council. Such maps and all notations, references, data and
other information shown thereon are, by reference, hereby made a part of this
title.
(1982 Code § 9.04.020; amd. Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
   B.   Boundary Lines: The zoning district boundary lines are intended
generally to follow the block or lot lines, all as shown on the Zoning Map; but
where a boundary line does not follow such a line, its position is shown on
said Zoning Map by specific dimension expressing its distance from a street
line or other boundary line as indicated.
   C.   Uncertainty: In the case of uncertainty as to the true location of a
boundary line, the determination thereof shall be made by the Board of
Adjustment.
(1982 Code § 9.04.020)
10-4-3: APPLICABILITY:
Except as hereinafter otherwise provided:
   A.   No building or structure, or part thereof and no lot or land or part
thereof shall hereafter be used, except in conformity with the use regulations
herein prescribed.
   B.   No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
structurally altered, enlarged or rebuilt except in conformity with the lot
dimension, yard coverage, height and density regulations herein prescribed for
the district in which such building or structure is located.
   C.   No yard or other open space provided about any building for the purpose
of complying with the provisions of this title shall be considered as providing
a yard or other open space for any other building.
(1982 Code § 9.04.030)
10-4-4: LANDSCAPING:
The purpose of the landscaping requirements in this article shall be to bring
relief from heat, noise and glare through proper placement of green plants and
trees, and to enhance, conserve and stabilize property values by encouraging
pleasant and attractive surroundings.
   A.   Landscaping Defined: Landscaping shall mean some combination of planted
trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, flowers or lawns. In addition, the
combination or design may include rock and such structural features as
fountains, pools, art works, screens, walls, fences or benches, but such
objects alone shall not meet the requirements of this section. The selected
combination of objects for landscaping purposes shall be arranged in a
harmonious manner.
   B.   Maintenance: Required landscape areas shall be maintained in a neat,
clean, orderly and healthful condition. This is meant to include proper
pruning, mowing of lawns, weeding, removal of litter, fertilizing, replacement
of plants, when necessary, and the regular watering of all plantings.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
CHAPTER 5: AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (A-R-1)
Section
10-5A-1: Purpose
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Lot And Yard Requirements
10-5A-4: Maximum Building Height
10-5A-5: General Regulations
10-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to preserve appropriate areas of the Town for
agricultural-residential use. In addition to residential use, all uses normally
and necessarily to agricultural operations are permitted.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the Agricultural-Residential District, no building, structure, premises
or land shall be used, except for one or more of the following uses:
Agriculture, farming, ranching, animal husbandry and their related uses and
facilities; provided, that the care and maintenance of all livestock shall
conform to the supplemental regulations of this title.
Customary accessory uses and structures.
Churches and schools, single modular homes.
One single-family residence per lot.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Public utilities and facilities, as well as maintenance of the same, providing
they comply with the setback requirements.
(Ord. 167, 7-9-1990; amd. Ord. 172, 8-19-1991; Ord. 388, - -2023)
10-5A-3: LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area And Width:
 
Main Building
Minimum lot area           14,000 square feet (.321 acres)
Minimum lot width          96 feet
Minimum livable floor area 1,200 square feet and shall not exceed 30% of lot
                           size
 
   B.   Minimum Yard:
 
Main Building
Front 20 feet
Side  10 feet
Rear  10 feet
 
Accessory Building
Front 50 feet
Side  5 feet
Rear  5 feet
 
Unattached Garages
Front 20 feet
Side  10 feet
Rear  10 feet
 
(Ord. 189, 4-10-1995; amd. Ord. 390, - -2024)
10-5A-4: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Main Building: Thirty five feet (35') or 10.67 meters.
   B.   Accessory Building: Thirty five feet (35') or 10.67 meters.
(1982 Code § 9.05.040)
10-5A-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Use of land in this district shall also conform to all the requirements of
chapter 7 of this title.
(1982 Code § 9.05.050)
ARTICLE B. AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL- DUPLEX (A-R-2)
Section
10-5B-1: Purpose
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Lot And Yard Requirements
10-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to preserve appropriate areas of the Town for
agricultural, residential and duplex uses. In addition to residential use, all
uses normally and necessarily incident to agricultural operations are
permitted.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the agricultural-residential-duplex, no building, structure, premises or
land shall be used, except for one or more of the following uses:
Any authorized use in A-R-1 District and duplex homes.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984; amd. Ord. 167, 7-9-1990; Ord. 172, 8-19-1991)
10-5B-3: LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area And Width:
 
Main Building
Minimum lot area           14,000 square feet (.321 acres)
Minimum lot width          96 feet
Minimum livable floor area 1,200 square feet and shall not exceed 30% of lot
                           size
 
   B.   Minimum Yards:
 
Main Building
Front  20 feet
Side   10 feet
Rear   5 feet
Corner 20 feet
 
(1982 Code § 9.07.040; amd. Ord. 390, - -2024)
CHAPTER 6: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1)
Section
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Special Provisions
10-6A-4: Lot And Yard Requirements
10-6A-5: Maximum Building Height
10-6A-6: General Regulations
10-6A-7: Special Provisions
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide areas for community wholesale and
retail and service activities on locations to conveniently serve the residents.
(1982 Code § 9.08.010)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the Commercial District, no building, structure premises or land shall
be used, except for one or more of the following uses:
Any authorized use in A-R-2 District.
Automobile and farm equipment supply/sales and automobile oriented service,
repair facilities and automobile service stations.
Bakery, bank, barber shop, beauty parlor, book store, bar and tavern.
Business or professional office, optometrist or optician.
Car wash, motels, hotels and funeral homes.
Dairy products store, drug store, daycare center.
Dry cleaning agency, café, cafeteria.
Florist, gift shop, grocery, greenhouse.
Fuel sales office and public buildings and services.
Livestock and animals in conformance with the provisions of chapter 7 of this
title.
Medical and dental clinics, meat processing and refrigeration.
Mobile home.
Parking structure.
Photographic shop, post office.
Public utilities and facilities, as well as maintenance of the same, providing
they comply with the setback requirements.
Radio and television sales and repair shop.
Shoe repair shop and variety shop.
Single-family residences.
Tourist oriented service and repair facilities.
Welding shop.
Other related and similar uses; any lawful commercial use hereafter approved by
the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Town Council.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984; amd. Ord. 167, 7-9-1990)
10-6A-3: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
The above specified stores, shops or businesses shall be permitted under the
following conditions:
A.   All uses shall he free from objectionable odor, dust, smoke, noise,
vibration or other health and safety hazards.
(1982 Code § 9.08.030)
10-6A-4: LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Minimum Lot Area: Minimum lot area shall be designed and maintained at
three (3) times the total building floor space area to provide for parking,
loading, circulation and pedestrian walks.
B.   Minimum Floor Area: None required.
(1982 Code § 9.08.040)
C.   Front, Corner Yards: Front and corner yards shall be a minimum of fifty
feet (50') if across the street from an A-R-1 or A-R-2 District.
D.   Rear, Side Yards: Rear and side yards if adjacent to an A-R-1 or A-R-
2 District shall be a minimum of three (3) times the height of the building. In
addition, a solid fence or wall not less than six feet (6') in height may be
required on the boundary line, at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
E.   All building drip lines must remain within the property. All snow removal
or snow storage must remain within the property.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-6A-5: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
A.   Main Building: Thirty five feet (35').
B.   Accessory Building: Thirty five feet (35').
(1982 Code § 9.08.050)
10-6A-6: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Use of land in this district shall also conform to all the requirements of
chapter 7 of this title.
(1982 Code § 9.08.060)
10-6A-7: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
A.   Storage: All storage and activities, except loading and unloading and
automobile parking and refueling, shall be conducted entirely within a
building.
B.   Maintenance Of Premises: No dust, odor, smoke, vibration or intermittent
light, glare, or noise shall be permitted which is discernible beyond the
premises, except from normal movement of automobile traffic.
C.   On Street Parking: No on street parking in the C-2 District.
D.   Industrial Uses: No industrial uses in the C-2 District.
E.   Lighting: All lighting shall be indirect or shielded and so designed as to
reflect away from adjoining residences. Parking lots must be safely lit during
nighttime business hours.
F.   Accessory Uses and Buildings:
   1.   Storage buildings shall be permitted on the same lot with a primary
commercial structure, or on an adjacent lot associated with the primary
commercial structure.
   2.   Accessory buildings shall be situated not less than three (3) feet from
all primary commercial structures.
   3.   Buildings shall contain no more than 900 square feet of floor area.
   4.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall be permitted in the Commercial
District C-1 according to the following criteria;
      a.   A cargo storage/shipping container shall be defined as any large box
structure formerly used, or designed to be used, to store and/or haul cargo by
rail, semi-truck, or ship.
      b.   A maximum of two (2) cargo storage/shipping containers per
commercial lot shall be permitted. Cargo storage/shipping containers shall not
be tacked, joined, or combined and shall not exceed a total of 640 square feet.
      c.   All cargo storage/shipping containers shall be new containers or
one-time use containers.
      d.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall not be permitted along
street frontage and shall be situated behind the business establishment when
possible and placed toward the rear of the lot.
      e.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall be properly maintained and
shall be painted to match the existing building structures. The area
surrounding the container shall be free of weeds and debris.
      f.   If vandalism or graffiti occurs, the cargo storage/shipping
container shall be repaired or repainted within thirty (30) calendar days. If
such vandalism or graffiti occurs between November 1 and April 30, the
container shall be repaired or repainted by May 31.
      g.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall adhere to the minimum
setbacks as prescribed for commercial district found in Section 10-6B-5.
      h.   Cargo storage/shipping containers which are moved to different
locations on a regular basis shall be considered transient cargo storage/
shipping containers and shall be under the same restrictions outlined in this
Section.
      i.   Applicants for a cargo storage/shipping container shall obtain a
building permit according to Section 9-1-1 of the Thayne Town Code.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006; amd. Ord. 391, - -2024)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2)
Section
10-6B-1: General Objectives And Characteristics Of District
10-6B-2: Permitted And Conditional Uses
10-6B-3: Area Requirements
10-6B-4: Frontage Width Requirements
10-6B-5: Location Requirements
10-6B-6: Height, Sign Requirements
10-6B-7: Special Provisions
10-6B-1: GENERAL OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF DISTRICT:
The objective in establishing the C-2 Commercial District is to encourage
shopping facilities, which supply residential needs. Inasmuch as this zone is
usually surrounded by dwellings, it shall be characterized by a harmonious
grouping of stores, shops and professional buildings surrounded by lawns, trees
and shrubs planted and maintained in harmony with the surrounding residential
areas. The architecture, exterior and roofing of all buildings shall be
harmonious with and similar or comparable in material, appearance and color to
the predominant material, appearance and color of dwellings in the community,
and particularly of those dwellings surrounding the development. Clean parking
lots and attractively maintained business buildings shall also be
characteristics of this district.
In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this article, the
following regulations shall apply in the C-2 Commercial Zone.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Only the following shall be permitted or conditional uses in the C-2 Commercial
District:
Any authorized use in C-1 District.
Antique shops.
Appliance sales, service and repair shops.
Art galleries, museums and athletic clubs.
Automobile supply shops.
Bakeries and confectionery; on site retail only.
Banks and financial institutions.
Bed and breakfasts, with a conditional use permit.
Book stores.
Camera and photo supply shops.
Cellular and wireless phone dealerships.
Cleaners, dry cleaners, and laundries.
Clothing stores.
Clubs and fraternal societies.
Computer sales, service and maintenance.
Copy centers.
Craft shops.
Dairy product stores.
Daycare centers.
Delicatessens.
Drug stores and pharmacies.
Dry goods stores.
Electronic device repair shops.
Florist shops.
Food catering services.
Furniture repair shops.
Garden supply stores.
Gift shops.
Hair salons, barbershops, beauty parlors.
Hobby supply stores.
Jewelry stores.
Laundry mats.
Music studios and other music related businesses.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Pawnshops.
Pet shops.
Public utilities and facilities, as well as maintenance of the same, providing
they comply with the setback requirements.
Professional business.
Restaurants, excluding the sale and/or offering of liquor, beer, wine.
Shoe sales and shoe repair shops.
Sporting goods stores.
Stationary stores.
Video outlets.
Stores selling or offering any combination of the aforementioned uses.
Other uses ruled by the Town Council to be similar to the above listed uses and
in harmony with the objectives and characteristics of this district.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
10-6B-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be no minimum or maximum lot size requirements for any individual
lot within the C-2 District, except as required for setback and off street
parking space.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
10-6B-4: FRONTAGE WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be no maximum or minimum frontage width requirements for any
individual lot in the C-2 District.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
10-6B-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Minimum lot area shall be designed and maintained at
three (3) times the total building floor space area to provide for parking,
loading, circulation and pedestrian walks.
   B.   Minimum Floor Area: None required.
(1982 Code § 9.08.040)
   C.   Front, Corner Yards: Front and corner yards shall be a minimum of fifty
feet (50') if across the street from an A-R-1 or A-R-2 District.
   D.   Rear, Side Yards: Rear and side yards if adjacent to an A-R-1 or A-R-
2 District shall be a minimum of three (3) times the height of the building. In
addition, a solid fence or wall not less than six feet (6') in height may be
required on the boundary line, at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   E.   All building drip lines must remain within the property. All snow
removal or snow storage must remain within the property.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-6B-6: HEIGHT, SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
No building may be less than one story in height (that is, no basement only
buildings are permitted). No building shall exceed a maximum height of thirty
five feet (35') unless approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. One
freestanding sign per lot with a maximum footage of twenty feet (20') in
height.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006)
10-6B-7: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Storage: All storage and activities, except loading and unloading and
automobile parking and refueling, shall be conducted entirely within a
building.
   B.   Maintenance Of Premises: No dust, odor, smoke, vibration or
intermittent light, glare, or noise shall be permitted which is discernible
beyond the premises, except from normal movement of automobile traffic.
   C.   On Street Parking: No on street parking in the C-2 District.
   D.   Industrial Uses: No industrial uses in the C-2 District.
   E.   Lighting: All lighting shall be indirect or shielded and so designed as
to reflect away from adjoining residences. Parking lots must be safely lit
during nighttime business hours.
   F.   Accessory Uses and Buildings:
      1.   Storage buildings shall be permitted on the same lot with a primary
commercial structure, or on an adjacent lot associated with the primary
commercial structure.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be situated not less than three (3) feet
from all primary commercial structures.
      3.   Buildings shall contain no more than 900 square feet of floor area.
      4.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall be permitted in the
Commercial District C-2 according to the following criteria;
         a.   A cargo storage/shipping container shall be defined as any large
box structure formerly used, or designed to be used, to store and/or haul cargo
by rail, semi-truck, or ship.
         b.   A maximum of two (2) cargo storage/shipping containers per
commercial lot shall be permitted. Cargo storage/shipping containers shall not
be tacked, joined, or combined and shall not exceed a total of 640 square feet.
         c.   All cargo storage/shipping containers shall be new containers or
one-time use containers.
         d.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall not be permitted along
street frontage and shall be situated behind the business establishment when
possible and placed toward the rear of the lot.
         e.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall be properly maintained
and shall be painted to match the existing building structures. The area
surrounding the container shall be free of weeds and debris.
         f.   If vandalism or graffiti occurs, the cargo storage/shipping
container shall be repaired or repainted within thirty (30) calendar days. If
such vandalism or graffiti occurs between November 1 and April 30, the
container shall be repaired or repainted by May 31.
         g.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall adhere to the minimum
setbacks as prescribed for commercial district found in Section 10-6B-5.
         h.   Cargo storage/shipping containers which are moved to different
locations on a regular basis shall be considered transient cargo storage/
shipping containers and shall be under the same restrictions outlined in this
Section.
         i.   Applicants for a cargo storage/shipping container shall obtain a
building permit according to Section 9-1-1 of the Thayne Town Code.
(Ord. 240, 11-8-2006; amd. Ord. 391, - -2024)
ARTICLE C. INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1)
Section
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Lot And Yard Requirements
10-6C-4: Maximum Building Height
10-6C-5: General Regulations
10-6C-6: Accessory Uses And Buildings
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide areas where industries necessary and
beneficial to the local economy may locate and operate.
(1982 Code § 9.09.010)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Within the Industrial District, no building, structure, premises or land shall
be used, except for one or more of the following uses:
Any authorized use in the C-2 District.
Agriculture, farming and ranching.
Any industrial, mining, manufacturing, processing, assembling, research,
wholesale, retail or storage use which does not emit dust, smoke, fumes, gas,
odors, or noise beyond the industrial boundaries.
Commercial storage unit.
Customary accessory uses and structures.
Public utilities and facilities, as well as maintenance of the same, providing
they comply with the setback requirements.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984; amd. Ord. 167, 7-9-1990)
10-6C-3: LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Minimum lot area shall be designed and maintained at
three (3) times the total building floor space area to provide for parking,
loading, circulation and pedestrian walks.
   B.   Minimum Floor Area: None required.
(1982 Code § 9.09.030)
   C.   Front, Corner Yards: Front and corner yards shall be a minimum of fifty
feet (50') or 15.24 meters if across the street from an A-R-1 or an A-R-
2 District. The first twenty five feet (25') or 7.62 meters adjacent to the
street shall be landscaped.
   D.   Rear, Side Yards: Rear and side yards if adjacent to an A-R-1 or an A-
R-2 District shall be a minimum of four (4) times the height of the building.
In addition, a solid fence or wall not less than six feet (6') or 1.83 meters
in height may be required on the district boundary line, at the discretion of
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-6C-4: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a maximum height of thirty
five feet (35') or 10.67 meters, unless approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   B.   Distance To Adjoining District: When main or accessory buildings are
placed within one hundred feet (100') or 30.5 meters of the boundary of any
adjoining district, those buildings shall not exceed the height limit
established for main or accessory buildings in that adjoining district.
(1982 Code § 9.09.040)
10-6C-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Use of land in this district shall conform to all the requirements of chapter 7
of this title.
(1982 Code § 9.09.050)
10-6C-6: ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Storage buildings shall be permitted on the same lot with a primary
commercial structure, or on an adjacent lot associated with the primary
commercial structure.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall be situated not less than three (3) feet from
all primary commercial structures.
   C.   Buildings shall contain no more than 900 square feet of floor area.
   D.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall be permitted in the Industrial
District I-1 according to the following criteria;
      1.   A cargo storage/shipping container shall be defined as any large box
structure formerly used, or designed to be used, to store and/or haul cargo by
rail, semi-truck, or ship.
      2.   A maximum of two (2) cargo storage/shipping containers per
commercial lot shall be permitted. Cargo storage/shipping containers shall not
be tacked, joined, or combined and shall not exceed a total of 640 square feet.
      3.   All cargo storage/shipping containers shall be new containers or
one-time use containers.
      4.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall not be permitted along
street frontage and shall be situated behind the business establishment when
possible and placed toward the rear of the lot.
      5.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall be properly maintained and
shall be painted to match the existing building structures. The area
surrounding the container shall be free of weeds and debris.
      6.   If vandalism or graffiti occurs, the cargo storage/shipping
container shall be repaired or repainted within thirty (30) calendar days. If
such vandalism or graffiti occurs between November 1 and April 30, the
container shall be repaired or repainted by May 31.
      7.   Cargo storage/shipping containers shall adhere to the minimum
setbacks as prescribed for commercial district found in Section 10-6C-3.
      8.   Cargo storage/shipping containers which are moved to different
locations on a regular basis shall be considered transient cargo storage/
shipping containers and shall be under the same restrictions outlined in this
Section.
      9.   Applicants for a cargo storage/shipping container shall obtain a
building permit according to Section 9-1-1 of the Thayne Town Code.
(Ord. 391, - -2024)
CHAPTER 7: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
Section
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-2: Signs
10-7-3: Off Street Parking
10-7-4: Planned Unit Development
10-7-5: Yard Space For One Building
10-7-6: Unobstructed Yards
10-7-7: Wall Or Fence
10-7-8: Minimum Building Height
10-7-9: View Of Intersecting Streets
10-7-10: Coverage
10-7-11: Keeping Of Animals
10-7-12: Travel Trailers
10-7-13: Improvements Required
10-7-14: Lot Maintenance
10-7-15: Measuring Setbacks
10-7-16: Shipping Containers
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.
(1982 Code § 9.10.010)
10-7-2: SIGNS:
Type Of Sign                    Max. Height Zone Permitted Permitted Type Of
(See          Max. Size In Feet In Feet*    Use            Illumination
Definitions)
Type Of Sign                      Max. Height Zone Permitted Permitted Type Of
(See            Max. Size In Feet In Feet*    Use            Illumination
Definitions)
Business        8x20              20 feet     C-1, C-2, I-1  Indirect flood
                (2.48x6.1m)                                  neon
Identification  3x4               8           All zones      Indirect
                (0.91x1.22m)      (2.44m)
Name plate      1x2               8           All zones      Indirect
                (.305x6.1m)       (2.44m)
Property sale,  2x3               8           All zones      None
lease, trespass (.610x.910m)      (2.44m)
Property-other  8x16              16          All zones      None
                (2.44x4.88m)      (4.88m)
Public          3x6               8           All zones      Indirect
information     (.910x1.83m)      (2.44m)
Temporary       8x12              16          All zones      None
                (2.44x3.66m)      (4.88m)
 
*The distance from the top of the sign to ground supporting it.
   A.   Animated Flashing, Intermittent Signs: Animated, flashing or
intermittent signs are not allowed in any of the districts.
   B.   Illuminations: All signs, except business signs, shall be illuminated
by indirect lighting, the source of which shall not be visible from the street.
In no case shall direct rays of light from a sign be permitted to penetrate a
property in a residential district.
   C.   Location Of Signs: All signs shall be placed so as not to interfere
with a clear view at intersecting streets as provided for in this chapter. In
any district requiring a front yard, all signs located on the ground in that
district shall adhere to the front yard requirement.
   D.   Roof And Ground Signs: Roof signs shall be permitted only in District
C-1. Roof signs shall not be permitted higher than the height regulations of
the district they are located in. Ground signs shall not project above the roof
line of the highest building located on the premises.
(1982 Code § 9.10.020; amd. Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
   E.   Number Of Signs: Each lot will be limited to one freestanding sign. The
maximum height will be twenty feet (20').
(Ord. 229, 7-9-2003)
10-7-3: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Parking Required: There shall he provided at the time of erection of
any building, or at the time any main building is enlarged or increased in
capacity, minimum off street parking space with adequate provision of ingress
and egress by standard sized automobiles as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Table: Minimum requirements for parking areas are indicated in the
following table:
Building Type Minimum Parking Space Required For Each
Building Type                Minimum Parking Space For Each
                             Required
Single- and two-family       2                     Dwelling unit
residential
Dwelling mobile home         2                     Dwelling unit
Motel                        1                     Living or sleeping unit
Hotel                        1                     2 sleep rooms
Hospital                     1                     2 beds
Church                       1                     4 fixed seats
Auditorium, theater, stadium 1                     4 seats
place of public use
Public library               1                     200 sq. ft. or 18.6 sq. m.
                                                   gross floor space
Business development, bank,  1                     200 sq. ft. or 18.6 sq. m.
retail store, etc.                                 gross floor space
Professional office in       1                     100 sq. ft. or 9.3 sq. m.
residential building                               gross floor space
Medical and dental clinic    2                     Doctor
Restaurants, bars, cafes     1                     4 seats
Drive-in restaurant          1                     500 sq. ft or 46.5 sq. m. of
                                                   lot area
Bowling lanes                3                     Lane
Grocery store                1                     300 sq. ft. or 27.95 sq. m.
                                                   gross floor space
Elementary and junior high                         1/2 classroom (in addition
school                       1                     to parking space required
                                                   for auditorium)
                                                   1/4 classroom (in addition
Senior high school           1                     to parking space required
                                                   for auditorium)
Condominium/apartment /      2                     Each resident unit
multiple family dwelling
 
   C.   Parking Space Requirements: Parking space for handicapped and disabled
persons shall be as follows:
      1.   All non-residential parking facilities accessible to the general
public shall provide accessible parking spaces designated for use by
handicapped and disabled persons. The required number of accessible parking
spaces for handicapped and disabled persons shall be calculated according to
the total number of spaces required for each parking facility.
      2.   When less than five (5) sparking spaces are provided, one parking
stall shall be fourteen (14) feet wide and striped to provide a nine (9) foot
parking area and a five (5) foot loading and unloading area. However, there is
no requirements that the space be reserved exclusively or identified for use by
only handicapped persons.
Parking Spaces Required for Handicapped and Disabled Persons
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Number of Required Parking Spaces for
Vehicular Parking Facility        Handicapped and Disabled Persons
Parking Spaces Required for Handicapped and Disabled Persons
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Number of Required Parking Spaces for
Vehicular Parking Facility        Handicapped and Disabled Persons
1 - 25                            1
26 - 50                           2
51 - 75                           3
76 - 100                          4
101 - 150                         5
151 - 200                         6
201 - 300                         7
301 - 400                         8
401 - 500                         9
501 or more                       2% of total number of parking spaces
 
(1982 Code § 9.10.030)
10-7-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Scope: A planned unit development (PUD) is intended to replace the
rigid requirements of conventional zoning with general appearance and
livability guidelines allowing flexibility and innovation in site planning,
building arrangement and land use relationships, while simultaneously insuring
substantial compliance with the intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Commission Approval: Planned unit development must be approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   C.   Preliminary Site Plan: The applicant shall submit a preliminary site
plan, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   An explanation of all intended uses.
      2.   Preliminary plat.
      3.   An inventory resource statement, with total area proposed in PUD,
data concerning population to be served, the expected value per unit, sewer and
water capabilities, soil types and composition, geologic analysis, and proposed
pedestrian and automobile circulation patterns.
   D.   Final Plan: After receiving Planning and Zoning Commission approval of
the preliminary plan, the developer shall, within one year, submit a final
plan, including, but not limited to, the final draft of all that is listed in
the preliminary plan.
   E.   Minimum Area: No planned unit development shall have an area of less
than ten (10) acres or forty thousand four hundred seventy (40,470) square
meters.
   F.   Ownership: The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at
the time of the application or the subject of an application filed jointly by
all owners of the property.
   G.   Consent For Withdrawal: No piece of land shall be withdrawn from the
PUD without the consent of all the property owners and the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   H.   CCRs Submitted: The developer shall prepare and submit to the Planning
and Zoning Commission copies of any special agreements, restrictions,
conditions or covenants which will govern the use, continued protection and
maintenance of the planned unit and any of its common park areas and
facilities.
   I.   Density: The residential density of a PUD district shall not be greater
than six (6) units per acre and coverage not greater than sixty percent (60%).
   J.   Acceptable Plan: Building uses, building locations, lot area, width,
yard, height and coverage regulations proposed, shall be considered and
determined acceptable through the process of approving the site development
plan.
   K.   Survey And Staking Work Permitted: Upon approval of the preliminary
plan, and in accordance therewith, the developer may survey and stake the lots,
roads, and other proposed areas on the PUD site, but may not commence any
further development activity until final approval. The completion of survey and
staking work shall in no way obligate any Town officials to grant final
approval.
   L.   Site Plan Requirements: The general site plan required shall include,
but not be limited to, the following: layout of roads, lots, parks and open
space locations, orientation, spacing, signage and lighting, water supply and
sewage treatment system, natural preservation and drainage areas, landscaping,
fencing and screening, and any information including residential density,
coverage and open space characteristics.
   M.   Open Space: The Planning and Zoning Commission may determine whether
all or a part of stream areas, bodies of water and slopes may or may not be
included as usable open space.
   N.   Ownership, Responsibility Of Open Space: The developer may retain
ownership and responsibility for maintenance of the designated open space, and
shall commit himself through written agreement with all parties who
subsequently acquire ownership of property within the PUD.
   O.   Phase Development: All planned unit development may be developed in
phases. No construction of any kind shall begin in the second or subsequent
phases until sixty five percent (65%) of the total development has been sold on
the preceding phase. Development of any phase must be substantially completed
within two (2) years from the time of its final approval.
(1982 Code § 9.10.040)
10-7-5: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING:
For the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title, no required
yard or other open space for any building, nor any yard or other required open
space on an adjoining lot, shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected or established.
(1982 Code § 9.10.050)
10-7-6: UNOBSTRUCTED YARDS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky except for accessory
buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights, sills, belt
courses, cornices, roof overhang, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features
which project into a yard not more than four feet (4') or 1.22 meters. Also
excepted are open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways
and balconies upon fire towers projecting into a yard, not more than five feet
(5') or 1.52 meters.
(1982 Code § 9.10.070)
10-7-7: WALL OR FENCE:
No fence or wall or other similar structure shall be erected in any required
front, rear or side yard to a height in excess of six feet (6') or 1.83 meters.
(1982 Code § 9.10.080)
10-7-8: MINIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade.
(1982 Code § 9.10.090)
10-7-9: VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all districts which require a front yard, no obstruction of view in excess
of two feet (2') or .66 meters in height shall be placed on any corner lot
within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and the line
connecting them at points forty feet (40') or 12.19 meters from the
intersection of the street lines, except trees pruned high enough to permit
unobstructed vision by automobile drivers.
(1982 Code § 9.10.100)
10-7-10: COVERAGE:
In no zone except Commercial District (C-1) shall a building or group of
buildings with their accessory buildings cover more than sixty percent (60%) of
the area of the lot. Accessory buildings in a residential district shall not
cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard.
(1982 Code § 9.10.110)
10-7-11: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Horses, Cattle: Horses and cattle may be maintained in any zoning
district; provided, that such animals are kept or maintained for noncommercial
use; and further provided, that such animals are confined within fences or
other enclosures at all times, in a manner that does not cause nuisance to
adjacent or neighboring property owners.
   B.   Other Livestock: Other livestock, including, but not limited to,
chickens, goats, pigs, sheep and rabbits shall be allowed in any zoning
district; provided, that such animals are kept or maintained for noncommercial
use; and further provided, that such animals are permanently confined within an
enclosed agricultural structure at all times.
   C.   Sanitation: In the care or maintenance of any authorized or permitted
animals, any person responsible for the care, custody or control of such
animals shall at all times keep and maintain the premises, barn, pen, place or
enclosure where such animals are kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall remove all manure and waste periodically or when requested to do so by
the Town or any local or State health authority, and shall dispose of the same
by spreading it on farm or garden land or otherwise as might be ordered by the
Town or health authority, to render the same sanitary and unoffensive.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-7-12: TRAVEL TRAILERS:
   A.   There shall be no limit on the number of occupied travel trailers or
recreational vehicles on any property in any fourteen (14) day period if none
of such trailers or vehicles is maintained on such property for more than seven
(7) consecutive days; provided, that all such vehicles and the occupants
thereof shall not create a nuisance for neighboring residents;
   B.   Only one occupied travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall be
allowed on any lot or parcel of land for more than seven (7) consecutive days
in any fourteen (14) day period without the approval of the Planning and Zoning
Commission;
   C.   No travel trailer or recreational vehicle which is occupied shall be
kept or maintained on any lot or parcel or land for more than thirty (30) days
without the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission;
   D.   Except in approved sites, no compensation, either direct or indirect,
shall be paid for the location and maintenance of any travel trailer or
recreational vehicle on any property with the Town, nor shall any travel
trailer or recreational vehicle be placed, kept or maintained on any property
within the Town and occupied by any person as employment compensation.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-7-13: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
All lots shall have Town approved water supply and sewage treatment system.
(1982 Code § 9.10.130)
10-7-14: LOT MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. The lot shall be maintained free of
accumulations of debris which may provide rodent harborage or breeding places
for flies, mosquitoes and other pests. Storage areas shall be so maintained as
to prevent rodent harborage.
   B.   Where the potential for insect an rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials. All grass and weeds shall be cut
and maintained to prevent fire hazards. The Mayor or the Mayor’s authorized
representative is authorized and empowered to notify in writing the owner or
owners of any lot, place or area within the Town to remove or exterminate weeds
or grass causing fire hazard. Such notice shall be by certified mail, addressed
to the owner at the address used to mail County tax notices, and shall give the
owner such period of time as stated in the notice, not less than ten (10) days
from the receipt of the notice, to remove or exterminate the grass or weeds
causing a fire hazard.
   C.   Upon the failure or refusal of any owner so notified to exterminate or
remove the grass or weeds causing a fire hazard, or more than ten (10) days
after the date of such notice in the event the same is returned to the Town
because of inability to make delivery thereof, the authorized representative of
the Town is authorized to exterminate or remove such weeds or grass causing a
fire hazard and to report to the Town Clerk the same, together with a voucher
of the cost of such extermination and removal, plus twenty percent (20%) to
cover the cost of administration and notice. The Town Clerk shall charge the
cost of such extermination and removal to the property owner or owners and such
special assessment shall become a lien upon and against the lots or parcels of
land and collectible as such.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
10-7-15: MEASURING SETBACKS:
The building setbacks will be measured from the point of the building that
protrudes the closest to the property line on all sides. This does not include
flat sidewalks.
(Ord. 198, 9-9-1996)
10-7-16: SHIPPING CONTAINERS:
   A.   Definition: A cargo storage/shipping container shall be defined as any
large box structure formerly used, or designed to be used, to store and/or haul
cargo by rail, semi-truck, or ship.
   B.   No cargo storage/shipping containers shall be kept, stored, or
maintained within the city limits of the Town of Thayne except in the following
designated areas and as regulated in this section:
      1.   Commercial District C-1.
      2.   Commercial District C-2.
      3.   Industrial District I-1.
(Ord. 391, - -2024)
CHAPTER 8: NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
Section
10-8-1: Nonconforming Uses And Buildings
10-8-2: Permits For Expansion Of Nonconforming Uses
10-8-1: NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   May Be Continued: Except as provided in this chapter, the lawful use
and location of any building or land existing prior to the effective date
hereof may be continued even though the use or location does not conform to the
requirements of this title.
(1982 Code § 9.04.040)
   B.   Maintenance, Repair Permitted: Normal maintenance, repairs and partial
or fully replacement or reconstruction of a building or other structure
containing a nonconforming use is permitted.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
   C.   Parking: A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking
space in connection therewith, as required by this title, may be altered or
enlarged, provided additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this title for such alteration or enlargement.
   D.   Nonconforming Use Vacancy: A building or structure or portion thereof
occupied by a nonconforming use, which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and
remains unoccupied for a continuous period of six (6) months, shall not
thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of
the district in which is it located.
   E.   Occupancy Time Limit: A vacant building or structure may be occupied by
a use for which the building or structure was designed or intended if so
occupied within a period of six (6) months after the use became nonconforming.
(1982 Code § 9.04.040)
   F.   Change Requires To Conforming Use: The nonconforming use of a building
or structure or land may not be changed except to a conforming use; but where
such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use. In the event that any nonconforming use of land is abandoned
for a period of six (6) months or more, any future use of such land shall be in
accordance with applicable district regulations.
   G.   Expansion, Extension: A nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming
building or structure may be expanded or extended in accordance with the
provisions hereof. An application to expand or extend a nonconforming use shall
be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter pertaining to
expansion of nonconforming uses.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1984)
   H.   Mobile Homes: A nonconforming mobile home owner may remove and replace
his mobile home, provided replacement occurs within a period of three (3)
months of the date on which the mobile home was removed.
   I.   Temporary Mobile Homes During Construction: A nonconforming mobile home
may be used as a temporary dwelling during the construction of a permanent
residence for a time period not to exceed eighteen (18) months.
(1982 Code § 9.04.040)
10-8-2: PERMITS FOR EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
In order to provide the flexibility necessary to achieve the objectives of this
title and to ensure that owners of nonconforming uses and properties are not
deprived of the ability to reasonably expand nonconforming uses in a manner
which does not cause unreasonable nuisance to neighboring landowners and
residents, the limited expansion of such uses shall be permitted subject to the
granting of a permit as set forth in this section.
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to expand a nonconforming use shall
make application therefor to the Planning and Zoning Commission, and the
application shall contain at least the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner and/or applicant;
      2.   A description of the property;
      3.   A description of the existing nonconforming use and the proposed
expansion of such use.
   B.   Commission Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for expansion of a
nonconforming use the Planning and Zoning Commission shall set a date for a
hearing on the application. Notice of such hearing shall be given to all
adjacent property owners by the applicant and proof thereof shall be submitted
by the applicant prior to the hearing date.
   C.   Impacts To Consider: Before acting upon an application for the
expansion of a nonconforming use, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
consider the following impacts of the proposed expansion:
      1.   The impact of the expanded nonconforming use upon neighboring
properties and uses, including traffic, noise, dust, odors and similar impacts;
      2.   The effect of the expanded nonconforming use on public safety,
traffic flow and control, snow removal and street maintenance;
      3.   Such other impacts as the Planning and Zoning Commission deems
applicable to the proposed expansion.
   D.   Required Findings: Before granting a permit for the expansion of a
nonconforming use, the Commission shall make the following findings:
      1.   That the proposed expansion will not cause unacceptable impacts upon
neighboring property owners and residents;
      2.   That the proposed expansion and the conditions under which the
nonconforming use will be operated will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to property or improvements
in the vicinity.
   E.   Action By Commission: Within thirty (30) days after the hearing on the
application, the commission shall act upon the application. The Commission may
approve the application as submitted, approve the application subject to such
modifications or conditions as the Commission deems necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this section, or the Commission may deny the application.
Conditions imposed by the Commission for approval may include, but shall not be
limited to, special setbacks, screening and limitations upon hours of
operation.
   F.   Submittal To Council; Decision Of Council: Within seven (7) days after
the Commission’s decision, the Commission shall transmit its decision to the
applicant and the Town Council. At its next regularly scheduled meeting
following receipt of the decision, the Town Council shall review the action of
the Commission, and shall affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the
Commission. If the Town Council determines that additional information is
necessary in order to act upon the decision of the Commission, the Town Council
may require further information and may, at its option, hold an additional
hearing upon the application. The Town Council shall consider the same impacts
and make the same findings required for action by the Commission under this
section.
(Ord. 129, 2-27-1994)
CHAPTER 9: TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL TRAILERS PARKS
Section
   
10-9-1: Purpose
   
10-9-2: Location And Use
   
10-9-3: Approval Requirements
   
10-9-4: Development Plan
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to permit development of facilities for travel
trailers in appropriate commercial districts and to require that travel trailer
accommodations be of such character as to promote the objectives and purposes
of this title, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the districts
contiguous to those in which travel trailer parks are located, and to protect
other use values contiguous to or near travel trailer park uses.
(Ord. 381, - -2023)
10-9-2: LOCATION AND USE:
   A.   Approved and Licensed Travel Trailer Park: No travel trailer shall be
located, placed, used or occupied for residential purposes in any district,
except within approved and licensed travel trailer/mobile home parks, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   B.   General Permitted Locations: Travel trailer parks generally shall be
located:
      1.   Adjacent to or in close proximity to a major traffic artery or
highway.
      2.   In a Commercial District.
      3.   No AR-1 or AR-2 adjacent location.
   C.   Maximum Term: No individual space in a travel trailer park shall be
used by one individual trailer for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days, nor shall such space be rented or leased to any one
individual for a period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   D.   Prohibited As Permanent Residence: Travel trailers may be stored, but
not used for permanent living quarters.
   E.   Sales Lots: Travel trailers may be stored, displayed, sold and
serviced, but not used for living quarters, in a sales lot in a commercial or
manufacturing district, when such use is a permitted or a conditional use.
   F.   Location Within Mobile Home Park: Travel trailers may be accommodated
in an approved and licensed mobile home park;
   G.   Temporary Residence: Travel trailers may be used as a temporary
residence in the AR-1 and AR-2 zoning districts by the property owner. A
temporary use permit may be granted while construction of permanent residence
is being. A temporary use permit may be issued by the Town council, with a
written plan to address the following:
      1.   Approved septic connection to Town’s sewer system.
      2.   Adequate fire protection as required by the Mid Valley Fire
District.
      3.   Approved water connection to Town’s water system.
      4.   Adequate power source as approved by the local utility company.
(Ord. 381, - -2023)
10-9-3: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
A travel trailer park may not be constructed unless first approved by the
planning commission after review of plans for said travel trailer park which
satisfy the planning commission that the proposed development will:
   A.   District Character: Be in keeping with the general character of the
commercial district with which the proposed development will be located.
   B.   Minimum Area: Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than
one-half (1/2) acre.
   C.   Occupancy: Have at least two (2) spaces completed and ready for
occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted.
   D.   Compliance With Requirements: Meet all requirements of this title and
specifically this chapter.
   E.   State Requirements: Meet all state requirements relating to camp,
trailer, hotel, motel and resort sanitation regulations which are intended to
apply to trailer, camper and tent camps, as defined in such code.
   F.   Density: Contain no more than six (6) units per acre. The spaces may be
clustered; provided, that the total number of spaces does not exceed the number
permitted on one-half acre, multiplied by the number of acres in the
development. The remaining land not contained in individual spaces, roads or
parking, shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and/or service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the development and
visitors thereto.
(Ord. 381, - -2023)
10-9-4: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An overall plan for development of a travel trailer park shall be submitted to
the planning commission for review. The plan shall be drawn to scale. The plan
shall show:
   A.   The topography of the site, when required by the planning commission,
represented by contours shown at not greater than two foot (2') intervals.
   B.   The proposed street and trailer/home space pad layout, including points
of ingress and egress.
   C.   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
   D.   Tabulations showing the percent of area to be devoted to parks,
playgrounds and open spaces, the number of trailer spaces, and the total area
to be developed.
   E.   Proposed location, number and design of parking spaces.
   F.   Generalized landscaping and utility plan, including location of water,
electricity, gas lines and fire hydrants.
   G.   Any other data the planning and zoning commission may require.
(Ord. 381, - -2023)
CHAPTER 10: MOBILE HOMES PARKS
Section
   
10-10-1: Purpose
   
10-10-2: Location And Use
   
10-10-3: Approval Requirements
   10-10-4: Development Plan
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to permit development of facilities for mobile
homes in appropriate commercial districts and to require that mobile home
accommodations be of such character as to promote the objectives and purposes
of this title, to protect the integrity and characteristics of the districts
contiguous to those in which mobile home parks are located, and to protect
other use values contiguous to or near mobile home park uses.
(Ord. 382, - -2023)
10-10-2: LOCATION AND USE:
   A.   Approved and Licensed Mobile Home Park: No mobile home shall be
located, placed, used or occupied for residential purposes in any district,
except within approved and licensed mobile home/mobile home parks, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   B.   General Permitted Locations: Mobile home parks generally shall be
located:
      1.   Adjacent to or in close proximity to a major traffic artery or
highway.
      2.   In a Commercial District.
      3.   No AR-1 or AR-2 adjacent location.
(Ord. 382, - -2023)
10-10-3: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
A mobile home park may not be constructed unless first approved by the planning
commission after review of plans for said mobile home park which satisfy the
planning commission that the proposed development will:
   A.   District Character: Be in keeping with the general character of the
commercial district with which the proposed development will be located.
   B.   Minimum Area: Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than
one (1) acre.
   C.   Occupancy: Have at least four (4) spaces completed and ready for
occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted.
   D.   Compliance With Requirements: Meet all requirements of this title and
specifically this chapter.
   E.   Density: Contain no more than five (5) units per acre. The spaces may
be clustered; provided, that the total number of spaces does not exceed the
number permitted on one acre, multiplied by the number of acres in the
development. The remaining land not contained in individual spaces, roads or
parking, shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and/or service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the development and
visitors thereto.
(Ord. 382, - -2023)
10-10-4: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An overall plan for development of a mobile home park shall be submitted to the
planning commission for review. The plan shall be drawn to scale. The plan
shall show:
   A.   The topography of the site, when required by the planning commission,
represented by contours shown at not greater than two foot (2') intervals.
   B.   The proposed street and trailer/home space pad layout, including points
of ingress and egress.
   C.   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
   D.   Tabulations showing the percent of area to be devoted to parks,
playgrounds and open spaces, the number of trailer spaces, and the total area
to be developed.
   E.   Proposed location, number and design of parking spaces.
   F.   Generalized landscaping and utility plan, including location of water,
electricity, gas lines and fire hydrants.
   G.   Any other data the planning and zoning commission may require.
(Ord. 382, - -2023)
TITLE 11: SUBDIVISION OF LAND
GENERAL PROVISIONS   1
EXEMPTIONS   2
ENGINEERING REVIEWS   3
SIMPLE SUBDIVISIONS   4
GENERAL SUBDIVISIONS   5
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE   6
WARRANTY   7
DESIGN STANDARDS   8
RECAPTURE FEE ORDINANCE   9
Statutory reference:
   Statute authority, see WS § 15-1-501 et seq.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
11-1-1: Title And Authority
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
No Person shall subdivide any tract of land in the Town of Thayne (Town),
except in conformity with the provisions of this Title.
Adoption of this Title supersedes any and all previous Town subdivision
ordinances. An applicant may process applications related to subdivisions as
outlined in this Title. Nothing in this ordinance shall exempt applicants from
the minimum requirements outlined in the Wyoming State Statutes.
Effective 8/17/2022 any subdividing of property will be based upon the recorded
plats with Lincoln County on this date.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the
Town.
   B.   Promote the prosperity of the Town.
   C.   Improve the morals, peace, good order, comfort, convenience, and
aesthetics of the town for all inhabitants and businesses.
   D.   Ensure a sound tax base and protect property values.
   E.   Protect both urban and nonurban development.
   F.   Provide fundamental fairness in land use regulation.
   G.   Facilitate orderly growth.
   H.   Ensure the development of economically sound and compatible
neighborhoods.
   I.   Ensure the construction of necessary improvements and utilities.
   J.   Ensure safe and convenient circulation of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic.
   K.   Ensure development is in accordance with the requirements of the Town’s
General Plan.
   L.   Ensure that new development bears its fair share of the costs of
providing improvements and services necessitated by, or resulting from, the
development of subdivisions.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: A property owner, or the property owner’s designee, who submits a
land use application regarding the property owner’s land.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY:
   1.   Any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use that
creates additional demand and need for public facilities;
   2.   Any change in use of a building or structure that creates additional
demand and need for public facilities; or
   3.   Any change in the use of land that creates additional demand and need
for public facilities.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved or granted for the present or
future use by a person or agency other than the legal owner or owners of said
properties. The easement may be for use under, on, or above said lots.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing for record with the Clerk of Lincoln County and in compliance with all
the requirements set forth in state code and this title.
GENERAL PLAN: A document that Town adopted that sets forth general guidelines
for proposed future development of the land within the Town.
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE OR ASSURANCES: A surety bond, letter of credit
or cash required to guaranty the proper completion of infrastructure
improvement.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY: An applicant’s unconditional warranty that the
applicant’s installed and accepted infrastructure improvement:
   1.   Complies with the Town’s written standards for design, materials, and
workmanship; and
   2.   Will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship
or materials, within the improvement warranty period.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY PERIOD: A period no later than one year after the Town’s
acceptance of required infrastructure.
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT: Permanent infrastructure that is essential for the
public health and safety or that:
   1.   Is required for human occupation; and
   2.   An applicant must install:
      a.   In accordance with published installation and inspection
specifications for public improvements; and
      b.   Whether the improvement is public or private, as a condition of:
         (1)   Recording a subdivision plat;
         (2)   Obtaining a building permit; or
         (3)   Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, condominium,
or multifamily project.
LOT. A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on
a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the Clerk of Lincoln
County.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. A relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots
or between a lot and adjoining parcels.
MAY: Can be done or allowed, optional.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement that:
   1.   Is created or depicted on a plat recorded in a county clerk’s office
and is described as a municipal utility easement granted for public use;
   2.   Is not a protected utility easement or a public utility easement as
defined in Wyoming State Code;
   3.   The Town or the Town’s affiliated governmental entity uses and occupies
to provide a utility service, including sanitary sewer, culinary water,
electrical, storm water, or communications or data lines;
   4.   Is used or occupied with the consent of the Town in accordance with an
authorized franchise or other agreement;
   5.   Is used or occupied by a specified public utility in accordance with an
authorized franchise or other agreement; and is located in a utility easement
granted for public use.
PARCEL: Any real property that is not a lot.
PHASING: The orderly and logical division of a preliminary plat map/subdivision
map to provide for recordation of portions of a plat map/subdivision map at
differing time periods.
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD: The Town’s Planning and Zoning Board. If the Town
does have an active Planning and Zoning Board, the Town Council may act as the
Planning and Zoning Board.
PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphical representation of lands that a licensed professional land
surveyor makes and prepares.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A map or maps of a proposed subdivision and specified
supporting materials, drawn and submitted in accordance with this title and
state code, to permit the evaluation of the proposal prior to detailed
engineering and design.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public that the
public can attend.
PUBLIC STREET: A public right-of-way, including a public highway, public
avenue, public boulevard, public parkway, public road, public lane, public
alley, public viaduct, public subway, public tunnel, public bridge, public
byway, other public transportation easement, or other public way.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
Wyoming State Code.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A right-of-way that has been established by either deed,
conveyance or court order.
SHALL: Must, mandatory, required to be done.
STATE: Includes any department, division, or agency of the state.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, re-subdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the Town Council to administer
the subdivision process in the Town. The person could be the mayor, other town
official, or a Town employee.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
CHAPTER 2: EXEMPTIONS
Section
11-2-1: Exemptions
11-2-1: EXEMPTIONS:
This title shall not apply to:
   A.   The transfer of any parcel of land by order of court.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
CHAPTER 3: ENGINEERING REVIEWS
Section
11-3-1: Licensed Engineer
11-3-2: Engineering Fees
11-3-1: LICENSED ENGINEER:
The Town Engineer will be licensed within the State to review, supervise and
inspect the construction of all public improvements within the Town, in order
to ensure such improvements are constructed in accordance with the Town
standard specifications and this title. The developer will not materially
deviate from the improvement plans, standard specifications or this title
without the express written approval of the Town.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-3-2: ENGINEERING FEES:
The developer shall pay for the fees incurred by the Town to retain the Town
Engineer to review plans and inspect the construction of all public
improvements. The Town shall provide the developer with an invoice for such
services on a regular basis. The developer shall pay for such engineering costs
within thirty (30) days of its receipt of the invoice for the engineering
costs.
(Ord. 248, 6-11-2008; amd. Ord. 373, - -2022)
CHAPTER 4: SIMPLE SUBDIVISIONS
Section
11-4-1: Applicability
11-4-2: Pre-Application Conference
11-4-3: Simple Subdivision Application
11-4-4: Simple Subdivision Final Plat
11-4-5: Simple Subdivision Application And Final Plat Consideration Process
11-4-6: Recordation Of Final Plat
11-4-1: APPLICABILITY:
Simple subdivision requirements shall apply to subdivisions that:
   A.   Create one or two lots, or
   B.   Consolidate one or more lots; or,
   C.   Change a boundary line between two adjoining lots or parcels; or,
   D.   Change a subdivision plat to correct errors in legal descriptions or
monument locations; and
   E.   Require no change in zoning.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-4-2: PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE:
The landowner(s) and/or has representative shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator in a pre-application conference and discuss the following:
   A.   The scope of the proposed project and the applicant’s specific
development objectives.
   B.   The applications anticipated project schedule.
   C.   Approvals required by the Town before any development can occur.
   D.   The documents, plans, drawings, fees and other materials that will be
that will be needed to process a complete subdivision application.
   E.   Potential issues associated with the subdivision.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-4-3: SIMPLE SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
Applicant shall file simple subdivision application form with the Town Clerk.
The application shall include the following:
   A.   Name and address of the owner and applicant.
   B.   Legal description of the property to be subdivided.
   C.   A copy of the deed and easements pertaining to the property.
   D.   Existing zoning for the property.
   E   A list of all landowners who own property within 300 feet of the
proposed subdivision.
   F.   Site plan including but not limited to existing and proposed streets,
existing structures, irrigation facilities, existing and proposed utilities
(water, sewer, power, communications), topography, existing and proposed storm
drainage structure.
   G.   Planned water system, as well as anticipated average day and maximum
day water demand and fire flow requirements.
   H.   Planned wastewater system, as well as anticipated average daily flows.
   I.   Filing fees.
(Ord. 373, - -2022; amd. Ord. 384, - -2023)
11-4-4: SIMPLE SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAT:
The final plat map shall be prepared and signed by a Wyoming licensed surveyor
and include the following:
   A.   The proposed subdivision name. (It must be distinct from any other plat
recorded in the County. North arrow required.)
   B.   Details of proposed development. All lots shall have clear dimensions,
boundaries and liner footages of lot width and depth. Square footage of each
lot shall be clearly shown in hundredths of an acre (and square foot for lots
less than 0.5 acres in size).
   C.   All survey monument locations and related survey information.
   D.   Any street dedications, street names and street dimensions.
   E.   Any areas dedicated for public use or purpose.
   F.   Length and width of blocks.
   G.   Any existing structures.
   H.   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easements for any underground
facilities, water conveyance facility or any other utility facility.
   I.   Any other utility facility or roadway that is not recorded that the
owner or applicant has knowledge of.
   J.   Any other information that the owner or applicant has constructive
knowledge of including information from the state engineers’ office, from any
surveys done on the subject property, from FEMA or the Army Corps of Engineers.
   K.   The approval signature blocks for the owner, surveyor, Clerk, Mayor,
and Clerk of Lincoln County. All signatures shall be on the final plat and the
owner(s) signature(s) must be notarized.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-4-5: SIMPLE SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND FINAL PLAT CONSIDERATION PROCESS:
   A.   The Zoning Administrator shall review the final plat for completeness
and conformance with applicable Town codes, development standards, and design
criteria and prepare a staff report with recommendations.
   B.   The Town Clerk shall notify, in writing, all landowners of properties
that are located within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision. This notice will
generally advise landowners of the proposed subdivision, and the date when any
written comments from the general public are to be received. The deadline for
written comments shall be two weeks from the date of the date of the mailing.
   C.   The Town Planning and Zoning Board shall review and discuss the
recommendations of the Zoning Administrator. No public hearing will be
required. Subsequently, the Town Planning and Zoning Board shall approve,
recommend approval of the proposed subdivision; or denial of the proposed
subdivision. In the event that further information is desired by the Town
Planning and Zoning Board, any decision of the Town Planning and Zoning Board
may be tabled until members of the Planning and Zoning Board have had
sufficient opportunity to review and evaluate the information.
   D.   The Town Council shall review the recommendation of the Town Planning
and Zoning Board. The Town Council shall, approve, approve with conditions or
modifications; or deny the proposed subdivision.
   E.   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a written notice of determination
to the applicant within five (5) business days of the decision of the Town
Council. The notice will indicate the decision made and, when appropriate,
conditions that may accompany the approval of a specific application or reasons
why the application was denied.
   F.   Any appeal of the decisions by the Town Planning and Zoning Board shall
be made to the Town Council.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-4-6: RECORDATION OF FINAL PLAT:
The applicant shall have one year from date of Town Council approval to record
the final plat. If the final plat has not been recorded within one year of the
Town Council approval date, the final plat approval shall become null and void.
   A.   All fees shall be paid to the Town prior to recordation of the plat.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
Simple Subdivision Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1ce29ea813a7360037e3e699c19a78e3a9247fa6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-894.png]
 
CHAPTER 5: GENERAL SUBDIVISIONS
Section
11-5-1: Applicability
11-5-2: Pre-Application Conference
11-5-3: General Subdivision Application
11-5-4: Master Plan Report
11-5-5: Preliminary Plat Application Process
11-5-6: Agency Letters - Requirements
11-5-7: Phasing Of Subdivisions - Preliminary Plat
11-5-8: Preliminary Plat Consideration Process
11-5-9: Approval Time Period And Extension
11-5-10: Developers Agreement
11-5-11: Final Plat Approval
11-5-12: Recordation Of Final Plat
11-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
General subdivision requirements shall apply to subdivisions that:
   A.   Create three or more lots.
   B.   May or may not conform to existing zoning.
   C.   May require the construction of new municipal streets, extension of
municipal water, wastewater, and storm management systems, or the development
of other public improvements.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-2: PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE:
The landowner(s) and/or has representative shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator in a pre-application conference and discuss the following:
   A.   The scope of the proposed project and the applicant’s specific
development objectives.
   B.   The applications anticipated project schedule.
   C.   Approvals required by the Town before any development can occur.
   D.   The documents, plans, drawings, fees and other materials that will be
that will be needed to process a complete subdivision application.
   E.   Potential issues associated with the subdivision.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-3: GENERAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
Applicant shall file a general subdivision application and re-zone application
(if applicable) with the Town Clerk. The application shall include the
following:
   A.   Name and address of the owner and applicant.
   B.   Legal description of the property to be subdivided.
   C.   A copy of the deed and easements pertaining to the property.
   D.   Existing zoning for the property.
   E.   A list of all landowners who own property within 300 feet of the
proposed subdivision.
   F.   Filing fees.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-4: MASTER PLAN REPORT:
Applicant shall complete and file a master plan report for the proposed
subdivision with the Town Clerk. The master plan will address what municipal
services the subdivision intends to use, as well as the potential impact of the
proposed subdivision upon the Town and the community. The master plan, which
will contain a combination of technical narrative, statistical tables, and
illustrations, will address, at least, the following issues:
   A.   The purpose of the subdivision and proposed land uses.
   B.   A development schedule for proposed land uses.
   C.   The number of lots being created and, if applicable, the zoning
designations requested for each lot.
   D.   Planned water system, as well as anticipated average day and maximum
day water demand and fire flow requirements.
   E.   Planned wastewater system, as well as anticipated average daily flows.
   F.   Planned points of access to municipal roads, Lincoln County roads, and
U.S. Highway 89, anticipated average and peak day traffic volumes.
   G.   Planned stormwater management plan and anticipated stormwater flows for
10-year storm event.
   H.   Description of soil types, wetland areas, and topography of the site
and discussion of subdivision design considerations related to site conditions.
   I.   Discussion of existing and proposed irrigation systems and water
rights.
   J.   Planned easements to accommodate access to, or the extension of, the
Town’s planned community trail system, if applicable.
   K.   The following detailed engineering reports may be required, as
requested by the Town Engineer. A licensed Wyoming civil engineer shall prepare
the reports:
      1.   Soils Report.
      2.   Storm Drainage Report showing pre and post development runoff
calculations and proposed drainage structures.
      3.   Traffic Study performed in July or August.
(Ord. 373, - -2022; amd. Ord. 384, - -2023)
11-5-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION PROCESS:
Concurrently with the Master Plan Report the applicant shall submit a
preliminary plat. The preliminary plat map shall be prepared and signed by a
Wyoming licensed surveyor and include the following:
   A.   The proposed subdivision name. (It must be distinct from any other plat
recorded in the County. North arrow required.)
   B.   Details of proposed development. (All lots shall have clear dimensions,
boundaries and liner footages of lot width and depth. Square footage of each
lot shall be clearly shown.)
   C.   Any street dedications, street names and lot addresses along with
street dimensions and cross-sections.
   D.   Any areas dedicated for public use or purpose.
   E.   Any private streets with street dimensions and cross-sections.
   F.   Any proposed storm drains.
   G.   Location of any known man-made features on the subject property.
   H.   Location of any existing or known water and sewer infrastructure
(mainlines, valves, manholes, fire hydrants, water and sewer services, etc.)
   I.   Length and width of blocks.
   J.   Any existing structures.
   K.   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easements for any underground
facilities, water conveyance facility or any other utility facility.
   L.   Any other utility facility or roadway that is not recorded that the
owner or applicant has knowledge of.
   M.   Any other information that the owner or applicant has constructive
knowledge of including information from the state engineers’ office, from any
surveys done on the subject property, from FEMA or the Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-6: AGENCY LETTERS - REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Written acknowledgments of ability to serve the development from the
local fire authority.
   B.   Written comments from Lincoln County.
   C.   Written comments from WYDOT if the subdivision directly accesses
Highway 98, secondary access is within five hundred feet (500') Highway 89, or
if the town deems necessary.
   D.   Written comments from Wyoming State Fire Marshall.
(Ord. 373, - -2022; amd. Ord. 384, - -2023)
11-5-7: PHASING OF SUBDIVISIONS - PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Subdivisions may be phased. Separate phases may be recorded, and infrastructure
constructed per phase subject to the following:
   A.   Phasing shall require the submittal of a phasing plan at the time of
submittal of preliminary plat approval.
   B.   All phases shall be in conformance with the preliminary plat
application and the phasing plan shall provide all necessary information to
fully evaluate the merits of the phasing program.
   C.   Each phase shall stand on its own regarding public improvements, so
that if subsequent phases are not recorded, pre-recorded phases can function
without need of future phased development.
   D.   Temporary public improvements may be required, so that no phase is
dependent upon construction of a subsequent phase.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-8: PRELIMINARY PLAT CONSIDERATION PROCESS:
   A.   Within 45 days of the receipt of a complete application and support
materials, the Zoning Administrator shall provide a written staff report to the
Town Planning and Zoning Board and Town Council that confirms the completeness
of the subdivision application, the receipt of required filing fees, and
potential changes in zoning. Based upon comments received from agencies and
other municipal representatives, this report shall concurrently evaluate the
following:
      1.   Consistency of the proposed subdivision with the Town Municipal
Master Plan;
      2.   Consistency of the proposed subdivision with subdivision development
standards and design criteria outlined in Appendix D of Title 11;
      3.   Compatibility and potential impacts of the proposed subdivision and
related zone change upon adjoining land uses;
      4.   Suitability of the subject and adjacent properties to existing
zoning;
      5.   Potential impacts of the proposed subdivision upon the Town, e.g.,
municipal roads, water system, wastewater system, storm water management, and
other public services; and,
      6.   When applicable, potential land use management issues that may arise
with the establishment of planned covenants, contracts or deed restrictions via
common-interest development.
      7.   The staff report shall also recommend approval of the subdivision as
proposed, approval with some possible modifications to the preliminary plat, or
provide rationale for denial of the preliminary plat and, when applicable, the
related re-zoning request.
   B.   The Town Clerk shall notify, in writing, all landowners of properties
that are located within 300 feet of the proposed major subdivision. This notice
will generally advise landowners of the proposed subdivision, the time and
place of public hearings before the Planning and Zoning Board and Town Council,
and the date when any written comments from the general public are to be
received.
   C.   Upon receiving the staff report from the Zoning Administrator, a public
hearing shall be required at the next regular meeting of the Planning and
Zoning Board, or a special meeting shall be scheduled. The time and place of
the hearing shall be advertised twice, at least, in advance of the hearing in
two or more of the following local newspaper, town website, town social media
account, or public buildings within the town. During the public hearing, the
applicant will provide a brief overview of the proposed subdivision and, when
applicable, the related re-zoning request. Subsequently, the Town Planning and
Zoning Board will receive public comments concerning the proposed subdivision.
   D.   Based upon its evaluation of the master plan, preliminary plat, review
comments from municipal representatives, the staff report, and public comments,
the Town Planning and Zoning Board will discuss the merits, disadvantages, and
potential issues associated with the proposed subdivision and, when applicable,
the related re-zoning request. In the event that further information is desired
by the Planning and Zoning Board, any decision of the Planning and Zoning Board
may be tabled, for not to exceed 30 days, until members of the Planning and
Zoning Board have had sufficient opportunity to review and evaluate any new
information.
   E.   The Town Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend approval, approval
with conditions or modifications, or denial of the proposed subdivision to the
Town Council. The decision to approve or deny the preliminary subdivision plat
and any related re-zoning request shall be concurrent.
   F.   The Town Council shall review and discuss comments from various
municipal representatives, the recommendations of the Zoning Administrator, and
the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board. Subsequently, the Town
Council shall approve, approve with conditions or modifications, or deny the
preliminary subdivision plat and, when applicable, the proposed re-zoning
request. In the event that further information is desired by the Town Council,
any decision of the Town Council may be tabled until members of the Town
Council have had sufficient opportunity to review and evaluate any new
information.
   G.   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a written notice of determination
to the applicant within five (5) business days of the decision of the Town
Council. The notice will indicate the decision made and, when appropriate,
conditions that may accompany the approval of the preliminary subdivision plat
and, when applicable, related re-zoning request, or reasons why the plat and
re-zoning requests were denied.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-9: APPROVAL TIME PERIOD AND EXTENSION:
Preliminary plat approval shall remain in effect for a period of one year after
Town Council approval. An extension may be considered by the Planning
Commission and Town Council prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat
approval date.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-10: DEVELOPERS AGREEMENT:
Upon Planning Commission and Town Council approval of the preliminary plat, the
applicant shall prepare and submit a Developers Agreement for review and
approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-11: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon approval and execution of the developer’s agreement, the applicant
can submit the final plat application to the Town Council for consideration.
The final plat shall contain all information outlined in Chapter 4B. The final
plat shall also contain the following additional information:
      1.   The proposed subdivision name. (It must be distinct from any other
plat recorded in the County. North arrow required.)
      2.   Details of proposed development. All lots shall have clear
dimensions, boundaries and liner footages of lot width and depth. Square
footage of each lot shall be clearly shown in hundredths of an acre (and square
foot for lots less than 0.5 acres in size).
      3   All survey monument locations and related information.
      4.   Any street dedications, street names and street dimensions.
      5.   Any areas dedicated for public use or purpose.
      6.   Length and width of blocks.
      7.   Any existing structures.
      8.   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easements for any
underground facilities, water conveyance facility or any other utility
facility.
      9.   Any other utility facility or roadway that is not recorded that the
owner or applicant has knowledge of.
      10.   Any other information that the owner or applicant has constructive
knowledge of including information from the state engineers’ office, from any
surveys done on the subject property, from FEMA or the Army Corps of Engineers.
      11.   The approval signature blocks for the owner, surveyor, Clerk,
Mayor, and Clerk of Lincoln County. All signatures shall be on the final plat
and the owner(s) signature(s) must be notarized.
   B.   The Town Council shall not approve the final plat until all the
improvements required by this title have been installed, inspected, or properly
secured as required by Chapter 5.
**If no public infrastructure or other public improvements are required, the
preliminary and final plat may be reviewed concurrently.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
11-5-12: RECORDATION OF FINAL PLAT:
The applicant shall have one year from date of Town Council approval to record
the final plat. If the final plat has not been recorded within one year of the
Town Council approval date, the final plat approval shall become null and void.
   A.   All fees shall be paid to the Town prior to recordation of the plat.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
Appendix C: General Subdivision Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1ce29ea813a7360037e3e699c19a78e3a9247fa6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-898.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1ce29ea813a7360037e3e699c19a78e3a9247fa6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-900.png]
 
CHAPTER 6: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE
Section
   
11-6-1: Improvement Completion Assurance
11-6-1: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE:
   A.   Before an applicant conducts any development, activity or records a
plat, the applicant shall:
      1.   Complete any required infrastructure improvements, or post
improvement completion assurance. If completion assurance is elected the
applicant shall provide completion assurance for:
         a.   Completion of 100 percent of the required infrastructure
improvements or 100 percent of the incomplete or unaccepted infrastructure
improvements.
         b.   This Chapter does not apply if the proposed improvements are
private and not essential to building code, fire code, flood or storm water
management provisions, street and access requirements, or other essential
necessary public safety improvements.
      2.   Completion assurance can be accepted by the Town in the following
forms:
         a.   A bond with a surety company licensed to do business in the State
of Wyoming, having a bond rating of AAA.
         b.   Irrevocable letter of credit from a federally insured
institution.
         c.   Cash deposit.
   B.   Completion assurance shall be in amount that reflects 125 percent of
the anticipated cost of improvements.
   C.   Any of the above forms of assurance must be approved by the Town
Attorney prior to Town acceptance.
      1.   Assurance release
         a.   Assurance may be partially released as portions of required
infrastructure improvements are completed and accepted by the Town.
         b.   Funds held as security shall be released by the Town equal to the
actual cost of performing the work minus ten percent. Partial assurance release
shall be subject to the Town Engineer’s acceptance of a logical completion of
infrastructure improvements required to support the subject development.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
CHAPTER 7: WARRANTY
Section
   
11-7-1: Warranty
11-7-1: WARRANTY:
A one-year improvement warranty period is required. Terms of the warranty
period shall be defined in the developers agreement. Once all improvements have
been inspected and accepted by the Town, the one-year improvement warranty
period shall begin. At the time of acceptance, any assurance accepted by the
Town for improvements shall be released (except ten percent). Ten percent of
the assurance amount shall be held by the Town to guarantee the quality of
workmanship and materials during the one-year improvement warranty period.
After one year has elapsed and after the Town inspection reveals no quality or
workmanship issues, the remainder of the assurance shall be released.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
CHAPTER 8: DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   11-8-1: Design Standards
11-8-1: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Conformity.
      1.   All public improvements shall be in substantial conformity with the
preliminary plat as approved, and in accordance with good engineering and
construction practices. The Town Engineer may modify any design standard if
found necessary to provide for orderly development.
      2.   All public improvements design and construction shall conform to the
Town Public Works Standard Specifications and Drawings
   B.   Streets.
      1.   Streets shall be developed in accordance with the town road
masterplan.
      2.   The subdivider shall be required to make and install improvements to
existing streets within and abutting the subdivision. The improvements do not
include the requirement for street paving of the abutting streets unless it is
determined necessary by the Town Engineer to provide for logical and proper
development.
      3.   Wherever topography will permit, the arrangement of the streets
shall provide for alignment with, and a continuation of, existing streets and
adjoining areas.
      4.   Cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular turn-around, have a
minimum right-of-way of at least 120 feet in diameter, and a paved turn-around
with a minimum outside diameter of 100 feet.
         a.   Cul-de-sacs shall be no longer that 700 feet unless otherwise
approved by the Town Engineer.
      5.   Whenever a new street is proposed along the edge of the subdivision,
the entire street shall be dedicated and improved with the subdivision.
      6.   No more than two streets shall intersect at any point.
         a.   A street shall have a minimum straight distance of 100 feet from
the intersection before it may be curved.
      7.   A straight section of 100 feet shall be provided between reverse
curves on all streets.
      8.   All lots in the subdivision will have direct access to a dedicated
street, that has been improved to Town standards and adopted by the Town
subject to the following exception:
         a.   private access drives may be approved for subdivisions with a
total of three or less units in the residential zoning district(s).
      9.   The length of local streets between intersections shall be subject
to a maximum of 1,320 feet.
      10.   The town must approve street names.
      11.   The minimum dedicated right-of-way and roadway section shall be as
follows:
 
Street Classification Minimum Right-of-Way Standard Road Section
Major Collector       70 feet              See Public Works Standards and
                                           Specifications
Minor Collector       60 feet              See Public Works Standards and
                                           Specifications
Local                 60 feet              See Public Works Standards and
                                           Specifications
 
      12.   Subdivisions, which include any part of an existing platted street,
which do not conform to the minimum right-of-way requirements of these
regulations, may be required to provide additional width necessary to meet the
minimum right-of-way requirements of these regulations as determined by the
Town Engineer.
      13.   The profile grade of streets with curb and gutter shall not be less
than one-half of one percent.
      14.   Minimum street design standards shall be as follows:
 
                            Maximum                           Minimum Angle
Street         Design Speed Percent Minimum K   Minimum K Sag for
Classification              Grade   Crest Curve Curve         Intersecting
                                                              Road
Major          50           7%      44          64            60 degrees
Collector
Minor          30           7%      19          37            60 degrees
Collector
Local          30           7%      19          37            60 degrees
 
   15.   Any requested variations from the minimum street design standards
shall be reviewed by the Town Engineer. The Town Engineer shall make a written
recommendation to the Town Council regarding the requested variation. The Town
Council shall make the final decision on design variations.
   16.   Roadway access for Major and Minor Collectors shall be limited as
follows (spacing in feet):
 
Access Type Field Residential Commercial Major
Field       220   220         330        660
Residential 220   440         660        660
Commercial  330   660         660        660
Major       660   660         660        660
 
         Field - An entrance to and/or exit from a field or unoccupied property
if the access is not used daily throughout the year. Daily use for only a few
weeks a year still qualifies as field access.
         Residential - An access providing entrance to and/or exit from
residential dwelling(s) for exclusive use and benefit of those residing
therein.
         Commercial - An entrance into and/or exit from any business,
commercial development, cultural/institutional complex, public establishment,
or any development serving 10 or more family residences.
         Major - Any access that generates more than 50 trip ends in any hour
of a typical day or is a public street or access.
   C.   Lots and Blocks.
      1.   Every lot shall front on a designated collector or local street,
subject to the following exception:
         a.   Private shared access drives accessing more than one dwelling
unit may be allowable in subdivisions containing a total of three or less
dwelling units in residential zoning districts.
      2.   No residential lot shall front on an arterial street. No access
shall be permitted directly from a residential lot to an arterial street.
      3.   Every parcel of land created by a subdivision shall comply with the
minimum lot size requirements of this code and shall be platted as part of a
subdivision. No parcel of land shall be created or left unplatted which is
either undevelopable or serves merely as a nuisance or lot remnant.
      4.   Flag Lots: In order to encourage the more efficient use of land,
flag, or L-shaped lots may be allowed as an exception (a permitted use within
the sensitive area overlay district) subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The staff portion of said lot shall front on and be contiguous to
a dedicated public street or private street. The minimum width of the staff
portion of a flag lot shall be thirty feet (30'), and the maximum length shall
be two hundred feet (200') unless otherwise approved by the planning
commission.
         b.   No building or construction, except for driveways, shall be
allowed on the staff portion of said lot unless the minimum width thereof is
the same or greater than the minimum width for a lot as allowed in the
underlying zone (excluding entrance features and streetlights).
         c.   The square footage located in the flag portion of said lot, which
shall be exclusive of the square footage located in the staff portion of said
lot, shall be the same or greater than the minimum square footage as required
in the underlying zone,
         d.   The front, side, and rear yard requirements of the flag portion
of said lots shall be the same as is required in the underlying zone.
         e.   A duplex, twin home, or any other multi-family dwelling shall not
be located on a flag lot.
         f.   All flag lots in the development shall be approved by the
planning commission.
   D.   Fire Hydrants.
      1.   Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivision developments
when water infrastructure is extended into subdivision.
         a.   Such fire hydrants shall be of a type, size, and number as
approved by the town planning and zoning or town council and shall comply with
DEQ regulations.
         b.   Each public street shall have at least one fire hydrant.
   E.   Public sites and open spaces.
      1.   Where a proposed park, playground, school, or other public use shown
in the general plan is located in whole or in part of a subdivision, the
planning commission may require the dedication or reservation of such area
within the subdivision when the planning commission deems such requirements to
be reasonable.
   F.   Monuments.
      1.   Monuments shall be placed at all corners of all street
intersections, at the intersections of the boundary of the subdivision with
street right-of-way lines, at angle points and points of curve in each street
and at points of change in direction of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision.
      2.   The top of the monument shall have a metal cap set flush to identify
the location. All lot corners shall be monumented with a minimum of a No. 5
rebar 24 inches in length and metal cap.
   G.   Driveways:
      1.   Driveways exceeding 200 feet in length and/or 7% grade must be
approved by the Fire Marshall.
      2.   A turnout(s) (30 feet long by 10 feet wide minimum) shall be
required for any driveway in excess of 150 feet in length, with locations
determined by the Fire Marshall.
      3.   Driveways serving single residential dwellings shall have an
improved surface of a minimum of 12 feet wide. Driveways serving two or more
residential dwellings shall have an improved surface of at least 16 feet in
width.
   H.   Easements.
      1.   Easements shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall
be at least ten (10) feet wide or a width determined by the Town Engineer. All
lots shall have utility easements on two sides.
   I.   Signage.
      1.   All street signage shall comply with WYDOT requirements.
   J.   Other. The Town Engineer shall have the authority to determine any
design standard not addressed in this chapter.
(Ord. 373, - -2022)
CHAPTER 9: RECAPTURE FEE ORDINANCE
Section
   11-9-1: Title
   11-9-2: Policy Adopted
   11-9-3: Recapture Agreement
   11-9-4: Recapture Fee List
   11-9-5: Payment of Fee
   11-9-6: Collection of Funds
   11-9-7: Town Control of Utilities
11-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the Recapture Fee Ordinance.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
11-9-2: POLICY ADOPTED:
The Town of Thayne requires developers to make public works improvements
necessary for their development. Whenever such public works improvements may
benefit the owners of adjacent parcels, developers shall be entitled to
recapture a portion of the costs of such public works improvements as provided
herein.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
11-9-3: RECAPTURE AGREEMENT:
   A.   Agreement With Developer: Whenever the developer of a parcel shall be
required to install sewers or other utilities which may benefit properties not
owned by the developer, the Town of Thayne board may enter into a recapture
agreement requiring reasonable reimburse to the developer for his expenditures.
   B.   Terms Of Agreement: Each recapture agreement entered into under the
provisions of this chapter shall be negotiated by the Town of Thayne without
consideration for the existence or terms of any other such recapture
agreements, and shall contain the following provisions:
      1.   No recapture agreement shall extend for a term beyond ten (10) years
from its date.
      2.   The amount to be recaptured from each parcel shall either be set
forth specifically, or shall be determined by a precise formula which can be
used to calculate the specific sum to be recaptured.
      3.   Each parcel required to pay a recapture fee shall be specifically
identified.
      4.   The recapture agreement shall contain a finding that the amount to
be recaptured does not exceed the benefits accruing to the property required to
pay the recapture funds; and that the total amount recaptured is not greater
than the cost of providing the estimated benefits to property not owned by the
developer.
      5.   Reimbursement to the developer would be one hundred percent (100%)
of the pro rata share during the first five (5) years following construction of
the improvements; cost would then be depreciated ten percent (10%) per year
thereafter.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
11-9-4:RECAPTURE FEE LIST:
   A.   Preparation by Town of Thayne/Town Engineer: Whenever the Town of
Thayne has entered into a recapture agreement with a developer, the Town of
Thayne shall:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days, determine from the terms of the agreement
the amount of funds to be collected from each parcel of land benefited,
(hereinafter the “recapture fee”); and
      2.   Prepare an official “recapture fee list” of the said parcels setting
forth the recapture fees for each parcel.
   B.   List Submitted To Developer: The recapture fee list shall be submitted
to the developer and to the Thayne Town Council at its next regular meeting for
approval; and after being approved by the Town Council, shall be recorded by
the town clerk in the office of the recorder of deeds of Lincoln County along
with a copy of the recapture agreement.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
11-9-5: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Whenever application is made to subdivide, or for a permit to install or
construct any buildings or improvements or connect any utilities upon any
parcel listed in any recapture fee list, in addition to all other costs, fees
or requirements provided by ordinance, the applicant shall pay to the Town of
Thayne the amount set forth in the recapture fee list before the application
shall be processed.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
11-9-6: COLLECTION OF FUNDS:
Whenever any funds are collected by the Town of Thayne as provided in any
recapture agreement list, within thirty (30) days thereafter the funds shall be
forwarded to the developer, after deducting therefrom any funds which might
then be due or owing from the developer to the town.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
11-9-7:VILLAGE CONTROL OF UTILITIES:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the town shall have
sole ownership and control of all and any portions of the sewer systems, water
lines, roadways, or other utilities which are constructed pursuant to any
recapture agreement.
(Ord. 374, - -2022)
TITLE 12: ANNEXATIONS
ANNEXATION; DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES; ADDITION AND EXCLUSION OF LAND   1
CHAPTER 1: ANNEXATION; DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES; ADDITION AND EXCLUSION OF
LAND
Section
12-1-1: Definitions
12-1-2: Annexing Territories; Findings Required; When Contiguity Not Deemed
Affected; Annexation Report
12-1-3: Annexing Territories; Initiation Of Proceedings; By Landowners’
Petition; Validity Of Signatures; Determinations
12-1-4: Annexing Territories; Initiation Of Proceedings; By Governing Bodies;
Determination
12-1-5: Annexing Territories; Public Hearing Required; Notice Thereof
12-1-6: Annexing Territories; Annexation Ordinance; Objections; Exception;
Prohibition
12-1-7: Annexing Territories; When Notice And Public Hearing Not Necessary;
Statement Required
12-1-8: Annexing Territories; Effective Dates
12-1-9: Annexing Territories; Appeal; Determination; Time For Review;
Exclusiveness Of Appeal Remedy
12-1-10: Annexing Territories; Extension Of Laws And Rights; Extension Of
Public Utility Service
12-1-11: Incorporation Of Territory Within Potential Urban Area
12-1-12: When Written Consent Of Landowners Required For Annexation; Exception
12-1-13: Survey Of Boundaries; When And How To Be Made; Presumption Once
Recorded
12-1-14: Survey Of Boundaries; Oath Required; Filing Thereof
12-1-15: Additions To Towns By Subdividing Landowners; Plat Requirements;
Filing And Effect Thereof; Controlling Layout of Streets
12-1-16: Landowner Petition To Exclude Tract From Town; Disposition Thereof;
Exclusion Of Land For Highway Purposes
12-1-17: Annexing Contiguous Towns; Procedure
12-1-18: Annexing Contiguous Towns; Annexation Ordinance; Filing
12-1-19: Annexing Contiguous Towns; Effective Dates; Appeals
12-1-20: Annexing Contiguous Towns; How Governed; Extension of Laws, Rights And
Utilities; Dissolution Of Annexed Town; Disposition of Assets And Liabilities
12-1-21: Municipal De-Annexation
12-1-22: Prohibited Acts
12-1-23: Municipal Growth Management Agreements
12-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
BUSINESS DAY: Any day other than Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday as
established by the annexing municipality.
LANDOWNER: The owner of real property in the territory proposed to be annexed
who in the last calendar year was liable for a property tax thereon or was
exempt by law from the payment of taxes on the property. Anyone having a right
to purchase land under a written contract is the owner of that land for
annexation purposes. For purposes of sections
12-1-2 ,
12-1-4  and
12-1-5  of this chapter, LANDOWNER shall include persons owning property which,
as a result of the proposed annexation would then be brought within one-half
(1/2) mile of the corporate limits of a Town which has exercised the authority
granted under Wyoming Statutes section 15-3-202(b)(ii).
PETITION: A legibly written document.
12-1-2: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; FINDINGS REQUIRED; WHEN CONTIGUITY NOT DEEMED
AFFECTED; ANNEXATION REPORT:
   A.   Before any territory is eligible for annexation, the governing body of
the Town at a hearing as provided in section
12-1-5 of this chapter shall find that:
      1.   An annexation of the area is for the protection of the health,
safety and welfare of the persons residing in the area and in the Town;
      2.   The urban development of the area sought to be annexed would
constitute a natural, geographical, economical and social part of the annexing
Town;
      3.   The area sought to be annexed is a logical and feasible addition to
the annexing Town and the extension of basic and other services customarily
available to residents of the Town shall, within reason, be available to the
area proposed to be annexed;
      4.   The area sought to be annexed is contiguous with or adjacent to the
annexing Town, or the area meets the requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter;
      5.   If the Town does not own or operate its own electric utility, its
governing body is prepared to issue one (1) or more franchises as necessary to
serve the annexed area pursuant to section
12-1-10 of this chapter; and
      6.   The annexing Town, not less than twenty (20) business days prior to
the public hearing required by section
12-1-5A of this chapter, has sent by certified mail to all landowners and
affected public utilities within the territory a summary of the proposed
annexation report as required under subsection C of this section and notice of
the time, date and location of the public hearing required by section
12-1-5A of this chapter.
   B.   Contiguity will not be adversely affected by the existence of a platted
street or alley, a public or private right-of-way, a public or private
transportation right-of-way, a lake, stream, reservoir or other natural or
artificial waterway located between the annexing Town and the land sought to be
annexed.
   C.   An annexing municipality shall prepare a proposed annexation report as
specified in this subsection. The report shall, at a minimum, contain:
      1.   A map of the area proposed to be annexed showing identifiable
landmarks and boundaries and the area which will, as a result of the annexation
then be brought within one-half (1/2) mile of the new corporate limits of the
Town, if it has exercised the authority granted under Wyoming Statutes section
15-3-202(b)(ii);
      2.   The total estimated cost of infrastructure improvements required of
all landowners by the annexing municipality related to the annexation;
      3.   A list of basic and other services customarily available to
residents of the Town and a timetable when those services will reasonably be
available to the area proposed to be annexed;
      4.   A projected annual fee or service cost for services described in
subsection 3 of this section;
      5.   The current and projected property tax mill levies imposed by the
municipality; and
      6.   The cost of infrastructure improvements required within the existing
boundaries of the municipality to accommodate the proposed annexation.
   D.   For annexations initiated under section
12-1-3 of this chapter, the Town may collect the cost of preparing the proposed
annexation report from the petitioning landowners.
   E.   Before any territory is eligible for annexation the governing body
shall prepare for each landowner and affected public utility so requesting in
writing, the estimated cost of infrastructure improvements required of the
landowner and affected public utility related to the annexation. The request
shall be made to the Town Clerk not less than ten (10) days prior to the public
hearing required by section
12-1-5A of this chapter. The estimate shall be provided to the landowner and
affected public utility prior to the hearing.
12-1-3: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS; BY LANDOWNERS;
PETITION; VALIDITY OF SIGNATURES; DETERMINATIONS:
   A.   The proceedings for annexation of eligible territory may be initiated
by a written petition filed with the Town Clerk to which annexation of the
territory is proposed, after compliance with the following conditions and
procedures:
      1.   The petition is signed and dated by a majority of the landowners
owning a majority of the area sought to be annexed, excluding public streets
and alleys and tax exempt property;
      2.   The petition contains the following detailed information:
         a.   A legal description of the area sought to be annexed;
    b.   A request that the described territory be annexed;
         c.   A statement that each signer is an owner of land and a
description of his land within the area proposed to be annexed; and
         d.   A map of the area.
   B.   No signature on the petition is valid if it is dated more than one
hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date of filing the petition with the
Town Clerk. No person signing a petition for annexation may withdraw his
signature from the petition after it has been filed with the Town Clerk.
   C.   The Town Clerk shall within ten (10) days from the date the petition is
filed, determine if the petition substantially complies with this chapter.
   D.   If the petition complies, the Clerk shall certify compliance, and the
procedure outlined in sections
12-1-2,
12-1-5 and
12-1-6 of this chapter shall then be followed. If it does not comply the
petitioner shall be notified that no further action will be taken on the
petition until compliance is made.
12-1-4: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS; BY GOVERNING BODIES;
DETERMINATION:
   A.   The governing body of any Town may initiate proceedings to annex
territory by the following procedure:
      1.   Reasonable evidence shall be procured by the governing body
indicating that a specific area meets the conditions and limitations of section
12-1-2 of this chapter;
      2.   The governing body shall:
         a.   Cause to be prepared a legal description, a listing of the
current mailing address of each landowner as shown in the records of the County
Assessor and a map showing identifiable landmarks and boundaries of the area
considered for annexation and the area which will, as a result of the
annexation then be brought within one-half (1/2) mile of the new corporate
limits of the Town, if it has exercised the authority granted under Wyoming
Statutes section 15-3-202(b)(ii);
         b.   Determine if the area considered for annexation complies with
section
12-1-2 of this section;
         c.   Prepare a proposed annexation report as required by section
12-1-2C of this chapter;
         d.   Prepare for each landowner or public utility so requesting in
writing, the foreseeable changes to zoning, animal control and other health and
safety requirements requiring immediate compliance by the landowner or public
utility at the time of annexation. The request shall be made to the Clerk of
the annexing municipality not less than ten (10) days prior to the public
hearing required under section
12-1-5A of this chapter. The foreseeable changes shall be provided to the
landowner or public utility prior to the hearing.
   B.   If the area complies with section
12-1-2 of this chapter, the governing body shall adopt a resolution certifying
compliance, and the procedure outlined in sections
12-1-5 and
12-1-6 of this chapter shall then be followed. If the area does not comply, no
further action shall be taken on the proposed annexation.
12-1-5: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED; NOTICE THEREOF:
   A.   In any annexation proceeding the governing body shall establish a date,
time and place for a public hearing to determine if the proposed annexation
complies with section
12-1-2 of this chapter. The hearing shall be held not less than thirty (30)
days nor more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the petition has been
certified to be complete.
   B.   The Clerk shall give notice of the public hearing by publishing a
notice at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the territory
sought to be annexed. The first notice shall be given at least fifteen (15)
business days prior to the date of the public hearing. The notice shall contain
a location map which includes identifiable landmarks and boundaries of the area
sought to be annexed and the area which will, as a result of the annexation
then be brought within one-half (1/2) mile of the new corporate limits of the
Town, if it has exercised the authority granted under Wyoming Statutes section
15-3-202(b)(ii). The notice shall include a summary of the proposed annexation
report prepared pursuant to section
12-1-2C of this chapter. Upon written request to the Clerk of the annexing
municipality, the Clerk shall provide a legal description of the area and the
names of the persons owning property within the area.
12-1-6: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; ANNEXATION ORDINANCE; OBJECTIONS; EXCEPTION;
PROHIBITION:
   A.   If after the hearing the governing body finds that the conditions
required by section
12-1-2 of this chapter exist and that the required procedures have been met, it
shall by ordinance annex the territory. Upon completion of annexation
procedures, the Clerk of the annexing municipality shall file with the County
Clerk a map of the area to be annexed and a copy of the ordinance approved by
the governing body of the annexing municipality.
   B.   If more than fifty percent (50%) of the landowners, or if a landowner
or landowners owning more than fifty percent (50%) of the area to be annexed
file written objections with the Clerk of the annexing municipality within
twenty (20) business days after the hearing under section
12-1-5A of this chapter no further action under section
12-1-4 of this chapter may be taken on any area within the proposed annexation
within two (2) years.
   C.   If seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the perimeter of the area to
be annexed is contiguous to the corporate limits of the annexing Town, the
provisions of subsection B of this section do not apply.
   D.   No annexation under section
12-1-4 of this chapter shall create an area which is situated entirely within
the boundaries of the Town but is not annexed.
12-1-7: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; WHEN NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING NOT NECESSARY;
STATEMENT REQUIRED:
If the Town is the sole owner of any territory whether or not contiguous that
it desires to annex, the governing body, by ordinance, may annex the territory
to the Town without notice or public hearing as provided in section
12-1-5 of this chapter and without preparing the annexation report or providing
the estimates required by sections
12-1-2C and E and
12-1-4A2c and d of this chapter. All ordinances annexing territory without
notice and public hearing shall contain a statement that the territory is
solely owned by the petitioning Town.
12-1-8: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; EFFECTIVE DATES:
The annexation of any territory is effective upon publication of the ordinance,
unless another date is specified in the ordinance. The effective date of the
annexation ordinance shall not be less than twenty (20) business days after the
public hearing required by section
12-1-5A of this chapter. For purposes of real and personal property taxation,
the annexation is not effective until January 1 next following the effective
date of the ordinance. If an appeal is filed and perfected by a person other
than a utility, the effective date is January 1 next following the court’s
final decision of the matter. If an appeal of the franchise decision is filed
and perfected by a utility, the annexation is effective upon the publication of
the ordinance unless another date is specified in the ordinance, but the
appealing utility shall be permitted to continue its present service in the
annexed area until the court’s final decision of the matter.
12-1-9: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; APPEAL; DETERMINATION; TIME FOR REVIEW;
EXCLUSIVENESS OF APPEAL REMEDY:
   A.   If any landowner in the territory proposed to be annexed or any owner
of real property in the annexing Town, or utility is aggrieved by the acts of
the governing body, he may appeal to the District Court for a review of the
acts or findings thereof.
   B.   If the court determines that the action taken was capricious or
arbitrary, or if it appears from the evidence that the landowner’s right in his
property is being unwarrantedly invaded or that the governing body abused its
discretion, the court shall declare the annexing ordinance void. If the court
determines the action of the governing body was proper and valid, it shall
sustain the ordinance.
   C.   All proceedings to review the findings and the decisions of the
governing body or actions to determine the validity of the annexation ordinance
pursuant to the Uniform Declaratory Judgments Act shall be brought within sixty
(60) days of the effective date of the annexation ordinance, and if not brought
within that time are forever barred.
12-1-10: ANNEXING TERRITORIES; EXTENSION OF LAWS AND RIGHTS; EXTENSION OF
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE:
   A.   The territory and inhabitants of any annexed area are subject to all
the laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the Town to which they are
annexed and are entitled to all the rights, privileges and franchises or other
services afforded the inhabitants thereof. The services shall be provided in
accordance with the timetable provided pursuant to section
12-1-2C3 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no law,
ordinance, rule or regulation of a municipality annexing property under section
12-1-4 of this chapter shall restrict the continuous use of the property by a
current or subsequent owner of an interest in the property, if the use was
existing at any time within the year prior to the date of annexation and was
lawful at the time the property was annexed. For purposes of this subsection, a
use which has been discontinued for any one (1) year period after the date of
annexation shall not be considered continuous and shall not thereafter be
reestablished unless in conformance with current law, ordinance, rule or
regulation.
   B.   The governing body of the annexing municipality shall, within thirty
(30) days after the date of the annexation, give written notice of the
annexation to all public electric utilities presently providing service within
the annexed area and, except in the case of an annexing municipality which owns
or operates its own electric utility, any area adjacent to the annexed area.
Except in the case of an annexing municipality which owns or operates its own
electric utility, any of those public utilities required to be notified may,
within sixty (60) days after the date of annexation, petition the governing
body of the annexing Town for a franchise to serve additional portions within
the annexed area or the entire annexed area. Except in the case of a
municipality which owns or operates its own electric utility, any petitioning
utility which does not currently hold a certificate of public convenience and
necessity for the annexed area shall petition the Public Service Commission for
a certificate to include the annexed area, and if two (2) or more public
electric utilities have been granted or are seeking a certificate of public
convenience and necessity to serve the annexed area, the public service
commission shall determine, following a hearing, which utility or utilities
should be certificated in the public interest to provide service to the annexed
area. No recipient of a certificate of public convenience and necessity shall
serve any portion of the annexed area without the consent of the governing body
of the annexing Town and provided that the entire annexed area is served under
one (1) or more certificates of public convenience and necessity.
   C.   Except in the case of an annexing municipality which owns or operates
its own electric utility, the governing body of the annexing municipality shall
hold an appropriate public hearing and, upon determining that one (1) or more
petitioning public utilities can meet the terms and conditions of a franchise,
issue franchises to one (1) or more utilities to serve portions of or the
entire annexed area.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, nothing contained in this
section shall limit the right of a municipality which owns or operates its own
electric utility to extend its electric service into any area annexed by the
municipality, and nothing contained in this section shall subject any such
municipality to the jurisdiction of the public service commission.
12-1-11: INCORPORATION OF TERRITORY WITHIN POTENTIAL URBAN AREA:
All territory within one (1) mile of an incorporated Town, as it now exists or
may hereafter be established, is potentially an urban area. No territory within
a potential urban area may be incorporated as a Town unless the governing body
of the Town causing the potential urbanized area to exist, by resolution,
approves the proposed incorporation.
12-1-12: WHEN WRITTEN CONSENT OF LANDOWNERS REQUIRED FOR ANNEXATION; EXCEPTION:
No tract of land or any part thereof, whether consisting of one (1) parcel or
two (2) or more contiguous parcels owned by one (1) landowner or owned jointly
by two (2) or more landowners as cotenants, which comprises forty (40) acres or
more and which together with the buildings or improvements situated thereon has
an assessed valuation in excess of forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) as of
the current assessment for property tax purposes, may be annexed without the
written consent of the landowner or landowners, unless the tract of land is
situated entirely within the boundaries of the annexing Town.
12-1-13: SURVEY OF BOUNDARIES; WHEN AND HOW TO BE MADE; PRESUMPTION ONCE
RECORDED:
   A.   If the boundaries of any Town are uncertain or incapable of
ascertainment and upon the change in boundaries of any Town pursuant to any
annexation under this chapter, the governing body, by ordinance, shall provide
for a survey thereof. When the survey is made, the boundaries shall be marked
by substantial monuments, and the person making the survey shall report to the
governing body describing the boundaries by metes and bounds. The description
as nearly as possible shall refer, if upon surveyed lands, to the corners or
lines of the United States surveys. The person making the survey shall also
file with the Town Clerk the field notes of his survey. The Town Clerk shall
then file a copy of the report and a copy of the field notes certified by the
Mayor and Clerk with the County Clerk in which the Town is located.
   B.   Any survey made and recorded as provided in subsection A of this
section is presumptive of the boundaries of the Town, and any copy thereof
certified by the County Clerk shall be received in evidence in any court of
this State.
   C.   The Town Clerk shall file a copy of an official map or legal
description designating the geographical boundaries of the Town or the changes
to its geographical boundaries with the Department of Revenue, the County
Assessor and the County Clerk in the county or counties within which the Town
is located in accordance with the department’s rules adopted pursuant to
Wyoming Statutes section 39-11-102(c)(xxiv) regarding tax districts, with any
special district affected by the boundary change and as follows:
      1.   Within ten (10) days after the effective date of formation; and
      2.   Within thirty (30) days if a Town has changes to its geographical
boundaries by annexation or de-annexation.
12-1-14: SURVEY OF BOUNDARIES; OATH REQUIRED; FILING THEREOF:
   A.   Any person making the survey who is not an officer of the Town, before
entering upon the work, shall subscribe an oath to:
      1.   Faithfully, diligently and to the best of his ability make the
survey;
      2.   Make field notes and report accurately the results of the survey and
the description of the boundaries.
   B.   The oath shall be filed with the Town Clerk and a copy thereof shall be
attached to the certificate filed with the County Clerk.
12-1-15: ADDITIONS TO CITIES OR TOWNS BY SUBDIVIDING LANDOWNERS; PLAT
REQUIREMENTS; FILING AND EFFECT THEREOF; CONTROLLING LAYOUT OF STREETS:
   A.   The owner of any land within or contiguous to any Town may subdivide
the land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues and alleys and other grounds under
the name of .... addition to the Town of .... An accurate map or plat shall be
made designating the subdivided land and particularly describing the lots,
blocks, streets, avenues and alleys and other grounds of the addition. The lots
must be designated by numbers, and the streets, avenues and other grounds by
name or numbers.
   B.   The plat shall:
      1.   Be acknowledged before some officer authorized to acknowledge deeds;
      2.   Have appended a survey made by a land surveyor registered under the
laws of this state with a certificate that he has accurately surveyed the
addition, and that the parts thereof are accurately staked off and marked with
an appropriate metal monument including magnetic iron, inscribed at least with
the registration number of the land surveyor to provide source identification,
at all lot corners and survey control points of the addition.
   C.   When the map or plat is made out, acknowledged, certified and approved
by the governing body, it shall be filed and recorded in the office of the
County Clerk. When filed it is equivalent to a deed in fee simple to the Town
from the owner, of all streets, avenues, alleys, public squares, parks and
commons and of that portion of the land set apart for public and Town use, or
dedicated to charitable, religious or educational purposes. All additions thus
laid out are a part of the Town for all purposes, and the inhabitants of the
addition are entitled to all the rights and privileges and subject to all the
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the Town.
   D.   The governing body, by ordinance, may compel the owner of any addition
to lay out streets, avenues and alleys to correspond in width and direction and
be continuations of the streets, ways and alleys in the Town or other additions
thereto. No addition is valid unless the terms and conditions of the ordinance
are complied with and the plat submitted and approved by the governing body.
12-1-16: LANDOWNER PETITION TO EXCLUDE TRACT FROM TOWN; DISPOSITION THEREOF;
EXCLUSION OF LAND FOR HIGHWAY PURPOSES:
The governing body may exclude from any Town land sufficient for the
construction of state highways. Notice of the intended action and the time and
place of public hearing for objections shall be published once each week for
four (4) consecutive weeks prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Town. No action may be taken by the governing body to
exclude land for highway purposes over the objection of any owner of property
to be excluded.
12-1-17: ANNEXING CONTIGUOUS CITIES OR TOWNS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   When any Town desires to be annexed to another contiguous Town, their
governing bodies shall meet to determine the terms and conditions on which the
proposed annexation might be made. If the governing body of each Town approves
of the terms and conditions proposed, the governing body of the Town to be
annexed shall circulate a written petition requesting annexation subject to the
terms and conditions set forth in section
12-1-3 of this chapter among the Town’s qualified registered electors. Once the
petition is signed by at least a majority of the qualified registered electors
residing in the Town, as determined by the records of the County Clerk, it
shall be filed with the Clerk of the annexing Town.
   B.   No signature on the petition is valid if it is dated more than one
hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date of filing the petition for
annexation with the Clerk. No person signing a petition for annexation may
withdraw his signature from the petition after it has been filed with the
Clerk.
   C.   The Clerk shall refer the petition to the governing body which shall
then, without undue delay, take appropriate steps to comply with sections
12-1-2, 12-1-4 and 12-1-5 of this chapter and determine if the petition is in
compliance with subsection A of this section.
   D.   If the petition is not in minimum compliance, the governing body of the
Town desiring to be annexed shall be notified that no further action will be
taken on the petition until compliance is made.
   E.   As an alternative to the circulation of the petition as provided by
subsection A of this section, the Town to be annexed may hold a special
election on the question in accordance with Wyoming Statutes sections 22-23-801
through 22-23-809.
12-1-18: ANNEXING CONTIGUOUS CITIES OR TOWNS; ANNEXATION ORDINANCE; FILING:
   A.   If after the hearing, the governing body of the annexing Town finds
that the conditions and procedures required by sections
12-1-2,
12-1-4 and
12-1-5 of this chapter have been met and the terms and conditions in the
written petition exist, it may by ordinance annex the Town.
   B.   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance including a legal
description of the area and the map prepared pursuant to section
12-1-2C1 of this chapter and in accordance with Wyoming Statutes sections 33-
29-801 shall be filed with the County Clerk of the county in which the action
has taken place.
12-1-19: ANNEXING CONTIGUOUS CITIES OR TOWNS; EFFECTIVE DATES; APPEALS:
   A.   The annexation of any Town is effective upon the publication date of
the annexing Town’s annexation ordinance, unless a different date is specified
in the ordinance. Thereafter, the Town to which the annexation is made shall
pass ordinances, not inconsistent with law, as will carry into effect the terms
and conditions of the annexation. For purposes of taxation, the annexation does
not become effective until January 1 next following the effective date of the
ordinance, unless an appeal is filed and perfected, in which case the effective
date is January 1 next following the court’s final decision.
   B.   Appeals to the district court and limitations thereon are governed by
section
12-1-9 of this chapter except that any registered and qualified elector as of
the date of adoption of the ordinance shall also be able to appeal to the
District Court.
12-1-20: ANNEXING CONTIGUOUS CITIES OR TOWNS; HOW GOVERNED; EXTENSION OF LAWS,
RIGHTS AND UTILITIES; DISSOLUTION OF ANNEXED TOWN; DISPOSITION OF ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES:
   A.   After the effective date of annexation, the Town annexed shall be
governed as part of the Town to which it is annexed. The territory and
inhabitants of the Town annexed are subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations of the Town to which annexed and are entitled to all the
rights, privileges and franchise services afforded the inhabitants thereof
including fire protection, sanitary facilities and utility service. If the
inhabitants of the annexing Town are furnished any utility service by the
annexing Town or under franchise, the annexed area may receive the same
service.
   B.   The annexed Town’s municipal corporate assets including money, real and
personal property, and rights, titles and interests of any nature, upon the
effective date of annexation, without further conveyance, are the assets of the
annexing Town. The annexed Town, without further action, shall be dissolved and
the annexation ordinance shall so provide. The annexing Town shall make
provision for meeting all liabilities of the annexed Town through assumption or
by other lawful means. No such assumption or other action taken under this act
shall materially impair existing obligations of contract of either the annexing
or annexed Town. Liabilities to be assumed by the annexing Town shall include
all revenue bonds and other special obligations which by their terms are not
payable from ad valorem taxes. The revenue bonds and special obligations shall
not become general obligations of the annexing Town.
   C.   The annexing Town in the annexation ordinance shall allocate equitably
the debts of the annexed and annexing Town. The equitable allocation shall be
according to benefits received by the annexed and annexing Town from additional
assets being brought into the combined Town.
   D.   Any such bonded indebtedness may be refunded by the annexing Town under
the laws of Wyoming existing at the time of this refunding.
12-1-21: MUNICIPAL DE-ANNEXATION:
   A.   Any landowner within a Town may petition the governing body of the Town
to have his land or a portion of it de-annexed and the boundaries of the Town
redrawn so their land is outside the Town boundaries. The landowner shall file
the petition with the Clerk of the affected Town and shall also provide a copy
of the petition to the County Commissioners of the affected county. The County
Commissioners shall, within sixty (60) days, prepare a report on the impact of
the de-annexation. The affected Town may not take any action on the petition
for de-annexation until after the sixty (60) day period. The Commissioners may
establish rules and regulations for the area to be de-annexed which are
consistent with county land use plans and zoning ordinances.
   B.   The petitioner shall be responsible for publishing a public notice of
the petition in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected municipality
no more than ten (10) days after filing the petition with the Town Clerk. The
notice shall also include a map showing identifiable landmarks and boundaries.
   C.   The governing body of the Town may by ordinance provide for this de-
annexation and redrawing of boundaries provided that:
      1.   The owners of all the land to be de-annexed either sign the petition
for de-annexation or consent to the de-annexation within one hundred twenty
(120) days after the final passage of the de-annexation ordinance and before
its effective date. The passage of the ordinance shall serve as the consent of
the Town for any land owned by the Town within the area to be de-annexed;
      2.   The ordinance is adopted within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the receipt of the de-annexation petition and within one hundred eighty (180)
days after the landowner’s signature of the petition, unless a further consent
of all the landowners is obtained before the effective date of the ordinance;
and
      3.   If the de-annexation causes land within the Town boundaries to no
longer be contiguous with the rest of the Town, the de-annexation ordinance may
be adopted only with the consent of all the owners of the land to be isolated
by the de-annexation.
   D.   If the Town owns any rights-of-way, easements, streets or other
property or improvements within the area to be de-annexed it may:
      1.   Vacate or abandon them;
      2.   Transfer them to the County government with the consent of the
County Commissioners;
      3.   Agree to transfer them to another Town upon completion of the
annexation of all or part of the de-annexed land to that other Town;
      4.   Retain ownership of them.
   E.   No de-annexation shall create an area which is situated entirely within
the municipality but is not a part of the municipality.
   F.   The landowner petitioning to have land de-annexed and his successors
and assigns shall remain liable for any assessments incurred or levied while
the land was within the Town boundaries and for all mill levies necessary to
repay any indebtedness that was outstanding at any time the property was within
the Town boundaries. Neither the de-annexation nor subsequent annexation to or
incorporation as another Town shall increase or decrease these liabilities.
12-1-22: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The granting of an exception to the area wide waste treatment management plan
by any Town to any person may not be conditioned upon any agreement by that
person to annexation under this chapter.
12-1-23: MUNICIPAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Following a public hearing which may be held jointly between the
affected cities or Towns, any Town may mutually agree with one (1) or more
cities or towns defining the future geographical growth and expansion areas for
each respective Town. Any agreement under this section shall be reduced to
writing and approved by the governing body of each Town which is a party to the
agreement. No agreement under this section shall be amended, terminated or
voided by any party thereto after its execution except by the mutual written
agreement of the parties to the agreement.
   B.   Any agreement entered into by and between any cities or towns under
this section shall provide that the parties to the agreement shall not annex
real property located in any other party’s defined growth and expansion area
unless the nonannexing Town’s governing body consents, in writing, to any such
annexation.
   C.   Any agreement entered into by and between any cities or towns defining
their respective future geographical growth and expansion areas prior to July
1, 2007 is hereby ratified and approved and may only be amended, terminated or
voided by the mutual written agreement of the governing bodies of the parties
thereto.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall supercede other requirements for
annexation under this chapter.
 
