VILLAGE OF TURTLE LAKE, WISCONSIN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains local legislation current through Ord. 2023-01, passed 7-17-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
INTRODUCTION
PREFACE
   Democracy is a government of laws. Good democracy requires not only good
laws, but laws which are readily available in written form to all who are
subject to them, to the public officials and police officers who must
administer them, and to the judges and attorneys who must interpret and apply
them. It is for this reason that the Village Board of the Village of Turtle
Lake has adopted this code of ordinances. This code represents the contribution
of the Village Board to the democratic and efficient administration of the
government and affairs of the Village of Turtle Lake.
VILLAGE OFFICERS
VILLAGE OFFICERS
President                Andy Koenig
Trustees                 Laurie Tarman
                        Ruth Morton
                        Pat McCreedy
                        Chad Glaubitz
                        JoAnna Clary
                        Jim Pabst
Village Attorney         Chris Gierhart
Director of Public Works Cory Davis
Chief of Police          Derek Posey
 
FOREWORD
   We are pleased to provide this new Code of Ordinances for the Village of
Turtle Lake, Wisconsin. This codification provides a complete revision and
codification of all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the
village. All amended ordinances are brought up to date. The code also includes
certain new ordinances that were prepared to fill gaps not covered by existing
ordinances.
   The code also includes several features that will facilitate its use. The
various chapters and articles follow one another in a natural, logical order.
The table of contents, with a complete outline of this order, will often
provide sufficient reference points for the reader. In addition, the reader may
consult the alphabetical index at the end of the volume. At the beginning of
each chapter there is a section-by-section analysis of the articles within the
chapter.
   We gratefully acknowledge the cooperation and assistance rendered by the
village officials in the preparation of this code.
Community Code Service
3900 Vinburn Road
DeForest, WI 53532
(608) 846-5897
OPEN MEETING LAW GUIDE
General Requirements
1.   Wisconsin’s Open Meeting Law provides that all meetings of governmental
bodies shall be open to all citizens at all times. (Wis. Stats. § 19.81(3))
2.   Meetings of local governing bodies or their subunits must be held in
places reasonably accessible to the public.
3.   Meetings are open to all members of the public unless specifically
provided otherwise by law.
4.   When members of a governmental body gather in sufficient numbers to
compose a quorum, that meeting is presumed to be convened for the purpose of
conducting official business. Such a meeting is in violation of the Open
Meeting Law if proper notice was not given and the meeting is not open to the
public. (Wis. Stats. § 19.82(2))
5.   The Open Meeting Law also applies when members of a governing body, or
committee thereof, engage in business of that body and when the number of
members present is potentially sufficient to determine the governing body’s
course of action regarding the proposal discussed (State vs. Showers. No. 85-
471 (June 15, 1987)).
Public Notice
1.   WHO MUST RECEIVE NOTICE. For any meeting, the presiding officer, or his or
her designee, shall give notice to the official newspaper and to any other
members of the news media who have filed a written request to receive such
notices, or if neither exists, in a manner likely to give notice to the public.
Notice must also be given as required by any other state statutes.
2.   CONSTRUCTION OF NOTICE. The notice for the meeting shall include:
   a.   The time, date, and place of the meeting; and
   b.   The subject matter of the meeting, including subject matter to be
considered in closed session.
   The governmental body may discuss and, if urgent, act upon matters which
were not specifically referred to in the agenda where the agenda contains a
general item, such as “miscellaneous business.” Where the presiding officer has
specific knowledge that matters may come before the body, they should be
included on the agenda.
3.   TIME FOR NOTICE. Notice must be given at least 24 hours prior to the
commencement of the meeting unless for good cause such notice is impossible or
impractical, in which shorter notice may be given. In no case may notice be
provided less than two hours in advance of the meeting. (Wis. Stats. § 19.84
(3))
4.   COMMITTEES AND SUBUNITS EXEMPTION TO NOTICE REQUIREMENT. A legally
constituted subunit of a parent government body may conduct a meeting during
the recess of the governing body’s meeting or immediately after the lawful
meeting to act or deliberate upon a matter which was the subject of that
meeting. For this exemption to apply, the presiding officer must publicly
announce the time, place and subject matter of the subunit’s meeting in advance
at the meeting of the governing body.
Procedure for Closed Sessions
1.   Required notice must be given if the presiding officer or his or her
designee knows that a closed session is being contemplated. Notice is required
regardless of whether a majority of members will or will not support going into
closed session at the meeting. (Wis. Stats. § 19.84(2))
2.   After first meeting in open session, with proper notice, a motion made and
recorded, supported by majority vote, is required to close, with the vote of
each member recorded in the minutes. (Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1))
3.   If the motion to go into closed session is carried, the presiding officer
shall announce to those present at the meeting (to be recorded in the minutes)
the nature of the business to be considered in the closed session and the
specific exemption(s) relied upon in Wis. Stats. § 19.85, under which the
closed session is permitted.
4.   Only matters contained in the presiding officer’s announcement of the
closed session may be considered during the closed session.
5.   An open session, with adequate notice, must precede a closed session, even
where it was decided at a prior open session to go into a closed session at a
subsequent meeting.
6.   A governmental body may vote to go into closed session at a properly
convened open session, for a permitted purpose, where specific notice of intent
to consider going into closed session was not included on the agenda at the
time notice of the open session was given. However, such procedure requires
that the presiding officer, or his or her designee, did not contemplate or have
knowledge that any of the other members contemplated a closed session at the
time notice of the agenda was given.
Specific Exemptions Allowing Closed Sessions
1.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(a), creates an exemption for governmental bodies
deliberating after quasi-judicial trials or hearings. However, boards of review
cannot rely on this exemption, for Wis. Stats. § 70.47(2m), requires all board
of review meetings to be held in open session.
2.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(b), is a limited exception to the Open Meeting Law
allowing the use of a closed session when a governmental body is considering
the demotion, dismissal, licensing, discipline, or tenure of a public employee
or a person licensed by a board or commission. This exception permits
preliminary discussion and investigation without the necessity of providing
actual notice to the individual involved. However, before any evidentiary
hearing can be conducted or formal action taken, notice must be given to the
person involved so that he or she can exercise his or her right to request an
open session for those purposes.
3.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(c), sanctions the use of closed sessions where
governmental bodies are considering employment, promotion, compensation or
performance evaluation of any public employee. Governmental bodies should
exercise caution when considering performance to avoid discussing matters that
are covered by Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(b).
4.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(d), permits the use of closed sessions when
applications for parole or probation are being considered, or when crime
detection or prevention strategy is to be discussed.
5.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(e), allows closed sessions for the purpose of
deliberating or negotiating the purchase of public properties, the investing of
public funds, or the conducting of other specified public business, as long as
competitive or bargaining reasons require a closed session. Under this
exception, a governmental body could meet in closed session for the purpose of
forming negotiation strategies, although the body must give notice that an open
session will be held for the purpose of taking a vote to convene in closed
session for the purpose of discussing labor negotiation strategies.
6.   Discussions by governmental bodies considering the financial, medical,
social, or personal histories or disciplinary data of specific persons which,
if conducted in public, would have a “substantial adverse effect upon the
reputation of any person referred to” may be held in closed session under Wis.
Stats. § 19.85(1)(f). However, this exemption is unavailable where Wis. Stats.
§ 19.85(1)(b), is applicable.
7.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(g), allows a governmental body to confer with its
legal counsel in closed session for the purpose of obtaining oral or written
advice concerning strategy to be adopted by the body with respect to present
and prospective litigation directly involving the governmental body.
8.   Closed sessions may be utilized by governmental bodies to consider
requests for confidential written advice from ethics boards under Wis. Stats. §
19.85(1)(h).
Limitations on Closed Sessions
1.   Wis. Stats. § 19.85(2), makes it impermissible for a governmental body to
reconvene in open session within 12 hours after a closed session, unless public
notice of the subsequent open session was given at the same time and in the
same manner as was required for the original open session.
2.   Final ratification or approval of a collective bargaining agreement is
required to be in open session under Wis. Stats. § 19.85(3). However, a
governmental body can vote to preliminarily approve bargaining proposals in
closed session, in order to reach a consensus, as long as final ratification
occurs in open session.
Ballots, Votes, and Records
1.   Unless provided elsewhere by statute, no secret ballot may be utilized by
a governmental body to determine any election or decision, except the election
of the officers of such body. This narrow exception does not permit use of
secret ballots to elect members of committees, officers of the governmental
units, such as department heads, or fill vacancies on the body itself.
2.   Any member may require the ascertainment and recording of each vote.
3.   Records of motions and roll-call votes must be preserved and open for
public inspection.
Use of Equipment in Meetings
1.   A governmental unit must make a reasonable effort to accommodate the
media’s equipment.
2.   Any person may record, film, or photograph a meeting in open session,
provided that the use of this equipment does not interfere with the conduct of
the meeting(s).
3.   A member of a governmental body does not have the right to tape record a
closed session of the board.
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
1.   USE AND CONSTRUCTION
   
2.   USE OF CITATION
CHAPTER 1: USE AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
1-1-1   Title of code; citation
   
1-1-2   Principles of construction
   
1-1-3   Conflict of provisions
   
1-1-4   Separability of provisions
   
1-1-5   Effective date of ordinances
   
1-1-6   General penalty
   
1-1-7   Maintaining copies of documents incorporated by reference
   
Appendix A:   Municipal ordinance numbers for citations and bond schedule
§ 1-1-1 TITLE OF CODE; CITATION.
   These collected ordinances shall be known and referred to as the “Code of
Ordinances, Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin.” References to the “Code of
Ordinances, Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin,” shall be cited as follows
(sample): “Section 2-1-1, Code of Ordinances, Village of Turtle Lake,
Wisconsin.”
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 1-1-2 PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules or meanings shall be applied in the construction and
interpretation of ordinances codified in this code of ordinances unless such
application would be clearly inconsistent with the plain meaning or intent of
the ordinances.
   (a)   Acts by agents. When an ordinance requires an act be done by a person
which may be legally performed by an authorized agent of that principal person,
the requirement shall be construed to include all acts performed by such
agents.
   (b)   Code and code of ordinances. The words CODES, CODE OF ORDINANCES, and
MUNICIPAL CODE, when used in any section of this code, shall refer to this code
of ordinances of the village, unless the context of the section clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (c)   Computation of time. In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed by these ordinances, the day of the act or event from which the period
of time begins to run shall not be included, but the last day of the period
shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday. If
the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, Saturdays,
Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation. As used in
this section, LEGAL HOLIDAY means any statewide legal holiday specified by
state law.
   (d)   Fine. The term FINE shall be the equivalent of the word FORFEITURE,
and vice versa.
   (e)   Gender. Use has been made of masculine pronouns in these ordinances
solely for the sake of brevity. Unless specifically stated to the contrary,
words in these ordinances referring to the masculine gender shall also be
construed to apply to females, and vice versa.
   (f)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
their plain meaning in common usage. However, words or phrases with a technical
or special meaning shall be understood and construed according to that
technical or special meaning if such is the intent of the ordinances.
   (g)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to
three or more village officers or employees shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons.
   (h)   Officers. The term OFFICERS shall refer solely to local offices
created by state statute.
   (i)   Officials. The term OFFICIALS shall mean all village officers and
employees.
   (j)   Person. The word PERSON shall mean any of the following entities:
natural persons, corporations, partnerships, associations, bodies politic, or
any other entity of any kind which is capable of being sued.
   (k)   Repeal. When any ordinance having the effect of repealing a prior
ordinance is itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive the
prior ordinance or any part thereof, unless expressly so provided.
   (l)   Singular and plural. Every word in these ordinances referring to the
singular number only shall also be construed to apply to several persons or
things, and every word in these ordinances referring to a plural number shall
also be construed to apply to one person or thing.
   (m)   Tense. The use of any verb in the present tense shall not preclude the
interpretation of the verb in the future tense where appropriate.
   (n)   Village. The term VILLAGE shall mean the Village of Turtle Lake,
Barron and Polk Counties, Wisconsin.
   (o)   Wisconsin Administrative Code. The term WISCONSIN ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
and its abbreviation as “Wis. Adm. Code” shall mean the Wisconsin
Administrative Code as of the adoption of this code, as amended or renumbered
from time to time.
   (p)   Wisconsin Statutes. The term WISCONSIN STATUTES and its abbreviation
as “Wis. Stats.” shall mean, in these ordinances, the Wisconsin Statutes for
the year 2021-2022, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 1-1-3 CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS.
   (a)   If the provisions of different chapters conflict with each other, the
provisions of each individual chapter shall control all issues arising out of
the events and persons intended to be governed by that chapter.
   (b)   If the provisions of different sections of the same chapter conflict
with each other, the provision which is more specific in its application to the
events or persons raising the conflict shall control over the more general
provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 1-1-4 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this code of ordinances is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by reason of any decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of any other
provisions of these ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 1-1-5 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   Code. The code of ordinances of the village shall take effect as
provided by state law.
   (b)   Subsequent ordinances. All ordinances passed by the Village Board
subsequent to the adoption of the code of ordinances, except when otherwise
specifically provided, shall take effect from and after their publication.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Code of ordinances, see Wis. Stats. § 66.0103
§ 1-1-6 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty. Except where a penalty is provided elsewhere in this
code, any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this code shall,
upon conviction of such violation, be subject to a penalty, which shall be as
follows.
      (1)   First offense penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $25 nor more
than $1,000,together with the costs of prosecution and, in default of payment
of such forfeiture and costs of prosecution, shall be imprisoned in the county
jail until such forfeiture and costs are paid, but not exceeding 90 days.
      (2)   Second offense penalty. Any person found guilty of violating any
ordinance or part of an ordinance of this code who shall previously have been
convicted of a violation of the same ordinance within one year shall, upon
conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $50 nor more than $1,000 for each
such offense, together with costs of prosecution and, in default of payment of
such forfeiture and costs, shall be imprisoned in the county jail until such
forfeiture and costs of prosecution are paid, but not exceeding six months.
   (b)   Continued violations. Each violation and each day a violation
continues or occurs shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing in this code
shall preclude the village from maintaining any appropriate action to prevent
or remove a violation of any provision of this code.
   (c)   Other remedies. The village shall have any and all other remedies
afforded by the state statutes in addition to the forfeitures and costs of
prosecution above.
   (d)   Bond schedule. The bond amount to be placed on any citation for any
offense herein, unless noted otherwise, is as follows:
      (1)   The schedule shown on the attached listing; and
      (2)   For the offenses which are not listed, a mandatory appearance will
be required in municipal court.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-6)
§ 1-1-7 MAINTAINING COPIES OF DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   Whenever any standard code, rule, regulation, statute, or other
written or printed matter is adopted by reference, it shall be deemed
incorporated in this code as if fully set forth herein, and the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
maintain in his or her office a copy of any such material as adopted and as
amended from time to time.
   (b)   Materials on file at the Village Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest
elected official’s, as appropriate, office shall be considered public records
open to reasonable examination by any person during the office hours of the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
subject to such restrictions on examination as the Clerk imposes for the
preservation of the material.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-7)
APPENDIX A: MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE NUMBERS FOR CITATIONS AND BOND SCHEDULE.
Code Section Violation Fine
Code Section Violation                                             Fine
7-1-1        Dog and cat licenses required                         $50
             Restrictions on keeping of dogs and cats               
7-1-6           Animals running at large                        $50
                Restrictions                                    $50
                Vicious dogs and cats                           $100
7-1-9        Animal feces                                          $50
7-1-10       Injury to property by animals                         $50
7-1-11      Barking dogs or crying cats                           $50
7-1-16       Neglected or abandoned animals                        $100
10-1-1       State traffic laws                                    State
10-1-28      Parking of trucks and trailers on village streets     $50
10-1-30      Operating without a valid driver’s license           
             Disturbance of the peace with a motor vehicle,
             unnecessary noise                                      
10-1-40         Disorderly conduct                              $200
                Unnecessary acceleration, display of power       
                Unnecessary noise
                Unnecessary smoke
10-1-44      Driving over curbing or safety islands                $50
10-2-1       Bicycles and play vehicles                            State
10-3-1       State snowmobile and all-terrain vehicles             State
10-5-1       Abandoned vehicles                                    $250
11-1-1       Offenses against state laws subject to forfeiture     State
11-2-1       Regulation of firearms, explosives, and other         State
             missiles
11-2-2       Carrying concealed weapons; certain weapons           State
             prohibited
11-2-3       Obstructing streets and sidewalks                     $50
             Loitering prohibited
                Loitering or prowling                            
11-2-4          Permitting loitering of underage person         $250
                Private property                                -
                Soliciting; public place, prostitute, panderer  $250
                Underage person in bar
11-2-6       Disorderly conduct                                    $250
11-2-7       Unauthorized presence on school property              $250
11-3-1       Littering prohibited                                  $250
11-3-6       Retail theft                                          $500 or less
11-3-7       Trespass to a dwelling or land                        $200
                In public places                                 
11-4-2       Possession of alcoholic beverages on school grounds   $87
11-5-2       Possession of controlled substances by juveniles      State
                Paraphernalia (by minor)                        State
             Truancy                                                
11-5-5          Contributing to truancy                         $100
                Parent or guardian liability                     
11-5-6       Purchase or possession of tobacco products (under 18) State
11-6-3       Public nuisances affecting health                     $250
11-6-4       Public nuisances offending morals and decency         $100
11-6-5       Public nuisances affecting peace and safety           $100
Notes to Table:
*=This section applies to parking lots or ramps in the village that are held
out for use by the general public. This section is to be used when state law
does not apply.
 
(Prior Code, Title 1, Chapter 1, Appendix A)
CHAPTER 2: USE OF CITATION
Section
   
1-2-1   Authorization for use of citation
   
1-2-2   Officials authorized to issue citation
   
1-2-3   Form of citation
   
1-2-4   Schedule of cash deposits
   
1-2-5   Receipt of cash deposit
   
1-2-6   Procedure
   
1-2-7   Nonexclusivity of chapter
§ 1-2-1 AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF CITATION.
   The village hereby elects to use the citation method of enforcement of
ordinances. All village officers and other village personnel charged with
responsibility of enforcing the provisions of this code of ordinances are
hereby authorized pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0113(1)(a) to issue citations
for violations of this code of ordinances, including ordinances for which a
statutory counterpart exists.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 1-2-2 OFFICIALS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE CITATION.
   Citations authorized in §
1-2-1 above may be issued by law enforcement officers of the village and by the
following designated village officials with respect to sections of the code
which are directly related to the official’s area of responsibility. The
officials granted authority to issue citations under this section may delegate
the authority to other village employees within the designated official’s
department with the approval of the Village Board:
   (a)   Building Inspector;
   (b)   Fire Inspector; and
   (c)   Weed Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 1-2-3 FORM OF CITATION.
   The form of the citation to be issued by village police officers or other
designated village officials is incorporated herein by reference, and shall
provide for the following information.
   (a)   The name, address, date of birth, and physical description of the
alleged violator.
   (b)   The factual allegations describing the alleged violation.
   (c)   The date and place of the offense.
   (d)   The section of the ordinance violated.
   (e)   A designation of the offense in such manner as can be readily
understood by a person making a reasonable effort to do so.
   (f)   The time at which the alleged violator may appear in court.
   (g)   A statement which, in essence, informs the alleged violator:
      (1)   The alleged violator may make a cash deposit of a specified amount
to be mailed to a specified official within a specified time;
      (2)   If the alleged violator makes such a deposit, he or she need not
appear in court unless subsequently summoned;
      (3)   If the alleged violator makes a cash deposit and does not appear in
court, he or she will be deemed to have tendered a plea of no contest and
submitted to a forfeiture and a penalty assessment imposed by Wis. Stats. §
165.87, and court costs as imposed by Wis. Stats. § 800.10, not to exceed the
amount of the deposit, or will be summoned into court to answer the complaint
if the court does not accept the plea of no contest; and
      (4)   If the alleged violator does not make a cash deposit and does not
appear in court at the time specified, an action may be commenced against the
alleged violator to collect the forfeiture and the penalty assessment imposed
by Wis. Stats. § 165.87.
   (h)   A direction that if the alleged violator elects to make a cash
deposit, the alleged violator shall sign an appropriate statement which
accompanies the citation to indicate that he or she read the statement required
under subsection (g) above, and shall send the signed statement with the cash
deposit.
   (i)   Such other information as may be deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 1-2-4 SCHEDULE OF CASH DEPOSITS.
   The schedule of cash deposits for the various ordinances for which a
citation may be issued are as established on the deposit schedule adopted by
the Village Board, a copy of which is on file with the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. In addition to the deposit
amount listed, the deposit must include a penalty assessment imposed by Wis.
Stats. § 165.87, and court costs as imposed by Wis. Stats. § 800.10.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 1-2-5 RECEIPT OF CASH DEPOSIT.
   Deposits shall be made in cash, money order, personal checks, or certified
check to the Clerk of Municipal Court. Receipts shall be given for all deposits
received.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 1-2-6 PROCEDURE.
   Wis. Stats. § 66.0113(3) relating to the violator’s options and procedure on
default, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 1-2-7 NONEXCLUSIVITY OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   Adoption of this chapter does not preclude the Village Board from
adopting any other ordinance, providing for the enforcement of any other law or
ordinance relating to the same or other matters.
   (b)   The issuance of a citation hereunder shall not preclude the village or
any authorized officer from proceeding under any other ordinance or law, or by
any other enforcement method to enforce any ordinance, regulation, or order.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
TITLE 2: GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
1.   VILLAGE GOVERNMENT AND ELECTIONS
   
2.   VILLAGE BOARD
   
3.   MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND ELECTIONS
   
4.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
   
5.   ETHICS CODE AND EMPLOYMENT
CHAPTER 1: VILLAGE GOVERNMENT AND ELECTIONS
Section
   
2-1-1   Village government
   
2-1-2   Election poll hours
   
2-1-3   Official newspaper
   
2-1-4   Election officials
§ 2-1-1 VILLAGE GOVERNMENT.
   The village is a body corporate and politic with the powers of a
municipality at common law and governed by the provisions of Wis. Stats.
Chapters 61 and 66, laws amending those chapters, other acts of the legislature
and the Constitution of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Const., Art. XI, § 3
§ 2-1-2 ELECTION POLL HOURS.
   The voting polls in the village shall be opened from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
for all elections.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 2-1-3 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The official village newspaper shall be the Turtle Lake Times to be used for
the publication of legal and/or official notices and documents when publication
is used instead of posting as allowed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 2-1-4 ELECTION OFFICIALS.
   (a)   Number.
      (1)   Pursuant to the state statutes, there is hereby established a set
of election officials to conduct all elections in the village, which shall
consist of three election inspectors. However, the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall have the authority to
increase the number of election officials, not to exceed seven. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
determine in advance of each election whether the number of election officials
for such election should be increased from the number prescribed by this
section, and if such an increase is so determined, the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall redistribute duties
among the officials.
      (2)   The number of poll workers and election officials is to be
determined prior to each election by the Village Clerk and Chief Election
Inspector for the village to allow for a temporary change in the number of poll
workers and election officials based upon practical necessity.
   (b)   Appointments.
      (1)   Appointments shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Wis. Stats. § 7.30(4).
      (2)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 6.55(6), the Board of Trustees for the
village does hereby provide that any of the registration duties of inspectors
under Wis. Stats. § 6.55(2) shall be carried out in the village by special
registration deputies appointed by the Village Clerk at any polling place or
other registration location at such time as deemed necessary by the Village
Clerk to carry out the process of registration, as provided in Wis. Stats. §
6.55(2). Such deputies shall be specially appointed by the Village Clerk for
one election only to conduct elector registration.
   (c)   Duties. The election officials shall carry out the duties specifically
assigned to them by the election laws of the state, and in particular, those
contained within the provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapter 7.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Res. 06-03, passed 4-17-2006; Res. 07-01, passed 2-19-
2007)
CHAPTER 2: VILLAGE BOARD
Section
   
2-2-1   Village Board
   
2-2-2   Trustees
   
2-2-3   Village President
   
2-2-4   Standing committees
   
2-2-5   General powers of the Village Board
   
2-2-6   Cooperation with other municipalities
   
2-2-7   Internal powers of the Board
   
2-2-8   Salaries
   
2-2-9   Meetings
   
2-2-10   Special meetings
   
2-2-11   Open meetings
   
2-2-12   Quorum
   
2-2-13   Presiding officers
   
2-2-14   Meeting agendas; order of business
   
2-2-15   Introduction of business, resolutions, and ordinances; disposition of
communications
   
2-2-16   Publication and effect of ordinances
   
2-2-17   Conduct of deliberations
   
2-2-18   Reconsideration of questions
   
2-2-19   Disturbances and disorderly conduct
   
2-2-20   Amendment of rules
   
2-2-21   Suspension of rules
§ 2-2-1 VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Trustees of the village shall constitute the Village Board. The Village
Board shall be vested with all the powers of the village not specifically given
some other officer, as well as those powers set forth elsewhere throughout this
code.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.32 and 61.34
§ 2-2-2 TRUSTEES.
   (a)   Election, term, number. The village shall have six Trustees in
addition to the President, who is a Trustee by virtue of his or her office as
President. The six Trustees shall constitute the Village Board. Three Trustees
shall be elected at each annual spring election for a term of two years,
commencing on the third Tuesday of April in the year of their election.
   (b)   Appointment as President. A Village Trustee shall be eligible for
appointment as Village President to fill an unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.20 and 61.325
§ 2-2-3 VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   (a)   Election. The Village President shall be elected at the annual spring
election in odd-numbered years for a term of two years, commencing on the third
Tuesday of April in the year of his or her election.
   (b)   Duties. The Village President shall by virtue of his or her office be
a Trustee and preside at all meetings of the Board, have a vote as Trustee, and
sign all ordinances, rules, bylaws, regulations, and commissions adopted or
authorized by the Board, and all orders drawn on the treasury. He or she shall
maintain peace and good order, see that the village ordinances are faithfully
obeyed, and in case of disturbance, riot, or other apparent necessity appoint
as many special marshals as he or she shall deem necessary, who, for the time
being, shall possess all the powers and rights of constables.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
Statutory reference
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.24
§ 2-2-4 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (a)   Committee appointments. Standing committees of the village are
appointed by the Village President, subject to confirmation by the Village
Board. The committees listed in subsection (b) below shall consist of not less
than three members. The appointments to each committee shall be made at the
annual organizational meeting of the Village Board. Standing committees shall
review such matters as may be referred to them by the Village Board, and shall
submit recommendations for Board action.
   (b)   Committees established. The following standing committees are
established.
      (1)   Streets Committee (sidewalks, lights, sewer, and water).
      (2)   Business Development Committee (commercial development and tax
incremental financing).
      (3)   Finance Committee (finance, licenses, and insurance).
      (4)   Health and Welfare Committee.
      (5)   Planning and Housing Committee (zoning, land divisions, and
easements).
      (6)   Parks and Recreation Committee (parks, public property, recreation,
and safety).
      (7)   Fire Board.
   (c)   President to designate Chairpersons; committees-of-the-whole; special
committees.
      (1)   The Village President shall designate the Chairperson of standing
committees. All committee appointments, except designation of the Chairperson,
shall be subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the Board.
      (2)   All Trustees shall serve on at least one standing committee. The
Village President shall be an ex officio member of each standing committee, or
may be appointed to serve as a member of a specific committee.
      (3)   The Village President may declare the entire Board a committee of
the whole for informal discussion at any meeting or for any other purpose, and
shall ex officio be the Chairperson of the same.
      (4)   The Village President may, from time to time, appoint such special
committee or committees as he or she deems advisable, or as provided for by
motion or resolution by the board stating the number of members and object
thereof to perform such duties as may be assigned to them. All special
committees shall cease to exist after the April Board meeting unless
reappointed by the Village President or extended by the Village Board.
   (d)   Committee reports.
      (1)   All committees are subunits of the Village Board and perform no
executive or administrative village function other than as specifically
authorized by ordinance or policy adopted by the Village Board.
      (2)   Each committee shall give the full Board a report on all matters
referred to it. Such report shall recommend a definite action on each item and
shall be approved by a majority of the committee. Each committee report shall
include the date, time, and place of the meeting, and the members attending.
Each such committee report, verbal or written, is deemed to be the product of
the entire committee, whether any item therein is approved unanimously or not.
Each such report should provide all necessary historical background to
familiarize the Board with the issue.
      (3)   If a committee member in a particular committee disagrees with the
position taken by the committee on an issue, such member may address the Board
with the minority position. The Board shall permit one committee member
supporting the majority position equal time to address the Board on such issue.
   (e)   Ambiguity of committee authority. In case of ambiguity or apparent
conflict between the preceding definition of committee authority and a
definition, in these ordinances, of the authority of a village officer,
employee, board, or association, the latter shall prevail.
   (f)   Cooperation of village officers. All village officers shall, upon
request of the Chairperson of any committee, confer with the committee, and
supply such information as the committee may request upon any pending matter. A
committee shall not assume responsibility for the administration of any village
department.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 2-2-5 GENERAL POWERS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (a)   General. The Village Board shall be vested with all the powers of the
village not specifically given to some other officer. Except as otherwise
provided by law, the Village Board shall have the management and control of the
village property, finances, highways, streets, navigable waters, and the public
service, and shall have the power to act for the government and good order of
the village, for its commercial benefit, and for the health, safety, welfare,
and convenience of the public, and may carry its powers into effect by license,
regulation, suppression, borrowing, taxation, special assessment,
appropriation, fine, imprisonment, and other necessary or convenient means. The
powers hereby conferred shall be in addition to all other grants, and shall be
limited only by express language.
   (b)   Acquisition and disposal of property. The Village Board may acquire
property, real or personal, within or without the village, for parks,
libraries, historic places, recreation, beautification, streets, waterworks,
sewage or waste disposal, harbors, improvement of watercourses, public grounds,
vehicle parking areas and for any other public purpose; may acquire real
property within or contiguous to the village, by means other than condemnation,
for industrial sites; may improve and beautify the same; may construct, own,
lease, and maintain buildings on such property for instruction, recreation,
amusement, and other public purposes; and may sell and convey such property.
Condemnation shall be as provided by the state statutes.
   (c)   Acquisition of easements and property rights. Confirming all powers
granted to the Village Board and in furtherance thereof, the Board is expressly
authorized to acquire by gift, purchase, or condemnation under the state
statutes, any and all property rights in lands or waters, including rights of
access and use, negative or positive easements, restrictive covenants,
covenants running with land, scenic easements, and any rights for use of
property of any nature whatsoever, however denominated, which may be lawfully
acquired for the benefit of the public or for any public purpose, including the
exercise of powers granted under Wis. Stats. §§ 61.35 and 62.23; and may sell
and convey such easements or property rights when no longer needed for public
use or protection.
   (d)   Village finances. The Village Board may levy and provide for the
collection of taxes and special assessments; may refund any tax or special
assessment paid, or any part thereof, when satisfied that the same was unjust
or illegal; and generally may manage the village finances. The Village Board
may loan money to any school district located within the village or within
which the village is wholly or partially located in such sums as are needed by
such district to meet the immediate expenses of operating the schools thereof,
and the Board of the district may borrow money from such village accordingly
and give its note therefor. No such loan shall be made to extend beyond August
30 next following the making thereof, or in an amount exceeding one-half of the
estimated receipts for such district as certified by the State Superintendent
of Public Instruction and the local school clerk. The rate of interest on any
such loan shall be determined by the Village Board.
   (e)   Construction of powers. Consistent with the purpose of giving to
villages the largest measure of self-government in accordance with the spirit
of the home rule amendment to the Constitution, the grants of power to the
Village Board in this section and throughout this code of ordinances shall be
liberally construed in favor of the rights, powers, and privileges of villages
to promote the general welfare, peace, good order, and prosperity of the
village and its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Const. Art. XI, § 3; Wis. Stats. § 61.34
§ 2-2-6 COOPERATION WITH OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   The Village Board, on behalf of the village, may join with other counties,
villages, cities, towns, or other governmental entities in a cooperative
arrangement for executing any power or duty in order to attain greater economy
or efficiency, including joint employment of appointive officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Intergovernmental cooperation, see Wis. Stats. § 61.34(2) and Chapter 66,
Subchapter III
§ 2-2-7 INTERNAL POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Village Board has the power to preserve order at its meetings. Members
of the Village Board shall be residents of the village at the time of their
election and during their terms of office.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.32
§ 2-2-8 SALARIES.
   (a)   Establishment of salaries for Village President and Trustees.
      (1)   The Village President and Village Trustees, whether operating under
general or special law, may, by a three-fourths vote of all the members of the
Village Board, determine that an annual salary be paid the President and
Trustees, pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 61.32. A SALARY shall be defined as a fixed
periodical compensation paid for services rendered. Such salaries shall be
delineated in subsection (b) below and may include:
         a.   A fixed annual salary;
         b.   A payment for each meeting attended of the governmental body or
its committees; or
         c.   A combination of both.
      (2)   Such salaries heretofore established shall so remain until changed
by ordinance adopted by a majority vote of all members of the Village Board,
and said salary shall not be increased or diminished during the current terms
of office of any President or Trustee. The changed salary shall take effect no
earlier than the beginning of the subsequent term, but may be made effective
mid-term of the subsequent term, if so indicated in the ordinance, in order to
more efficiently administer the changed salaries, as long as the ordinance
changing the salary is enacted prior to the beginning of the term.
      (3)   In addition to payments for attendance of meetings, this section
may establish additional payments for the Village President for duties
performed outside of such meetings, may allow for reimbursement to the
President and Trustees of actual expenses incurred while performing the duties
of these positions, and may allow compensation to non-elected officials
appointed by the Village Board to Board committees, or to commissions or other
boards outside the governing body.
   (b)   Restriction from appointment to or remuneration for commissions or
boards outside the official governing body. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0501,
except as expressly authorized by statute, no member of the Village Board
shall, during the term for which the member is elected, be eligible for any
office or position which, during such term, has been created by, or the
selection to which is vested in, this Board, but such member shall be eligible
for any elective office. The governing body may be represented on boards or
commissions where no additional remuneration is paid to such representatives,
and may fix the tenure of such representatives notwithstanding any other
statutory provision. This subsection (b) shall not apply to a member of the
Village Board who resigns from the Village Board before being appointed to an
office or position which was not created during the member’s term in office.
   (c)   Delineation of salaries for Village President and Trustees. The
Village President and Village Trustees in office prior to April 19, 2011, shall
continue receiving salaries and expense reimbursement according to the past
practice which existed at the beginning of their terms, summarized as follows:
      (1)   The Village President shall receive:
         a.   A fixed annual salary of $4,000 per year for regular or special
Board meetings and Committee meetings attended; and
         b.   Fifteen dollars per hour for duties performed outside of
meetings; in addition to reimbursement, at the current rate established by the
Village Board, of expenses incurred while performing the duties of this
position.
      (2)   Village Trustees shall receive:
         a.   A fixed annual salary of $2,000 per year for regular or special
Board meetings and Committee meetings attended; and
         b.   Fifteen dollars per hour for duties performed outside of
meetings; in addition to reimbursement, at the current rate established by the
Village Board, of expenses incurred while performing the duties of this
position.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. passed 12-17-2001; Ord. passed 12-20-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.32, 66.0501(2), 66.0505, 66.0507,
and Geyso v. City of Cudahy, 34 Wis. 2d 476, 483, 149 N.W.2d 611 (1967).
§ 2-2-9 MEETINGS.
   (a)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Village Board shall be held
on the third Monday of each month. The starting time of regular meetings shall
be established at the annual organizational meeting, and shall accommodate the
schedules of as many of those officials, community residents, and other
potential attendees as is reasonably possible. In the event no starting time is
established at the annual organizational meeting, it will be presumed that the
starting time used in the previous year will be retained. When the Village
Board designates an alternate date and time for the regular Board meeting, per
the above provisions, notice thereof shall be posted at the Municipal Building
in the village and in the official village newspaper prior to such re-scheduled
meeting date. All meetings of the Board shall be held at the Municipal
Building, unless specified otherwise in the minutes of the preceding meeting or
by written notice posted at the regular meeting place at least three hours
prior to any meeting. In any event, all regular Board meetings shall be held
within the boundaries of the village.
   (b)   Annual organizational meeting. The Village Board shall hold an annual
organizational meeting on the third Tuesday in April or on the first regular
meeting in May following the spring election for the purpose of organization.
   (c)   Board minutes. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall keep a record of all Board proceedings and
cause the proceedings to be published.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.32
§ 2-2-10 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Village
President, or by two Trustees filing a request with the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, at least 24 hours prior to
the time specified for such meeting. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall select the day for the special
meeting and immediately notify each Trustee of the time and purpose(s) of such
meeting. The notice shall be delivered or mailed to each Trustee personally or
left at his or her usual place of abode a minimum of 24 hours prior to the
meeting time.
      (2)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall cause a record of such notice to be filed in his or her
office prior to the time fixed for such special meeting. No business shall be
transacted at a special meeting except for the purpose(s) stated in the notice
thereof. Notice to the public of special meetings shall conform to the open
meeting requirements of Wis. Stats. § 61.32 and Chapter 19, Subchapter IV. The
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall give notice immediately upon the call for such meeting being filed with
him or her.
   (b)   The request for any special meeting shall state the purpose(s) for
which the meeting is to be called and no business shall be transacted but that
for which the meeting has been called.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.32 and 985.02(2)(a); Wis. Stats.
Chapter 19, Subchapter IV
§ 2-2-11 OPEN MEETINGS.
   (a)   Open meeting law compliance. All meetings shall be open to the public,
unless falling within a lawful exception of the State Open Meetings Law, being
Wis. Stats. §§ 19.81 et seq.
   (b)   Adjournment of meetings. An adjournment to a closed session may be
only for a permitted purpose as enumerated in Wis. Stats. § 19.85, and must
meet the other requirements of said Wis. Stats. § 19.85.
   (c)   Meetings to be open. During the holding of any open session in the
regular meeting room or in the substituted meeting room, said room and said
meeting shall at all times be open and remain open to all citizens.
   (d)   Closed meetings. The provisions of this code do not prohibit the Board
or any committee thereof from having a closed meeting which is legally convened
and legally held in a room in said building, other than the official meeting
room or in some other building in the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.32 and Wis. Stats. Chapter 19,
Subchapter IV
§ 2-2-12 QUORUM.
   (a)   Four members of the Village Board shall constitute a quorum, but a
lesser number may adjourn or compel attendance of absent members if a majority
is not present. The Village President shall be counted in computing a quorum.
   (b)   When the presiding officer shall have called the members to order, the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall proceed to call the roll in alphabetical order, noting who are present,
and who are absent, and if, after having gone through with the call, it shall
appear that a quorum is not present, the fact shall be entered in the minutes,
and the members present may adjourn to a later date in the month; if they do
not establish the next meeting date, the Village Board shall stand adjourned to
the time appointed for the next regular meeting unless a special meeting is
called sooner.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61,32
§ 2-2-13 PRESIDING OFFICERS.
   (a)   The Village President shall preside. The Village President shall
preside over meetings of the Village Board. In the absence of the Village
President, the president pro tem shall preside over Board meetings. In case of
absence of the President pro tem, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, shall call the meeting to order, and the
Trustees present shall elect one of their number acting President.
   (b)   Duties. The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, decide
all questions of order, and conduct the proceedings of the meeting in
accordance with the parliamentary rules contained in Robert’s Rules of Order,
unless otherwise provided by statute or by these rules. Any member shall have
the right to appeal from a decision of the presiding officer. Such appeal is
not debatable and must be sustained by a majority vote of the members present
excluding the presiding officer.
   (c)   President pro tem. At the Board’s annual organizational meeting, the
Board shall elect from within the membership a President pro tem, who shall
serve as presiding officer in the absence of the Village President.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.32
§ 2-2-14 MEETING AGENDAS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (a)   Agenda.
      (1)   The order of business at all regular or special meetings shall be
according to the agenda prepared by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate. All matters to be presented at a
Board meeting shall be filed with a Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, no later than 4:00 p.m. on the Monday
preceding the scheduled regular Board meeting to enable the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, to prepare
the agenda and all attachments, and distribute the same to the Village Board.
Matters filed after 4:00 p.m. on the Monday preceding the Board meeting will
not be placed upon the agenda. The President may waive the filing deadline for
emergency cause shown.
      (2)   A submitting department shall include copies of all material
necessary to consider the agenda item.
      (3)   The Village President shall advise the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, whether to include an item
on the agenda, except that the Trustees calling a special meeting shall decide
which items shall be first considered at such special meeting.
      (4)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall afford the Trustees maximum reasonable notice of agenda
items as each situation allows.
   (b)   Order of business. The business of the Village Board shall be
conducted in the following order.
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Roll call.
      (3)   Approval of consent agenda, which includes:
         a.   Minutes of previous regular and special meetings;
         b.   Treasurer’s report;
         c.   Operator’s licenses; and
         d.   Other general and routine matters which come before the Board.
      (4)   Comments and suggestions from pre-registered citizens.
      (5)   Committee reports.
      (6)   Unfinished business from previous meetings.
      (7)   New business and communications as permitted by law.
      (8)   Departmental reports.
      (9)   Comments and suggestions from citizens present.
      (10)   Presentation of accounts and claims against the village.
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (c)   Order to be followed. No business shall be taken up out of order
unless authorized by the Village President or by majority consent of all
Trustees, and in the absence of any debate whatsoever.
   (d)   Citizen’s right to address Board. A citizen may address the Board
under any or all the following criteria:
      (1)   Subsection (b)(4) above, provided the following conditions are met.
         a.   The citizen registers with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, before the meeting is called to
order, and indicates his or her desire to address the Board.
         b.   The citizen’s comments related to a matter on the agenda for the
meeting.
      (2)   Subsection (b)(9) above.
      (3)   Section
2-2-17(3).
      (4)   Except in the case of informational or public hearings, speakers
shall be limited to five minute addresses unless the Board consents, by a
majority vote of the members present, to extend the time.
      (5)   If the Village President decides that the comments are not relevant
or are abusive, the Village President may:
         a.   Order the citizen to modify his or her comments;
         b.   Order the citizen to refrain from speaking;
         c.   Order the citizen to leave the Board chambers; and/or
         d.   Take whatever steps necessary to ensure the efficient conduct of
the Board’s business.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-14)
§ 2-2-15 INTRODUCTION OF BUSINESS, RESOLUTIONS, AND ORDINANCES; DISPOSITION OF
COMMUNICATIONS.
   (a)   Ordinances. All ordinances and resolutions shall be prepared as
follows.
      (1)   Each ordinance or resolution shall include a note stating the
purpose thereof prepared by the sponsor. All ordinances submitted to the Board
shall be in writing and shall include at the outset a brief statement of the
subject matter and a title.
      (2)   The sponsor of an ordinance or resolution may be the President, one
or more Trustees, a department head or a committee, board, or commission. The
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, or
the Village Attorney, may sponsor ordinances or resolutions when changes in
state law make it necessary or desirable for the village to act rapidly.
      (3)   Each ordinance or resolution may contain both a recommended
referral to appropriate subunits of the Board and a fiscal note showing the
contemplated fiscal impact, if any, of the proposal.
      (4)   On ordinances or resolutions that require special handing, the
Administrator shall assure that an editorial note is prepared showing
compliance with such special handing.
      (5)   The Administrator may reject any ordinance or resolution from
placement on the agenda which fails to comply with this section.
      (6)   Resolutions shall be in writing at the request of one Trustee; such
request shall be nondebatable.
      (7)   Unless requested by a Trustee before a final vote is taken, no
ordinance, resolution, or bylaw need be read in full.
      (8)   Resolutions may be referred to an appropriate standing committee
for an advisory recommendation.
   (b)   Subject and numbering of ordinances. Each ordinance shall be related
to no more than one subject. Amendment or repeal of ordinances shall only be
accomplished if the amending or repealing ordinance contains the number and
title of the ordinance to be amended or repealed, and title of amending and
repealing ordinances shall reflect their purpose to amend or repeal.
   (c)   Notice. The Village Board may take action on an ordinance only if it
appears on the written agenda for meeting at which action is requested.
   (d)   Disposition of petitions, communication, and the like. Every petition
or other writing of any kind, addressed to the Village Board or to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, or other
village officer, for reference to the Village Board, shall be delivered by such
other village officer to the Village President or to the presiding officer of
the Board as soon as convenient after receipt of same, and in any event, prior
to or at the opening of the next meeting of the Village Board following the
receipt of same. Every such petition, or other writing, and every paper,
communication, or other proceeding which shall come before the Board for
action, may be referred by the Village President or presiding officer to the
appropriate committee or commission, unless objected to by some member of the
Board.
   (e)   Reference and reports. The presiding officer may refer new business
coming to the Board to the appropriate Board committee unless otherwise
referred or acted upon by the Village Board. All referrals, unless otherwise
provided for in the referral, shall be reported on at the next regular Board
meeting. Village Board motions based upon committee or commission action is
permissible only on items specifically on the agenda.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-15)
§ 2-2-16 PUBLICATION AND EFFECT OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   All general ordinances of the village and all regulations imposing any
penalty shall be published in the official paper of the village once or posted
according to state law, and shall be immediately recorded by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, in a book
kept for that purpose and/or the village code of ordinances. A printed copy of
such ordinance or regulation in any book, pamphlet, or newspaper and published
or purporting to be published therein by direction of the Village Board shall
be prima facie proof of due passage, publication, and recording thereof.
   (b)   All ordinances shall take effect and be in force from and after
passage and publication/posting thereof, unless otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.32 and 61.50
§ 2-2-17 CONDUCT OF DELIBERATIONS.
   (a)   Roll call votes. A roll call shall not be necessary on any questions
or motions, except as follows.
      (1)   When the ayes and nays are requested by any member.
      (2)   On confirmation and on the adoption of any measure assessing or
levying taxes, appropriations, or disbursing money or creating any liability or
charge against the village or any fund thereof in excess of $10,000.
      (3)   When required by the state statutes.
   (b)   Record of votes. All aye and nay votes shall be recorded in the
official minutes. The ayes and nays shall be ordered upon any question at the
request of any member of the Village Board or the President, and the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall call
the roll in alphabetical order, and the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as approriate, shall call the roll starting with “A”
and then in alphabetical order.
   (c)   Parliamentary procedure. Except as provided below, the Village Board
shall in all other respects determine the rules of its procedure, which shall
be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised (1984), which is hereby
incorporated by reference, unless otherwise provided by ordinance or statute,
except when otherwise limited or modified by this code of ordinances.
      (1)   No Trustee shall address the Board until he or she has been
recognized by the presiding officer. He or she shall thereupon address himself
or herself to Board and confine his or her remarks to the question under
discussion, and avoid all personalities.
      (2)   When two or more members simultaneously seek recognition, the
presiding officer shall name the member who is to speak first.
      (3)   No person other than a member shall address the Board except under
order of business, except the citizens may address the Board with permission of
the presiding officer as to matters which are being considered by the Board at
the time.
      (4)   When a question is in debate, no action shall be in order except
(these several motions shall have precedence in the order in which they stand):
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To lay on the table;
         c.   The previous question;
         d.   To postpone to a certain date;
         e.   To refer to a standing, select, or special committee;
         f.   To amend; and
         g.   To postpone indefinitely.
      (5)   The movant may request leave to withdraw a motion at any time prior
to voting on the question. Such a request requires no second. If any member
objects, the presiding officer shall put the question of granting the request
to vote.
   (d)   Compelling votes. No member may be compelled to vote. When a member
abstains from voting, the effect is the same as if the member voted on the
prevailing side.
   (e)   Majority vote. Unless a larger number is required by statute,
ordinance, or bylaw, a majority vote of those present at a legally constituted
meeting is necessary to carry a question.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-17)
§ 2-2-18 RECONSIDERATION OF QUESTIONS.
   Any member voting on the prevailing side may move for reconsideration of any
question, except those which cannot be reconsidered pursuant to Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-18)
§ 2-2-19 DISTURBANCES AND DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Whenever any disturbance or disorderly conduct shall occur in any of the
meetings of the Board, the President may cause the room to be cleared of all
persons causing such disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-19)
§ 2-2-20 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of §§
2-2-17 through
2-2-19 shall not be rescinded or amended unless the proposed amendment or
motion to rescind has laid over from a regular meeting, and then it shall
require a vote of two-thirds of all the members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-20)
§ 2-2-21 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   These rules shall not be suspended except by a two-thirds vote of all the
members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-21)
CHAPTER 3: MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
2-3-1   General provisions
   
2-3-2   Appointed officials
   
2-3-3   Village Administrator
   
2-3-4   Clerk
   
2-3-5   Treasurer
   
2-3-6   Chief of Police
   
2-3-7   Fire Chief
   
2-3-8   Weed Commissioner
   
2-3-9   Director of Public Works
   
2-3-10   Assessor
   
2-3-11   Municipal Judge; Municipal Court
   
2-3-12   Clerk of Municipal Court
   
2-3-13   Health Officer
   
2-3-14   Eligibility for office
   
2-3-15   Oaths of office
   
2-3-16   Vacancies
   
2-3-17   Removal from office
   
2-3-18   Custody of official property
§ 2-3-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   General powers. Officers shall have generally the powers and duties
prescribed for like officers of towns and villages, except as otherwise
provided, and such powers and duties as are prescribed by law and, except as to
the Village President, shall perform such duties as shall be required of him or
her by the Village Board. Officers whose powers and duties are not enumerated
in Wis. Stats. Chapter 61 shall have such powers and duties as are prescribed
by law for like officers, or as are directed by the Village Board.
   (b)   Rules. All officers and departments may make the necessary rules for
the conduct of their duties and incidental proceedings.
   (c)   Applicability of ethics statutes. The general laws for the punishment
of bribery, misdemeanors, and corruption in officers, shall apply to village
officers.
   (d)   Legal representation. Whenever a village official in his or her
official capacity proceeded against or obliged to proceed before any civil
court, board, or commission, to defend or maintain his or her official
position, or because of some act arising out of the performance of his or her
official duties, and he or she has prevailed in such proceedings, or the
Village Board has ordered the proceedings discontinued, the Board may provide
for payment to such official such sum, as it sees fit, to reimburse him or her
for the expenses reasonably incurred for costs and attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 2-3-2 APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   (a)   The village officials hereinafter set forth shall be appointed by the
Village President, subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the Board; and
one or more of said offices may be held by the same person. The following
persons appointed to perform the duties of the following offices shall hold
office for an indefinite term, subject to removal as provided by Wis. Stats. §
17.12(1)(c) and (d).
      (1)   Assessor.
      (2)   Director of Public Works.
      (3)   Village Attorney.
   (b)   The Village President shall not vote on the confirmation of such
appointments, except in case of a tie.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 2-3-3 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Creation and purpose. In order that the village be operated as
efficiently as possible under a system of part-time President and part-time
Trustees; and, to better ensure competent, expeditious, and efficient
administration and action in respect to any activity performed by any one or
more officers and employees of the village; and, to provide uniform
administration of policy, there is hereby created the position of the Village
Administrator for the village.
   (b)   Office of Village Administrator. The Village Administrator shall be
appointed and shall hold office for an indefinite term, serving at the pleasure
of the Village Board. Appointment and removal shall require a majority vote of
the Board.
   (c)   Powers and duties of the Village Administrator. The Village
Administrator shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the Village Board and its committees unless
excused by the Board or committee; collaborate with the Board on important
matters pertaining to village administration, business, and affairs; and make
recommendations from time to time for improving the quality and efficiency of
the services performed.
      (2)   Prepare and properly distribute the agenda and order of business
for all meetings of the Board and its committees, and other special committees
of the village. Nothing herein shall be construed to give the Village
Administrator authority to limit or in any way prevent matters from being
considered by any of the above-named bodies.
      (3)   Coordinate and/or initiate village activities in the areas of
business and community development, planning, and in the area of grant
application and administration.
      (4)   Establish such methods of handling details of administration as
will, in the Administrator’s opinion, best promote efficient operation of the
village’s business and affairs.
      (5)   Administer the operation and maintenance of all village owned
property, lands, buildings, improvements, and equipment, and the construction
of all public ways, public works, and improvements undertaken either directly
or indirectly by the village.
      (6)   Prepare annually and submit to the Village Board a financial budget
of anticipated income and expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year and to
supervise and control the expenditures of money and the administration of such
budget as adopted, and to report to the Board, from time to time, the current
state of the budget and expenditures of the village.
      (7)   Act as personnel officer for the village by maintaining a current
personnel file for all departments, and, upon request of the Board, to make
recommendations concerning salaries and other personnel policies.
      (8)   Recommend the appointment, promotion, suspension, or termination of
appointed officers and department heads to the Village Board for confirmation
and, on the recommendation of department heads, recommend the appointment,
promotion, or termination of other village employees, except for employees
under the jurisdiction of another statutorily defined municipal board.
      (9)   Ensure that all village ordinances are enforced.
      (10)   Perform all other tasks and duties as requested to be performed
from time to time by the Village Board.
(Ord. passed 4-26-2004)
§ 2-3-4 CLERK.
   (a)   The Clerk shall be appointed by the Village Administrator, subject to
confirmation by a majority vote of the Village Board for an indefinite term.
The Clerk may be terminated for cause by a majority vote of the Village Board
and at the pleasure of the Village Board by a six-sevenths vote of the Village
Board.
   (b)   The Clerk shall possess the authority of the Clerk as defined in the
state statutes and the village ordinances.
   (c)   The Clerk shall perform the duties of the Clerk defined in Wis. Stats.
§ 61.25, which include duties defined in village ordinances, and duties
specified by the Village Board.
(Ord. passed 4-26-2004)
§ 2-3-5 TREASURER.
   (a)   The Treasurer shall be appointed by the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, subject to confirmation by a
majority vote of the Village Board, for an indefinite term. The Treasurer may
be terminated for cause by a majority vote of the Village Board and at the
pleasure of the Village Board by a six-sevenths vote of the Village Board.
   (b)   The Treasurer shall possess the authority of the Treasurer as defined
in the state statutes and the village ordinances.
   (c)   The Treasurer shall perform the duties of the Treasurer defined in
Wis. Stats. § 61.26, including duties defined in village ordinances and duties
specified by the Village Board.
(Ord. passed 4-26-2004)
§ 2-3-6 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (a)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
members of the Village Board for an indefinite term, subject to removal by a
two-thirds vote of the members of the Board, pursuant to the procedures
established in Wis. Stats. § 61.65(1)(am). The Chief shall exercise the powers
and duties of village marshals and village constables, and any other powers and
duties prescribed by the Village Board, village ordinances, or the state
statutes. Upon a permanent vacancy, an officer designated by the Board shall
temporarily replace the Chief until the vacancy is filled by the Village Board.
      (2)   The compensation to be paid the Chief of Police for his or her
services, the hours of active duty, rest days, vacation periods, and other
involvement of his or her employment shall be such as may be determined by the
Village Board from time to time. In the event of vacation or temporary
disability, the Chief of Police shall appoint an officer in charge to act in
the Chief’s absence.
   (b)   General duties.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall have command of the Police Department. He
or she shall have general administration and control of the Department and
shall be responsible for the Department’s government, efficiency, and general
good conduct. He or she shall perform all duties prescribed to him or her by
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the village, and shall obey all
lawful written orders of the Village Board or appropriate Committee thereof.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall cause the public peace to be preserved
and may arrest, and with reasonable diligence take before the proper court
every person found in the village engaged in any disturbance of the peace or
violating any law of the state or ordinance of the village. The Chief shall
cooperate with other law enforcement officers in the arrest or apprehension of
persons charged with crime. He or she shall see that all laws and ordinances of
the village and state are enforced. Whenever any violation thereof shall come
to his or her knowledge, he or she shall cause the requisite complaint to be
made and see that the evidence is procured for the successful prosecution of
the offender or offenders. He or she shall exercise supervisory control over
all the personnel of his or her department and may adopt, subject to the
approval of the Village Board, rules and regulations for the government,
discipline, equipment, and uniforms of the police officers. He or she shall be
solely responsible for the care and condition of the equipment used by his or
her Department. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete record of all
complaints, arrests, traffic violations, convictions, and dispositions of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.65(1)(am)
§ 2-3-7 FIRE CHIEF.
   (a)   Appointment. The Fire Chief shall assume office pursuant to the bylaws
of the Fire Department. He or she shall be the Village Fire Inspector by virtue
of his or her office.
   (b)   Powers and duties of Chief.
      (1)   The Chief shall have general supervision of the Department, subject
to this chapter and the bylaws of the Department, and shall be responsible for
the personnel and general efficiency of the Department.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief, or ranking officer of the
Department, to be present at all fires, to have complete command of and entire
responsibility for all firefighting operations, to plan the control of the
same, to direct the action of the company when they arrive at a fire, to
observe that the Department does its duty, to grant leaves of absence at a fire
when he or she may deem it proper, and to see that the fire apparatus is kept
in proper condition at all times.
      (3)   He or she shall enforce all fire prevention ordinances of the
village and state laws and regulations pertaining to fire prevention, and shall
keep citizens informed on fire prevention methods and on the activities of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7)
Cross reference:
   For regulations on fire protection, see
Title 5, Chapter 2
§ 2-3-8 WEED COMMISSIONER.
   (a)   The Weed Commissioner shall be appointed by the Village President,
subject to Village Board confirmation. The term of office of the Weed
Commissioner shall commence on the first day of May following his or her
appointment.
   (b)   The Weed Commissioner shall take the official oath, which oath shall
be filed in the office of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, and shall hold office for one year. The Weed
Commissioner shall hold office pursuant to, and fulfill the duties set out in,
state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 66.0517
§ 2-3-9 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (a)   Appointment. The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the
Village President, subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the Village
Board, on the basis of merit, training, experience, administrative ability,
efficiency, and general qualifications and fitness for performing the duties of
the position.
   (b)   Term. The Director of Public Works shall be appointed pursuant to §
2-3-2.
   (c)   Duties and powers. The Director of Public Works shall have the
following duties and powers.
      (1)   He or she shall have general charge and supervision of all public
works in the village.
      (2)   He or she shall be responsible for the maintenance, repair, and
construction of streets, alleys, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, bridges, street
signs, and storm sewers. Village buildings and structures, and all machinery,
equipment, and property used in any activity under his or her control.
      (3)   He or she shall have charge of all public services, including
garbage and refuse collection and disposal, snow and ice removal, street
cleaning and flushing, and mosquito and rodent control.
      (4)   He or she shall perform such other activities and duties as are
imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Village Board, or his or her
job description or employment contract.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9)
§ 2-3-10 ASSESSOR.
   (a)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. §§ 61.195, 61.197, and 66.0101, the village
hereby elects not to be governed by those portions of Wis. Stats. §§ 61.19 and
61.23 which relate to the selection and tenure of the Village Assessor, and
which are in conflict with this section.
   (b)   Hereafter, instead of being elected the Assessor, or an assessing firm
shall be appointed by the Village President, subject to confirmation by a
majority vote of the members elect of the Village Board. Said person so
appointed to perform the duties of such office shall have an indefinite term,
and shall serve as determined by contract. A corporation or an independent
contractor may be appointed as the Village Assessor. The corporation or
independent contractor so appointed shall designate the person responsible for
the assessment. The designee shall file the official oath under Wis. Stats. §
19.01, and sign the affidavit of the Assessor attached to the assessment roll
under Wis. Stats. § 70.49. No person may be designated by any corporation or
independent contractor unless he or she has been granted the appropriate
certification under Wis. Stats. § 73.09. For purposes of this subsection (b),
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR means a person who either is under contract to furnish
appraisal and assessment services, or is customarily engaged in an
independently established trade, business, or profession in which the services
are offered to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10)
Statutory reference:
   Affidavit of Assessor, see Wis. Stats.§ 70.49
   Assessor certification, see Wis. Stats. § 73.02
   Assessors in cities, see Wis. Stats. § 70.05
   Corporation as Assessor, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.197 and 61.27
   Public official’s oaths and bonds, see Wis. Stats. § 19.01
§ 2-3-11 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (a)   Established. Pursuant to the authority granted by Wis. Stats. Chapter
755, there is hereby established a Municipal Court for the village.
   (b)   Office of Municipal Judge created. Pursuant to the authority granted
by Wis. Stats. Chapter 755, there is hereby created the office of Municipal
Judge for the Municipal Court for the village.
   (c)   Election; term. The Municipal Judge shall be elected at large at the
spring election on the even-numbered years for a term of two years commencing
on May 1 succeeding the election. The Municipal Judge shall be subject to the
State Code of Judicial Ethics and shall file an annual financial statement.
   (d)   Salary. The salary of the Municipal Judge may be increased for a new
term prior to the beginning of the term for the Judge, or for the second year
of a term before the start of the second year of the term of the Judge, but the
salary shall not be decreased during the term of the Judge. Salaries may be
paid annually or in equal installments as determined by the Village Board, but
no Judge may be paid a salary for that portion of any term during which portion
the Judge has not executed the official bond or official oath as required by
Wis. Stats. § 755.03, and filed under Wis. Stats. § 19.01(4)(c), as amended.
   (e)   Bond; oath. The Municipal Judge shall execute and file with the Clerks
of the Circuit Court for Barron and Polk Counties the oath prescribed by Wis.
Stats. § 755.03, and an official bond in such an amount as shall be fixed by
the Village Board.
   (f)   Procedure in Municipal Court.
      (1)   The procedure in Municipal Court for the village shall be as
provided in this section and state law, including, but not by way of
limitation, Wis. Stats. Chapters 62, 66, 755, and 800.
      (2)   The Municipal Court shall be open as determined by the Municipal
Judge.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge shall keep his or her office and hold court in
the Municipal Building.
      (4)   If the Municipal Judge is temporarily absent, sick, or disabled,
the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 800.06(1) shall apply, and if the Municipal
Judge becomes incompetent, unable, or fails to act, or in the event of a
vacancy, the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 800.06(2) shall apply. Any substitute
Municipal Judge designated or assigned hereunder shall be compensated as
authorized by the Village Board. The Municipal Judge shall satisfy all
continuing education requirements for municipal judges.
      (5)   Upon the proper and timely written request for substitution of the
Municipal Judge, the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 800.05 shall apply.
      (6)   The procedures of the Municipal Court shall be in accord with the
applicable state statutes and village ordinances. The Court shall abide by the
State Rules of Evidence and shall abide by the Uniform State Traffic Deposit
Schedule. In non-traffic matters, the Chief of Police shall draft a bond
schedule, which shall become effective upon approval by the Village Board. No
bond shall exceed the maximum penalty which could be imposed for the ordinance
violation.
   (g)   Fees.
      (1)   Bonds for appearance, partial payments, and other funds collected
by the Court shall be treated as escrow funds and deposited with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall collect all forfeitures and
costs in any action or proceeding before him or her, and shall pay over such
moneys to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, not later than the end of each month. At the time of payment, the
Municipal Court Clerk shall report to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, the title of the action, the offense
for which the forfeiture was imposed, and the total amount of the forfeiture,
fees, penalty assessments, and costs, if any. The Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall disburse the fees as
provided in Wis. Stats. § 814.65, and disburse any penalty assessments pursuant
to Wis. Stats. § 66.0114(1)(b).
   (h)   Board may abolish Municipal Court. The Village Board may, by ordinance
or by law, abolish the Municipal Court at the end of any term for which the
Judge has been elected.
   (i)   Statutes adopted by reference. Wis. Stats. Chapters 755 and 800, are
hereby adopted by reference.
   (j)   Contempt of court.
      (1)   The Municipal Judge may punish for contempt of the Municipal Court
for the village persons guilty of either of the following acts.
         a.   Intentional misconduct in the presence of the Court which
interferes with a court proceeding or with the administration of justice, or
which impairs the due respect for the Court.
         b.   Intentional disobedience, resistance, or obstruction of
authority, process, or order of the Municipal Court.
      (2)   a.   No person may be punished for contempt before a Municipal
Judge until an opportunity has been given to the person to be heard in his or
her defense.
         b.   If the contempt alleged involves disrespect or criticism of a
municipal judge, that judge is disqualified from presiding at the trial of
contempt unless the person charged consents to the judge presiding at the
trial. For the purpose of hearing a person’s defense, the Municipal Judge may,
if the alleged defendant does not appear for trial, issue a warrant for the
person to be brought before the Municipal Judge.
   (k)   Joint Municipal Court.
      (1)   Municipal Court created. Pursuant to the authority granted by Wis.
Stats. Chapter 755, there is hereby created and established a Joint Municipal
Court to be designated “Municipal Court for the Village of Turtle Lake, Village
of Almena, and Town of Almena,” said court to become operative and function on
August 1, 2005 (August 1, 2007 for the Town of Almena).
      (2)   Municipal Judge.
         a.   Qualifications. The Joint Court shall be under the jurisdiction
of and presided over by a Municipal Judge who resides in one of the
municipalities that is a party to the agreement forming this Joint Court.
         b.   Oath and bond. The Judge shall, after election or appointment to
fill a vacancy, take and file the official oath as prescribed in Wis. Stats. §
757.02(1), and at the same time execute and file an official bond in the amount
of $1,000. The Judge shall not act until the oath and bond have been filed as
required by Wis. Stats. § 19.01(4)(c), and the requirements of Wis. Stats. §
755.03(2) have been complied with.
         c.   Salary. The salary of the Municipal Judge shall be fixed by the
Boards of the municipalities that are parties to the agreement which shall be
in lieu of fees and costs. No salary shall be paid for any time during the term
during which such Judge has not executed the official bond or official oath, as
required by Wis. Stats. § 755.03, and filed pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.01 (4)
(c). The municipalities may by separate ordinance allocate funds for the
administration of the Municipal Court pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0301.
      (3)   Elections.
         a.   Term. The Municipal Judge shall be elected at large in the spring
election in even-numbered years for a term of two years commencing on May 1.
The first election for the joint court shall be in 2008. Until then the current
Municipal Judge for the village shall preside. All candidates for the position
of Municipal Judge shall be nominated by nomination papers as provided in Wis.
Stats. § 8.10, and selection at a primary election if such is held as provided
in Wis. Stats. § 8.11. The state elections board shall serve as filing officer
for the candidates.
         b.   Electors. Electors in all municipalities that are parties to the
agreement shall be eligible to vote for the Judge.
      (4)   Jurisdiction.
         a.   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction over incidents
occurring on or after August 1, 2005 (August 1, 2007 for Town of Almena) as
provided in Article VII, § 14 of the Wisconsin Constitution, Wis. Stats. §§
755.045 and 755.05, and as other provided by state law. In addition, it shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over actions in the municipalities that are parties
to the agreement seeking to impose forfeitures for violations of municipal
ordinances, resolutions and by-laws.
         b.   The Municipal Judge may issue civil warrants to enforce matters
under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court under Wis. Stats. §§ 755.045(2)
and 66.0119.
         c.   The Municipal Court has jurisdiction over juvenile offenders when
a municipality that is party to the agreement enacts an ordinance under the
authority of Wis. Stats. § 938.17(2)(cm).
      (5)   Municipal Court.
         a.   Hours. The Joint Municipal court shall be in session at the
Village Hall during regular operating hours of that hall or at such location
and at such times as deemed appropriate by the governing bodies of the
municipalities that are parties to the agreement and the Municipal Judge.
         b.   Employees. The Judge shall, in writing, appoint such clerks and
deputy clerks are authorized and funded by the Boards of the municipalities
that are parties to the agreement.
      (6)   Collection of forfeitures and costs.
         a.   The Municipal Judge may impose punishment and sentences as
provided by Wis. Stats. Chapters 800 and 938, and as provided in the ordinances
of the municipalities that are parties to the agreement. The Joint Municipal
Court shall be responsible for collection of all forfeitures, fees, costs, and
surcharges imposed.
         b.   The Treasurer of the village shall be responsible for preparing
and filing the required monthly financial reports with the Department of
Administration, and for remitting the costs and fees payable to the state and
county.
         c.   Each municipality shall receive the forfeitures and costs from
the cases arising within its boundaries. Such monies shall be paid to the
Treasurer of the municipality within which the case arose each quarter. At the
time of the payment, the Municipal Court shall report to the treasurer of that
municipality the title of the action, the nature of the offenses, and total
amount of judgments imposed in actions and proceedings in which such monies
were collected.
         d.   The Village of Almena and the Town of Almena will be billed
quarterly for the following charges related to the administration of each
action handled by the Joint Municipal Court:
 
Category 1 $20 for each citation which is not contested, including forfeitures
           of deposits and requests for time to pay.
           $30 for each citation requiring notice of judgment, requests for
Category 2 additional time to pay (regardless of how many such requests are
           made), not guilty pleas, and pre-trial conferences, suspensions,
           writs, and warrants.
Category 3 $40 for trials and reopened cases.
 
         e.   The maximum charge for administering an action or case shall be
$40. If an action or case moves from one category to another, only an
additional $10 will be charged for each such move up.
         f.   Additional costs will be charged to the Town of Almena and the
Village of Almena for police time in court appearances, witness fees and
mileage, interpreters, and the like.
      (7)   Contempt of Court. The Municipal Judge, after affording an
opportunity to the person accused to be heard in defense, may impose a sanction
authorized under Wis. Stats. § 800.12, and may impose a forfeiture therefore
not to exceed $50 or upon nonpayment of the forfeiture and the assessments
thereon, a jail sentence not to exceed seven days.
      (8)   Prosecutor. All Court matters requiring a prosecutor shall be
handled by the municipal attorney for the Village of Turtle Lake. No charge
will be made to the Village of Almena or the Town of Almena for the services of
the prosecutor.
      (9)   Abolition. The Municipal Court hereby established shall not be
abolished while the Wis. Stats. § 755.01(4) agreement is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-11) (Ord. 07-01, passed 7-16-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. Chapters 755 and 800
§ 2-3-12 CLERK OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (a)   Appointment. The Municipal Judge shall, in writing, appoint a Clerk of
the Municipal Court. The Clerk’s salary shall be fixed by the Village Board.
The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall hold office for an indefinite term of
office. The Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
take the oath provided by Wis. Stats. § 19.01, and give such bond as the Board
may require. The oath and bond of the Clerk of Municipal Court shall be filed
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate. The cost of such bond shall be paid by the village.
   (b)   Duties. The Court Clerk shall:
      (1)   File and review citations and complaints, assuring their
correctness;
      (2)   Reply to departmental mail concerning routine matters as prescribed
by the Municipal Judge;
      (3)   Assign docket numbers to citations and complaints, type the docket
sheets, and gather all material pertinent to cases;
      (4)   Determine and schedule Court dates and facilities;
      (5)   Communicate with law officers, attorneys, and defendants regarding
court proceedings;
      (6)   Balance dockets at the conclusion of court proceedings;
      (7)   Prepare and mail warrants and summons;
      (8)   Prepare monthly report of financial activities;
      (9)   Assist in the collection of traffic bonds;
      (10)   Prepare necessary communications for jury trials and transfers to
Circuit Court; and
      (11)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Municipal
Judge and Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-12)
§ 2-3-13 HEALTH OFFICER.
   (a)   Selection. The Village President shall annually appoint a Health
Officer, subject to confirmation by the Village Board. The Health Officer’s
term shall be for a one-year period, and shall commence on the first day of May
succeeding his or her appointment. Such Health Officer shall be a physician, or
in lieu thereof, a person with training and experience in public health
administration which shall meet training and experience requirements
established by the State Department of Health and Social Services. If the
Health Officer is not a physician, the Board of Health shall arrange for and
provide in addition such services of a physician as may be necessary on either
a part-time or full-time basis, and provide a reasonable compensation therefor.
   (b)   Vacancy. If a vacancy in the position of Health Officer occurs, the
Village President shall immediately fill the position.
   (c)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall provide such additional rules and
regulations as are necessary for the preservation of health, to prevent the
spread of communicable diseases, and to cause the removal of all objects
detrimental to health, and to enforce the health laws. All proposed rules and
regulations shall be reported to the Village Board by the Health Officer, and
if the Board approves the same by a vote of a majority of its members, they
shall have the force and effect of ordinances, including penalty for violation.
      (2)   The Health Officer shall from time to time recommend to the Village
Board such sanitary measures, to be executed by the village as seem necessary,
and shall discharge such other duties as may be imposed upon the Board by
ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Admin. Code, § DSS 139.05
§ 2-3-14 ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE.
   (a)   No person shall be elected by the people to a village office who is
not at the time of his or her election a citizen of the United States and of
the state, and an elector of the village, and in case of a ward office, of the
ward, and actually residing therein.
   (b)   An appointee by the Village President, requiring to be confirmed by
the Village Board, who shall be rejected by the Board, shall be ineligible for
appointment to the same office for one year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-14)
Statutory reference
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 62.09(2)
§ 2-3-15 OATHS OF OFFICE.
   (a)   Oath of office.
      (1)   Every officer of the village, including members of village boards
and commissions, shall, before entering upon his or her duties and within five
days of his or her election or appointment or notice thereof, take the oath of
office prescribed by law and file such oath in the office of the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, provided
that the Municipal Judge shall take his or her official oath within ten days
after his or her election and file it with the Clerks of Circuit Court for the
counties prior to acting as Judge.
      (2)   Any person reelected or reappointed to the same office shall take
and file an official oath for each term of service.
   (b)   Form, procedure. The form, filing, and general procedure for the
taking of oaths shall be governed by Wis. Stats. Chapter 19, Subchapter I.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. Chapter 19, Subchapter I
§ 2-3-16 VACANCIES.
   (a)   How occurring. Except as provided in subsection (c) below, vacancies
in elective and appointive positions occur as provided in Wis. Stats. §§ 17.03
and 17.035.
   (b)   How filled. Vacancies in elective and appointive offices shall be
filled as provided in Wis. Stats. § 17.23.
   (c)   Temporary incapacitation. If any officer be absent or temporarily
incapacitated from any cause, the Board may appoint some person to discharge
his or her duties until he or she returns, or until such disability is removed.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.23
§ 2-3-17 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (a)   Elected officials. Elected officials may be removed by the Village
Board as provided in Wis. Stats. §§ 17.12(1)(a) and 17.16.
   (b)   Appointed officials. Appointed officials may be removed as provided in
Wis. Stats. §§ 17.12(1)(c) and 17.16.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-17)
Editor’s note:
   Within the village’s prior code, “Annotation: 62 Atty. Gen. Op. 97” was
written at the end of § 2-3-17.
§ 2-3-18 CUSTODY OF OFFICIAL PROPERTY.
   Village officers must observe the standards of care imposed by Wis. Stats. §
19.21, with respect to the care and custody of official property.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-18)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 19.21
CHAPTER 4: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
Section
   
2-4-1   Board of Review
   
2-4-2   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
2-4-3   Plan Commission
   
2-4-4   General provisions regarding meetings and public notice
   
2-4-5   Residency required for service on board and commissions; attendance
standards
   
2-4-6   Citizen participation on Parks and Recreation Committee
§ 2-4-1 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a)   Composition. The Board of Review for the village shall be composed of
the Village President, Village Clerk, and three village Trustees. The three
Trustees shall be appointed by the Village President subject to confirmation by
the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall also serve as Clerk of the Board of
Review. The Assessor shall attend all meetings of the Board of Review, but
shall not vote.
   (b)   Appointment of alternate members. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. §§ 70.47(6m)
(c) and 70.46(1), the Village Board hereby provides for the appointment of
alternates to serve on the Village Board of Review in the event a standing
Board member of the Board of Review is removed or unable to serve for any
reason. The alternate members of the Board of Review, who must be electors of
the village, shall be appointed in order of succession by resolution of the
Village Board, and shall be confirmed annually.
   (c)   Compensation. The members of the Board of Review shall receive
compensation as determined by resolution of the Village Board.
   (d)   Duties. The duties and functions of the Board of Review shall be as
prescribed in Wis. Stats. §§ 70.46 and 70.47.
   (e)   Meetings.
      (1)   In accordance with Wis. Stats. § 70.47(3)(b), the Village Board do
hereby exercise their right to designate hours for the annual Board of Review
proceedings other than those set forth in Wis. Stats. § 70.47(3)(a), and do
hereby designate the hours of the annual Board of Review meeting to be 1:00
p.m. to 3:00 p.m., or such other time as the Village Board shall specify by
resolution.
      (2)   The Board may adjourn from day to day or from time to time, until
such time as its business is completed, providing that adequate notice of each
adjournment is so given.
   (f)   Objections to valuations to be written. No person shall be permitted
to appear and make objection before the Board of Review of the village to the
amount of valuation of any property unless objection thereto shall first have
been made in writing and filed with the Clerk of the Board of Review.
   (g)   Confidentiality of information about income and expenses. Whenever the
Assessor, in the performance of the Assessor’s duties, requests or obtains
income and expense information that is provided to the Assessor under Wis.
Stats. § 70.47(7)(af), such information shall be held by the Assessor on a
confidential basis, except, that the information may be revealed to and used by
persons in the discharge of duties imposed by law; in the discharge of duties
imposed by office (including, but not limited to, use by the Assessor in
performance of official duties of the Assessor’s office and use by the Board of
Review in performance of its official duties); or pursuant to order of a court
of competent jurisdiction. Income and expense information provided to the
Assessor under Wis. Stats. § 70.47(7)(af), unless a court determines that it is
inaccurate, is, in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 70.47(7)(af), not subject to
inspection and copying as a public record under Wis. Stats. § 19.35(1).
   (h)   Severability. The several sections of this section are declared to be
severable. If any subsection or portion thereof shall be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, unlawful, or unenforceable, such decision
shall apply only to the specific section or portion thereof directly specified
in the decision, and shall not affect the validity of any other provisions,
subsections, or portions of the section. The remainder of the section shall
remain in full force and effect. Any other ordinances whose terms conflict with
the provisions of this section are hereby repealed as to those terms that
conflict.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2017)
§ 2-4-2 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (a)   Establishment. A Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed and
governed by the state zoning enabling law as contained in Wis. Stats. § 62.23,
the village zoning code and ordinances, and this section. The laws of the state
or village and local ordinances shall prevail in that order. The Zoning Board
of Appeals shall consist of five citizen members and two alternate members,
appointed by the Village President subject to confirmation by the Village
Board, for a three-year term of office. The members shall be removable by the
Village Board for cause upon written charges and upon public hearing. The
Village President shall designate one of the members the Chairperson.
   (b)   Powers. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers.
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of any village zoning code or any ordinance adopted
under Wis. Stats. §§ 62.23, 61.35, or 62.231 (wetlands), 87.30 or 144.26
(floodplains), or Chapter 91 (farmland preservation).
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the village
zoning and floodplain zoning regulations upon which the Board of Appeals is
required to pass.
      (3)   To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such variance from the
terms of the village zoning regulations as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement will result
in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the
Zoning Code shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and
substantial justice done; provided, however, that no such action shall have the
effect of establishing in any district a use or uses not permitted in such
district. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant use variances in
floodplain or wetland and conservancy districts. In all other districts, no use
variance shall be granted unless the applicant has first petitioned for a
zoning amendment or a conditional use permit, if applicable, and upon a showing
that no lawful and feasible use of the subject property can be made in the
absence of such variance. Any use variance granted shall be limited to the
specific use described in the Board’s decision and shall not permit variances
in yard, area, or other requirements of the district in which located.
      (4)   To permit the erection and use of a building or premises in any
location subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards in harmony with the
general purposes of the zoning code, for such purposes which are reasonably
necessary for public convenience and welfare.
      (5)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm wholly or in
part, or may modify any order, requirement, decision, or determination as in
its opinion ought to be made in the premises. The concurring vote of four
members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter on which it is required to pass, or to effect any
variation in the requirements of the Zoning Code. The grounds of every such
determination shall be stated and recorded. No order of the Zoning Board of
Appeals granting a variance shall be valid for a period longer than six months
from the date of such order, unless the land use permit is obtained within such
period and the erection or alteration of a building is started, or the use is
commenced within such period.
   (c)   Meeting and rules.
      (1)   All meetings and hearings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
open to the public, except that the Board may go into executive session to
deliberate after a hearing or an appeal. The final vote on an appeal shall be
taken in open session by roll call vote, recorded and open for public
inspection in the Board’s office. Public notice of all regular and special
meetings shall be given to the public and news media as required by the State
Open Meeting Law, Wis. Stats. §§ 19.81 et seq.
      (2)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by the
Secretary at the request of two members. Notice of a special meeting shall be
mailed to each member at least 48 hours prior to the time set for the meeting,
or announcement of the meeting shall be made at any meeting at which all
members are present.
      (3)   Hearings may be held at any regular or special meeting at the time
set by the Chairperson.
      (4)   A quorum for any meeting or hearing shall consist of four members,
but a lesser number may meet and adjourn to a specified time.
      (5)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examination and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and shall be
public record. The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict
with this code of ordinances or with the applicable state statutes.
      (6)   No Board member shall participate in the decision of or vote upon
any case in which the member is financially interested, directly or indirectly,
but the Chairperson shall direct an alternate member to act instead.
Disqualification of a member for interest shall not decrease the number of
votes required for acting upon any matter, but such member may be counted in
determining whether a quorum is present for the transaction of business.
   (d)   Offices. The Village Board shall provide suitable offices for holding
hearings and the presentation of records, documents, and accounts.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(e)
§ 2-4-3 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (a)   Composition. For purposes of this code of ordinances, the Village
Board’s Planning Commission, together with the Chairperson of the Village Parks
Committee and the Public Works Director, shall serve in the role of Plan
Commission. References to a Plan Commission throughout this code of ordinances
shall mean the Planning Commission, together with the Chairperson of the
Village Parks Committee and the Public Works Director.
   (b)   Duties.
      (1)   The Master Plan.
         a.   The Plan Commission shall make, adopt, and, as necessary, amend,
extend, or add to the Master Plan, subject to Village Board confirmation, for
the physical development of the village including areas outside of its
boundaries which, in the Plan Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the
development of the village. The Master Plan, with the accompanying maps, plats,
and descriptive and explanatory matter, shall show the Commission’s
recommendations for such physical development, and may include, among other
things without limitation because of enumeration, the general location,
character, and extent of streets, highways, freeways, street grades, roadways,
walks, parking areas, public places and areas, parks, parkways, playgrounds,
sites for public buildings and structures, and the general location and extent
of sewers, water conduits, and other public utilities whether privately or
publicly owned, the acceptance, widening, narrowing, extension, relocation,
removal, vacation, abandonment, or change of use of any of the foregoing public
ways, grounds, places, spaces, buildings, properties, utilities, routes, or
terminals, the general location, character, and extent of community centers and
neighborhood units, and a comprehensive zoning plan.
         b.   The Commission may adopt the Master Plan as a whole by a single
resolution, or, as the work of making the whole master plan progresses, may
from time to time by resolution adopt a part or parts thereof, any such part to
correspond generally with one or more of the functional subdivisions of the
subject matter of the Plan.
         c.   The adoption of the plan or any part, amendment or addition,
shall be by resolution carried by the affirmative votes of not less than a
majority of all the members of the Plan Commission, subject to confirmation by
the Village Board. The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps,
descriptive matter, and other matters intended by the Commission to form the
whole or any part of the Plan, and the action taken shall be recorded on the
adopted Plan or part thereof by the identifying signature of the secretary of
the Commission, and a copy of the Plan or part thereof shall be certified to
the Village Board. The purpose and effect of the adoption and certifying of the
Master Plan or part thereof shall be solely to aid the Plan Commission and the
Village Board in the performance of their duties.
      (2)   Matters referred to Plan Commission. The Village Board or officer
of the village having final authority thereon, shall refer to the Plan
Commission, for its consideration and report before final action is taken by
the Board, public body, or officer, the following matters: the location of any
statue or other memorial; the location, acceptance, extension, alteration,
vacation, abandonment, change of use, sale, acquisition of land for or lease of
land for any street, alley, or other public way, park, playground, airport,
area for parking vehicles, or other memorial or public grounds; the location,
extension, abandonment, or authorization for any public utility whether
publicly or privately owned; all plats of lands in the village or within the
territory over which the village is given platting jurisdiction by Wis. Stats.
Chapter 236; the location, character, and extent or acquisition, leasing or
sale of lands for public or semi-public housing, slum clearance, relief of
congestion, or vacation camps for children; and the amendment or repeal of any
land use ordinance.
      (3)   Miscellaneous powers. The Commission may make reports and
recommendations relating to the plan and development of the village to public
officials and agencies, civic, educational, professional, and other
organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the Village Board programs for
public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials shall, upon
request, furnish to the Commission, within a reasonable time, such available
information as it may require for its work. The Commission, its members, and
employees, in the performance of its functions, may enter upon any land, make
examinations and surveys, and place and maintain necessary monuments and
markers thereon, In general, the Commission shall have such powers as may be
necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote municipal planning
in cooperation with the Village Board. The Commission shall oversee community
development block grants. The Village Board may refer to the Commission for its
consideration and recommendation any matter pertaining to planning and
development of land within the village. All plats or replats of any lands
within the limits of the village shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendation to the Village Board before the same are approved by the Village
Board.
   (c)   Compensation oath. Compensation for service on the Commission shall be
as established by the Village Board. Citizen members shall take the official
oath required by Wis. Stats. § 19.01, which shall be filed with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (d)   Organization. As soon as all members of the first Commission shall
have been appointed, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall give each member a written notice of the
appointment and thereon shall fix the time and place of the first meeting which
shall be not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter. Such Commission
shall elect a Vice-Chairperson and a secretary, and shall keep a written record
of its proceedings to include all actions taken, a copy of which shall be filed
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate.
   (e)   Employees; budget. The Plan Commission shall have the power to employ
experts and such staff as may be necessary, and to pay for their services and
such other expenses as may be necessary and proper, within the limits of the
budget established by the Village Board, or placed at its disposal through
gift, and subject to any ordinance or resolution enacted by the Village Board.
As far as possible, the Commission shall utilize the services of existing
village officials and employees.
   (f)   Rules of procedure; report. The Plan Commission is hereby authorized
to adopt rules governing its own proceedings. The Commission shall make a
monthly report in writing to the Village Board of its transactions and
expenditures, if any, for the preceding month, with such general
recommendations as to matters covered by its prescribed duties and authority as
it seem proper.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 61.35, 62.23, and Chapter 236
§ 2-4-4 GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING MEETINGS AND PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (a)   Regular meetings; public notice. Every board, committee, and
commission created by or existing under the ordinances of the village shall:
      (1)   Schedule a date, time, and place for its meetings;
      (2)   Post, or when necessary publish, notice in or notify the official
village newspaper in advance of each such regular meeting of the date, time,
and place thereof, in compliance with state law, thereof; and/or
      (3)   Post an agenda of the matters to be taken up at such meeting.
   (b)   Special meetings. Nothing in subsection (a) above shall preclude the
calling of a special meeting or dispensing with the publication of notice or
such posting of the agenda, for good cause, but such special meetings shall
nonetheless comply in all respects with the provisions of Wis. Stats.§§ 19.81
and 19.89.
   (c)   Minutes. The secretary of each board, committee, and commission shall
file a copy of the meeting minutes of such board or commission with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-4)
§ 2-4-5 RESIDENCY REQUIRED FOR SERVICE ON BOARD AND COMMISSIONS; ATTENDANCE
STANDARDS.
   (a)   Residency. No person not a resident of and not residing in the village
shall be appointed in a voting capacity to any village board, committee, or
commission. Any board or commission member who moves from the village shall be
removed from such board or commission, but may be appointed to serve in an ex
officio capacity.
   (b)   Attendance standard. Members of board, committees, and commissions are
required to attend a minimum of two-thirds of the meetings in each six-month
period of their respective bodies, unless excused by the membership of their
body. Failure to comply with this subsection (b) may result in the removal and
replacement of the official found to be in noncompliance.
   (c)   Appointments. Appointments to boards, commissions, and committees
under this chapter shall be subject to the appointment standards of §
2-3-16(b).
(Prior Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 2-4-6 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION ON PARKS AND RECREATION COMMITTEE.
   (a)   The village is responsible for providing programming and
administrative guidance in all areas related to parks and recreation throughout
the community.
   (b)   The village considers citizen participation and public involvement to
be an important element of local governance.
   (c)   The village considers youth involvement to be of great importance to
the long term success and sustainability of the village community.
   (d)   Two additional members shall be added to the Village Parks and
Recreation Advisory Committee:
         (1)   Citizen at-large; and
         (2)   Youth representative (any resident of the Village School
District under the age of 19 years old) to serve terms of two years upon
appointment by the Village Board of Trustees at the annual organizational
meeting.
(Res. 07-05, passed 6-18-2007)
CHAPTER 5: ETHICS CODE AND EMPLOYMENT
Section
   
2-5-1   State of purpose
   
2-5-2   Definitions
   
2-5-3   Statutory stands of conduct
   
2-5-4   Responsibility of public office
   
2-5-5   Dedicated service
   
2-5-6   Fair and equal treatment
   
2-5-7   Conflict of interest
   
2-5-8   Advisory opinions
   
2-5-9   Hiring relations
   
2-5-10   Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
   
2-5-11   Sanctions
   
2-5-12   Outside employment
§ 2-5-1 STATE OF PURPOSE.
   (a)   The proper operation of democratic government requires that public
officials and employees be independent, impartial, and responsible to the
people; that government decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the
governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and
that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In
recognition of these goals, there is hereby established in this chapter a code
of ethics for all village officials and employees, whether elected or
appointed, paid or unpaid, including members of boards, committees, and
commissions of the village, as well as any individuals who are candidates for
elective office as soon as such individuals file nomination papers with the
village.
   (b)   The purpose of this ethics code is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for all such officials and employees by setting forth
those acts or actions that are compatible with the best interests of the
village, and by directing disclosure by such officials and employees of private
financial or other interests in matters affecting the village. The Village
Board believes that a code of ethics for the guidance of elected and appointed
officials and employees will help them avoid conflicts between their personal
interests and their public responsibilities, will improve standards of public
service, and will promote and strengthen the faith and confidence of the
citizens of the village in their elected and appointed officials and employees.
The Village Board hereby reaffirms that each elected and appointed village
official and employee holds his or her position as a public trust, and any
intentional effort to realize substantial personal gain through official
conduct is a violation of that trust. The provisions and purpose of this ethics
code, and such rules and regulations as may be established, are hereby declared
to be in the best interests of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 2-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANYTHING OF VALUE. Any money or property, favor, service, payment, advance,
forbearance, loan, or promise of future employment, but does not include
compensation or expense reimbursement paid by the Village, honorariums, fees,
and expenses under the standards and reporting requirements set forth in Wis.
Stats. § 19.56, campaign contributions as regulated by § 2-5-6(d), or
hospitality extended for a purpose unrelated to village business by a person
other than a firm, corporation, partnership, or joint venture.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm, enterprise,
franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual, or any other
legal entity which engages in profit-making activities.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit to the officer or employee, or to any
person employing or retaining the services of the officer or employee.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. Any interest arising from blood or marriage
relationships, or from close business or political associations, whether or not
any financial interest is involved.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. Any person excluded from the definition of a PUBLIC
OFFICIAL who is employed by the village.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Those persons serving in statutory elected or appointed
offices provided for in Wis. Stats. Chapter 61, and all members appointed to
boards, committees and commissions established or appointed by the Village
President and/or Village Board pursuant to this code of ordinances, whether
paid or unpaid.
   SIGNIFICANT INTEREST. Owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, at
least 10% or $5,000 of the outstanding stock of at least 10% or $5,000 of any
business.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 2-5-3 STATUTORY STANDS OF CONDUCT.
   There are certain provisions of the state statutes which should, while not
set forth herein, be considered an integral part of any code of ethics.
Accordingly, the provisions of the following sections of the state statutes, as
from time to time amended, are made a part of this code of ethics and shall
apply to public officials and employees whenever applicable, to wit.
   (a)   Wis. Stats. § 946.10, “Bribery of Public Officers and Employees.”
   (b)   Wis. Stats. § 946.11, “Special Privileges from Public Utilities.”
   (c)   Wis. Stats. § 946.12, “Misconduct in Public Office.”
   (d)   Wis. Stats. § 946.13, “Private Interest in Public Contract
Prohibited.”
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 2-5-4 RESPONSIBILITY OF PUBLIC OFFICE.
   Public officials and employees are agents of public purpose and hold office
for the benefit of the public. They are bound to uphold the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of the state, and carry out impartially the
laws of the nation, state, and municipality, to observe in their official acts
the highest standards of morality, and to discharge faithfully the duties of
their office regardless of personal considerations, recognizing that the public
interest must be their prime concern.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 2-5-5 DEDICATED SERVICE.
   (a)   Officials and employees should adhere to the rules of work and
performance established as the standard for their positions by the appropriate
authority.
   (b)   Officials and employees should not exceed their authority or breach
the law, or ask others to do so, and they should work in full cooperation with
other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by law or
by officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (c)   Members of the village staff are expected to follow their appropriate
professional code of ethics. Staff members shall file a copy of such
professional ethics codes with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate. The Village Board shall notify the
appropriate professional Ethics Board of any ethics violations involving
village employees covered by such professional standards.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 2-5-6 FAIR AND EQUAL TREATMENT.
   (a)   Use of public property. No official or employee shall use or permit
the unauthorized use of village-owned vehicles, equipment, materials, or
property for personal convenience or profit, except when such services are
available to the public generally or are provided as village policy for the use
of such official or employee in the conduct of official business, as authorized
by the Village Board or authorized board, commission, or committee.
   (b)   Use of village stationery. Copies of any correspondence written on
village stationery shall be filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (c)   Obligations to citizens. No official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment, or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen. No official or employee shall use or
attempt to use his or her position with the village to secure any advantage,
preference, or gain over and above his or her rightful remuneration and
benefits, for himself or herself or for a member of his or her immediate
family.
   (d)   Political contributions. No official shall personally solicit from any
village employee, other than an elected official, a contribution to a political
campaign committee for which the person subject to this chapter is a candidate
or treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-6)
§ 2-5-7 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (a)   Financial and personal interest prohibited.
      (1)   No official or employee of the village, whether paid or unpaid,
shall engage in any business or transaction, or shall act in regard to
financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible
with the proper discharge of official duties in the public interest contrary to
the provisions of this chapter, or which would tend to impair independence of
judgment or action in the performance of official duties.
      (2)   a.   Any member of the Village Board who has a financial interest
or personal interest in any proposed legislation before the Village Board shall
disclose on the records of the Village Board the nature and extent of such
interest; such official shall not participate in debate or vote for adoption or
defeat of such legislation.
         b.   If the matter before the Village Board involves a member’s
personal interest with persons involved, the member may participate in debate
or discussion and vote on the matter following disclosure, unless an ordinance
or contract is involved; if an ordinance or contract is involved, such official
shall not participate in debate or discussion and vote on the matter.
      (3)   Any non-elected official, other than a village employee, who has a
financial interest or personal interest in any proposed legislative action of
the Village Board or any board, commission, or committee upon which the
official has any influence or input or of which the official is a member that
is to make a recommendation or decision upon any item which is the subject of
the proposed legislative action shall disclose on the records of the Village
Board or the appropriate board, commission, or committee the nature and extent
of such interest. Such official shall not participate in debate or discussion
or vote for adoption or defeat of such legislation.
      (4)   Any village employee who has a financial interest or personal
interest in any proposed legislative action of the Village Board or any board,
commission, or committee upon which the employee has any influence of input, or
of which the employee is a member, that is to make a recommendation or decision
upon any item which is the subject of the proposed legislative action shall
disclose on the records of the Village Board or the appropriate board,
commission, or committee the nature and extent of such interest.
   (b)   Disclosure of confidential information. No official or employee shall,
without proper legal authorization, disclose confidential information
concerning the property, government, or affairs of the village, nor shall such
information be used to advance the financial or other private interests of the
official or employee or others.
   (c)   Incompatible employment. No official or employee shall engage in or
accept private employment or render service, for private interest, when such
employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her
official duties, or would tend to impair such official or employee’s
independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her official
duties, unless otherwise permitted by law and unless disclosure is made as
hereinafter provided.
   (d)   Gifts and favors.
      (1)   No official or employee shall accept or offer to accept anything of
value from any person who, to his or her knowledge, is interested directly or
indirectly, or is seeking an interest, directly or indirectly, in any manner
whatsoever in business dealings with the village, or from any person who
conducts activities which are regulated by the village, or from any person who
has interests which may be substantially affected by actions of the village.
      (2)   No official or employee shall accept or offer to accept anything of
value that may tend to influence such official or employee in the discharge of
his or her duties, or grant in the discharge of his or her duties any improper
favor, service, or thing of value.
      (3)   Gifts received under unusual circumstances should be referred to
the Ethics Board within ten days for recommended disposition.
      (4)   An official or employee is not to accept hospitality if, after
consideration of the surrounding circumstances, it could reasonably be
concluded that such hospitality would not be extended were it not for the fact
that the guest, or a member of the guest’s immediate family, was a village
official or employee. Participation in celebrations, grand openings, open
houses, informational meetings, and similar events are excluded from this
prohibition. This subsection (d)(4) further shall not be construed to prevent
candidates for elective office from accepting hospitality from citizens for the
purpose of supporting the candidate’s campaign.
   (e)   Representing private interests before village agencies or courts.
      (1)   Non-elected village officials and employees shall not appear on
behalf of any private person (other than himself or herself, his or her spouse,
or minor children) before any village agency, board, commission, or the Village
Board if the official or employee or any board, commission, or committee of
which the official or employee is a member has any jurisdiction, discretion, or
control over the matter which is the subject of such representation.
      (2)   Elected village officials may appear before village agencies on
behalf of constituents in the course of their duties as representatives of the
electorate or in the performance of public or civic obligations. However, the
disclosure requirements of subsection (a) above shall be applicable to such
appearances.
   (f)   Ad hoc committee exceptions. No violation of the conflict of interest
restrictions of this section shall exist, however, where an individual serves
on a special ad hoc committee charged with the narrow responsibility of
addressing a specific issue or topic in which that individual, or the employer
or a client of that individual, has an interest so long as the individual
discloses to the Village Board that such interest exists.
   (g)   Contracts with the village. No official or employee who, in his or her
capacity as such officer or employee, participates in the making of a contract
in which such officer or employee has a private pecuniary interest, direct or
indirect, or performs in regard to that contract some function requiring the
exercise of discretion on the part of such official or employee, shall enter
into any contract with the village unless:
      (1)   The contract is awarded through a process of public notice and
competitive bidding;
      (2)   The contract or activity is exempt from or otherwise deemed
appropriate by Wis. Stats. § 946.13; or
      (3)   The Ethics Board waives this requirement after determining that it
is in the best interest of the village to do so.
   (h)   Disclosure of interest in legislation. To the extent known, any member
of the Village Board who has a financial or personal interest in any proposed
legislation before the Board shall disclose on the record of the Board the
nature of and extent of such interest. Any other official or employee who has a
financial or personal interest in any proposed legislative action of the Board
and who participates in discussion with or gives official opinions or
recommendations to the Board shall disclose on the record of the Board the
nature of and extent of such interest.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 2-5-8 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   When an official or employee has doubt as to the applicability of a
provision of this section, such official or employee may apply to the Village
Attorney for an advisory opinion. The official or employee shall have the
opportunity to present his or her interpretation of the facts at issue and of
the applicability of provisions of this section before such advisory decision
is made. This section shall be operative in all instances covered by its
provisions, except when superseded by an applicable statutory provision and
statutory action is mandatory, or when the application of a statutory provision
is discretionary but determined to be more appropriate or desirable.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-8)
§ 2-5-9 HIRING RELATIONS.
   (a)   This section governs the proposed hiring of individuals for full-time
or part-time work as village employees who are members of the immediate family
of village employees or elected officials. IMMEDIATE FAMILY includes those
relatives by blood or marriage defined in §
2-5-2 as personal interests.
   (b)   Hiring an immediate family member of any current village employee or
elected village official is discouraged and will be considered only if that
individual has the knowledge and skills, experience, or other job-related
qualifications that warrant consideration for the position. It is required that
either the current employee or the relative seeking employment will make the
personal interest relationship known to the hiring authority (department head,
board, or commission, or Village Board) before a hiring decision is made; in
every case, the decision to hire an immediate family member or former spouse
will be subject to Village Board approval, with notice, before the new employee
is permitted to begin work. Marriage between two individuals already employed
by the village or their relatives will not be considered a violation of this
policy.
   (c)   This section does not apply to non-elected officials who are asked to
accept appointment as members of a village board, commission, or committee;
non-elected officials, however, will be expected to disqualify themselves from
participation in matters under consideration which may affect the hiring,
retention, classification, or compensation of their immediate family if
currently employed or being considered for employment by the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-9)
§ 2-5-10 EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.
   In the event an employee, covered under a collective bargaining agreement,
is allegedly involved in an ethics code violation, the terms and conditions set
forth in the applicable collective bargaining agreement shall prevail in the
administration and interpretation of §§
2-5-1 through
2-5-12.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-10)
§ 2-5-11 SANCTIONS.
   A determination that an employee’s actions constitute improper conduct under
the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a cause of suspension, removal
from office or employment, or other disciplinary action. Sanctions, including
any disciplinary action, that may affect employees covered under a labor
agreement will be consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in the
applicable labor agreement.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-11)
§ 2-5-12 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   No full-time officer or employee of the village shall engage in other
ongoing, significant remunerative employment within or without the village,
provided that the Village Board may approve such outside employment or activity
if it finds that it does not interfere or conflict with such officer’s ability
to perform his or her duties in an efficient and unbiased manner. Violation of
this provision shall be grounds for removal from office of any such officer or
employee.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-12)
TITLE 3: FINANCE AND PUBLIC RECORDS
Chapter
   
1.   FINANCE
   
2.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   
3.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
4.   DISPOSAL OF LOST, ABANDONED, AND SURPLUS PROPERTY
   
5.   HOTEL-MOTEL ROOM TAX
CHAPTER 1: FINANCE
Section
   
3-1-1   Preparation of tax roll and tax collections
   
3-1-2   Duplicate Treasurer’s bond eliminated
   
3-1-3   Village budget
   
3-1-4   Changes in budget
   
3-1-5   Village funds to be spent in accordance with appropriation
   
3-1-6   Fiscal year
   
3-1-7   Public depositories
   
3-1-8   Claims against village
   
3-1-9   Temporary investment of funds not immediately needed
   
3-1-10   Receiving money; receipt for same
   
3-1-11   Statement of real property status
   
3-1-12   Bidding procedures
   
3-1-13   Accounts receivable billing procedures
   
3-1-14   Annual audits
   
3-1-15   Liability of village for acts of agents
   
3-1-16   Village land sale policy
§ 3-1-1 PREPARATION OF TAX ROLL AND TAX COLLECTIONS.
   (a)   Content of tax roll. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 70.65, the
Administrator shall prepare a tax roll and include the required contents as
described in Wis. Stats. § 70.65.
   (b)   Property tax collection. All provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapter 74, in
regards to property tax collection, are adopted and by reference made a part of
this chapter with the same force and effect as though set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 70.65
§ 3-1-2 DUPLICATE TREASURER’S BOND ELIMINATED.
   (a)   Bond eliminated. The village elects not to give the bond on the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, in
his or her capacity as Treasurer, as provided for by Wis. Stats. § 70.67(1).
   (b)   Village liable for default of Treasurer. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. §
70.67(2), the village shall be obligated to pay, in case the Village
Administrator, acting as the Treasurer, shall fail to do so, all state and
county taxes required by law to be paid by such Treasurer to the County
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 70.67
§ 3-1-3 VILLAGE BUDGET.
   (a)   Departmental estimates. When requested by the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, each officer and committee
shall annually file with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, an itemized statement of disbursements made to carry
out the powers and duties of such officer or committee during the preceding
fiscal year, and a detailed statement of the receipts and disbursements on
account of any special fund under the supervision of such officer or committee
during such year, and of the conditions and management of such fund; also
detailed estimates of the same matters for the current fiscal year and for the
ensuing fiscal year. Such statements shall be presented in the form prescribed
by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, and shall be designated as “departmental estimates,” and shall be
as nearly uniform as possible for the main division of all departments.
   (b)   Consideration of estimates. The Village President or Village Board
shall consider such departmental estimates in consultation with the department
head and develop a budget amount for such department or activity.
   (c)   Form of proposed budget.
      (1)   The actual expenditures of each department and activity for the
expired portion of the current year, and last preceding fiscal year, and the
estimated expense of conducting each department and activity of the Village for
the remainder of the current year and ensuing fiscal year, with reasons for any
proposed increase or decrease as compared with actual and estimated
expenditures for the current year.
      (2)   An itemization of all anticipated income of the village from
sources other than general property taxes and bonds issued, with a comparative
statement of the amounts received by the village from each of the same or
similar sources for the last preceding and current fiscal year.
      (3)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from general
property taxes which, with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet
the proposed expenditures.
      (4)   All existing indebtedness of the village, including the amount of
interest payable and principal to be redeemed on any outstanding general
obligation bonds of the village and any estimated deficiency in the sinking
fund of any such bonds during the ensuing fiscal year.
      (5)   Such other information as may be required by the Board and by state
law.
   (d)   Copies of budget. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall provide a reasonable number of copies of the
budget summary thus prepared for distribution to citizens. The entire fiscal
budget shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, during
regular office hours.
   (e)   Report and hearing.
      (1)   The Village President and Village Board shall make a report no
later than the Board’s first November meeting. The report shall include the
estimated cost of improvements as well as the estimated cost of operating the
various departments and all other costs, including interest charges, for which
money will have to be raised by taxation during the following year.
      (2)   A summary of such budget and notice of the time and place where
such budget and detail is available for public inspection and notice of the
time and place for holding the public nearing thereon, shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village or legally posted at least 15
days prior to the time of such public hearing.
      (3)   a.   Not less than 15 days after the publication of the proposed
budget and the notice of hearing thereon, the public hearing shall be held at
the time and place stipulated, at which time any resident or taxpayer of the
village shall have an opportunity to be heard on the proposed budget.
         b.   The budget hearing may be adjourned from time to time. Following
the public hearing, the proposed appropriation ordinance may be changed or
amended and shall take the same course in the Village Board as other
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 3-1-4 CHANGES IN BUDGET.
   The amount of the tax to be levied or certified, the amounts of the various
appropriations, and the purposes thereof shall not be changed after approval of
the budget except upon the recommendation of the Village President and upon a
two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the Village Board. Notice of such
transfer shall be given by publication within eight days thereafter in the
official village newspaper.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 3-1-5 VILLAGE FUNDS TO BE SPENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROPRIATION.
   No money shall be drawn from the treasury of the village, nor shall any
obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred, except in pursuance of the
annual appropriation in the adopted budget or when changed as authorized by §
3-1-4. At the close of each fiscal year any unencumbered balance of an
appropriation shall revert to the General Fund and shall be subject to
reappropriation; but appropriations may be made by the Board, to be paid out of
the income of the current year, in furtherance of improvements or other objects
or works which will not be completed within such year, and any such
appropriation shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made
shall have been accomplished or abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 3-1-6 FISCAL YEAR.
   The calendar year shall be the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.51(3)
§ 3-1-7 PUBLIC DEPOSITORIES.
   The Village Board shall designate the public depository or depositories
within the state within which village funds shall be deposited, and when the
money is deposited in such depository in the name of the village, village
officials and bondsman shall not be liable for such losses as are defined by
state law. The interest arising therefrom shall be paid into the village
treasury. Pursuant to state law, designated public depositories shall be
required to pledge U.S. Treasury notes equal in amount to any uninsured balance
of the village’s deposit.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 62.12(7)
§ 3-1-8 CLAIMS AGAINST VILLAGE.
   (a)   Board to audit accounts. Except as provided in subsection (c) below,
no account or demand against the village shall be paid until it has been
audited by the Village Board and an order drawn on the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, therefor. Every such
account shall be itemized. After auditing, the Village Board shall cause to be
endorsed by the Administrator, over his or her hand on each account, the words
“allowed” or “disallowed,” as the fact is, adding the amount allowed, if any,
and specifying the items or parts of items disallowed, if disallowed in part
only. The minutes of the proceedings of the Board shall show to whom and for
what purpose every such account was allowed and the amount thereof. Every such
account or demand allowed in whole or in part shall be filed by the
Administrator, and those of each year shall be consecutively numbered and have
endorsed thereon the number of the order issued in payment.
   (b)   Claims to be verified. All accounts, demands, or claims against the
village shall be verified by the claimant or proper official.
   (c)   Payment of regular wages or salaries. Regular wages or salaries of
village officers and employees shall be paid by payroll, verified by the proper
village official, department head, board, or commission and filed with the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, in
time for payment on the regular pay day.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 61.51
§ 3-1-9 TEMPORARY INVESTMENT OF FUNDS NOT IMMEDIATELY NEEDED.
   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, may invest any village funds not immediately needed, pursuant to
Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0603(1m) and 219.05.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 66.04(2) and 219.05
§ 3-1-10 RECEIVING MONEY; RECEIPT FOR SAME.
   (a)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall not receive any money into the treasury from any source
except on account of taxes levied and collected during the fiscal year for
which they may then be serving, without giving a receipt therefor in the manner
specified by the Village Board.
   (b)   Upon the payment of any money (except for taxes as herein provided),
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall make out a receipt in duplicate for the money so received. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall charge
the amount thereof to the treasuiy and credit the proper account. The payment
of the money to any receiving agent of the village or to the village, or to the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall be safeguarded in such manner as the Village Board shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 66.0515
§ 3-1-11 STATEMENT OF REAL PROPERTY STATUS.
   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, are authorized to prepare a statement of real property status form
to be used to provide information often requested for transfers of real
property such as the amount of outstanding special assessments, deferred
assessments, changes in assessments, amount of taxes, outstanding water and
sewer bills, current water and sewer bills, contemplated improvements,
outstanding citations on building code violations, and similar information. Any
such information sought shall be provided to the person requesting it on said
form. Requests for statements of real property status shall be made to the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, a
minimum of one business day in advance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 3-1-12 BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Contracts, how let. All public construction, the estimated cost of
which exceeds $10,000, shall be let by contract to the lowest responsible
bidder; all other public construction shall be let as the Village Board may
direct. If the estimated cost of any public construction exceeds $5,000, but is
not greater than $10,000, the Director of Public Works shall give a Class 1
notice, under Wis. Stats. Ch. 985, of the proposed construction before the
contract for the construction is executed. The Village Board may also, by a
vote of three-fourths of all the members-elect provide, by ordinance, that any
class of public construction or any part thereof may be done directly by the
village without submitting the same for bids.
   (b)   Construction by the village. Any class of public construction may be
done directly by the village without submitting the same for bids provided that
the same is authorized by a vote of three-fourths of all members of the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 3-1-13 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE BILLING PROCEDURES.
   Billings by the village may be paid within 30 days after billing without
interest. Thereafter, interest may be charged at the rate of 1.5% per month or
any fraction thereof, until the following November 15. Bills not paid on or
before November 15 shall have added to the total amount due 1.5% of said
charges and shall be entered on the tax roll as a special charge, and become a
lien upon real estate.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13)
§ 3-1-14 ANNUAL AUDITS.
   A firm of certified public accountants shall be employed each year by the
village, subject to the confirmation of the Village Board to conduct a detailed
audit of the village’s financial transactions and its books, and to assist the
Administrator in the management of the village’s financial affairs, including
the village’s public utilities. These auditors shall be employed on a calendar-
year basis. The books audited may, in addition to the village financial records
of the office of the Administrator, include the Village Administrator’s,
Clerk’s, or highest elected official’s, as appropriate, books, the village’s
public utilities, and any other books of any boards, commission, officers, or
employees of the village handling village monies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14)
§ 3-1-15 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE FOR ACTS OF AGENTS.
   (a)   No agent of the village having authority to employ labor or to
purchase materials, supplies, or any other commodities, may bind the village or
incur any indebtedness for which the village may become liable without approval
of the Board.
   (b)   Each such employment or purchase order shall be drawn against a
specific appropriation, the money for which shall be available in the village
treasury and not subject to any prior labor claims or material purchase orders
at the time when such employment is negotiated or purchase order drawn. The
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall keep a record of such employment and purchase orders and shall charge
them against the proper appropriation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-15)
§ 3-1-16 VILLAGE LAND SALE POLICY.
   (a)   Real property owned by the village will not be sold or otherwise
conveyed to any person or entity that will cause the property to be removed
from the village properly tax rolls or who/which will convey it to another
person or entity that will cause the property to be so removed.
   (b)   The village may grant an exception to the said policy upon execution
of an agreement enforceable in the Circuit Court of Barron or Polk County which
provides for a payment in lieu of taxes and which is a covenant running with
the land. Any such agreement shall be enforceable by reverter or forfeiture of
title to the village in the event of default.
   (c)   The terms of this policy may be carried out by a reservation or
restriction in the document transferring the title, or by long-term easement,
lease or other agreement affecting the transfer of the property to any grantee.
Any such reservation, restriction, easement, lease, or other agreement shall be
a covenant running with the land enforceable in the Circuit Court of Barron or
Polk County. Any such reservation, restriction, easement, lease, or other
agreement shall be enforceable by reverter or forfeiture or the title to the
village.
   (d)   The Village Board may use village owned property as business
incentives using a basis of giving credit towards the purchase of the property
of 10% of the projected increase in evaluation of the property due to new
construction, provided the construction commences within one year.
(Res. 2004-12, passed 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 2: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
3-2-1   Village Board may levy special assessments
§ 3-2-1 VILLAGE BOARD MAY LEVY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   Pursuant to either Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0703 or 66.0701, incorporated
herein by reference as amended from time to time, the village by resolution of
its Village Board may levy and collect special assessments upon property in a
limited and determinable area for special benefits conferred upon such property
by any municipal work or improvement, and may provide for the payment of all or
any part of the cost of the work or improvement.
   (b)   The amount assessed against any property for any work or improvement
which does not represent an exercise of the police power shall not exceed the
value of the benefits accruing to the property therefrom, and for those
representing an exercise of the police power, the assessment shall be upon a
reasonable basis as determined by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0703 and 66.0701
CHAPTER 3: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
3-3-1   Definitions
   
3-3-2   Duty to maintain records
   
3-3-3   Legal custodian(s)
   
3-3-4   Public access to records
   
3-3-5   Access procedures
   
3-3-6   Limitations on right to access
   
3-3-7   Preservation on microfilm, optical disk, or in electronic format
   
3-3-8   Records retention and disposition fees
   
3-3-9   Destruction of records
   
3-3-10   Record retention, disposition schedules
§ 3-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACTUAL COST. The total cost of personnel, including wages, fringe benefits,
and all other benefits and overhead related to the time spent in search of
records, plus all expenses for paper, copier time, electronic media,
depreciation, and other supplies.
   AUTHORITY. Any of the following village entities having custody of a village
record: an office, elected official, agency, board, commission, committee,
council, department, or public body corporate and politic created by
constitution, law, ordinance, rule, or order; or a formally constituted subunit
of the foregoing.
   DISPOSITION/DESTRUCTION. Physical destruction of obsolete records by
shredding, burning, or in the case of electronic records, by deleting from,
reformatting, or destroying the tapes, disks, or other electronic media on
which the record is stored.
   LEGAL CUSTODIAN. The officer, department head, division head, or employee of
the village designated under §
3-3-3 or otherwise responsible by law to keep and preserve any village records
or file, deposit, or keep such records in his or her office, or is lawfully in
possession or entitled to possession of such public records and who is required
by this section to respond to requests for access to such records.
   RECORD. The meaning given in Wis. Stats. § 19.32(2), namely: any material on
which written, drawn, printed, spoken, visual, or electromagnetic information
or electronically generated or stored data is recorded or preserved, regardless
of physical form or characteristics, that has been created or is being kept by
an authority. RECORD includes, but is not limited to, handwritten, typed, or
printed pages, maps, charts, photographs, films, recordings, tapes, optical
discs, and any other medium on which electronically generated or stored data is
recorded or preserved. RECORD does not include drafts, notes, preliminary
computations, and like materials prepared for the originator’s personal use or
prepared by the originator in the name of a person for whom the originator is
working; materials that are purely the personal property of the custodian and
have no relation to his or her office; materials to which access is limited by
copyright, patent, or bequest; and published materials in the possession of an
authority other than a public library that are available for sale, or that are
available for inspection at a public library.
   RECORD RETENTION AND DISPOSITION SCHEDULE. The list of records set forth in
§
3-3-10, which specifies the legal custodians and the resolution period for each
type of village records.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The length of time after creation which each type of
village record shall be retained before disposition/destruction, pursuant to §
3-3-9.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-2 DUTY TO MAINTAIN RECORDS.
   (a)   Except as provided under §
3-3-7, each officer and employee of the village shall safely keep and preserve
all records received from his or her predecessor, or other persons, and
required by law to be filed, deposited, or kept in his or her office, or which
are in the lawful possession or control of the officer or employee or his or
her deputies, or to the possession or control of which he or she or they may be
lawfully entitled as such officers or employees.
   (b)   Upon the expiration of an officer’s term of office or an employee’s
term of employment, or whenever the office or position of employment becomes
vacant, each such officer or employee shall deliver to his or her successor all
records then in his or her custody, and the successor shall receipt therefor to
the officer or employee, who shall file said receipt with the Clerk. If a
vacancy occurs before a successor is selected or qualifies, such records shall
be delivered to and receipted for by the Clerk, on behalf of the successor, to
be delivered to such successor upon the latter’s receipt.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-3 LEGAL CUSTODIAN(S).
   (a)   Each elected official is the legal custodian of his or her records and
the records of his or her office, but the official may designate the Clerk to
act as the legal custodian.
   (b)   Except as provided herein, or in subsection (c) below, the Clerk, or
the Clerk’s designee, shall act as legal custodian for the village and for any
committees, commissions, boards, or other authorities created by ordinance or
resolution of the Village Board. The following offices or authorities shall
have as a legal custodian of records the individual so named.
 
Authority                                         Designated Legal Custodian
General village records (including Board records) Village Clerk
Police Department                                 Chief of Police
 
   (c)   For every authority not specified in subsections (a) and (b) above,
the authority’s chief administrative officer is the legal custodian for the
authority, but the officer may designate an employee of his or her staff to act
as the legal custodian.
   (d)   Each legal custodian shall name a person to act as legal custodian in
his or her absence or in the absence of his or her designee, and each legal
custodian shall send notice of the designated deputy to the Clerk.
   (e)   The Clerk shall establish criteria for establishing the records system
and shall cause the department/office records system to be reviewed on an
annual basis.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-4 PUBLIC ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
3-3-6 any person has a right to inspect a record and to make or receive a copy
of any record, as provided in Wis. Stat § 19.35(1).
   (b)   Records will be available for inspection and copying during all
regular office hours.
   (c)   If regular office hours are not maintained at the location where
records are kept, the records will be available for inspection and copying upon
at least 48 hours advance notice of intent to inspect or copy.
   (d)   A requester shall be permitted to use facilities comparable to those
available to village employees to inspect, copy, or abstract a record.
   (e)   The legal custodian may require supervision during inspection or may
impose other reasonable restrictions on the manner of access to an original
record if the record is irreplaceable or easily damaged.
   (f)   A requester shall be charged a fee of $0.25 per page to defray the
cost of copying records.
      (1)   If the form of a written record does not permit copying, the actual
and necessary cost of photographing and photographic processing shall be
charged.
      (2)   The actual full cost of providing a copy of other records not in
printed form on paper, such as films, computer printouts, and audio and
videotapes, shall be charged.
      (3)   If mailing or shipping is necessary, the actual cost thereof shall
also be charged.
      (4)   There shall be no charge for locating a record unless the actual
cost therefor exceeds $50, in which case the actual cost shall be determined by
the legal custodian and billed to the requester.
      (5)   The legal custodian shall estimate the cost of all applicable fees
and shall require a cash deposit adequate to assure payment, if such estimate
exceeds $5.
      (6)   Elected and appointed officials of the village shall not be
required to pay for public records they may reasonably require for the proper
performance of their official duties.
      (7)   The legal custodian may provide copies of a record without charge
or at a reduced charge where he or she determines that waiver or reduction of
the fee is in the public interest.
   (g)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.34, and the guidelines therein listed,
each authority shall adopt, prominently display and make available for
inspection and copying at its offices, for the guidance of the public, a notice
containing a description of its organization and the established times and
places at which, the legal custodian from whom, and the methods whereby, the
public may obtain information and access to records in its custody, make
requests for records, or obtain copies of records, and the costs thereof. This
subsection (g) does not apply to members of the Village Board.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-5 ACCESS PROCEDURES.
   (a)   A request to inspect or copy a record shall be made to the legal
custodian. A request shall be deemed sufficient if it reasonably describes the
requested record or the information requested. However, a request for a record
without a reasonable limitation as to subject matter or length of time
represented by the record does not constitute a sufficient request. A request
may be made orally, but a request must be in writing before an action to
enforce the request may be commenced under Wis. Stats. § 19.37. Except as
provided in subsection (c) below, no request may be refused because the person
making the request is unwilling to be identified or to state the purpose of the
request. No request may be refused because the request is received by mail,
unless prepayment of a fee is required under §
3-3-4(f)(6). A requester may be required to show acceptable identification
whenever the requested record is kept at a private residence or whenever
security reasons or federal law or regulations so require.
   (b)   Each custodian, upon request for any record, shall, as soon as
practicable and without delay, either fill the request or notify the requester
of the authority’s determination to deny the request in whole or in part and
the reasons therefor. If the legal custodian, after conferring with the Village
Attorney, determines that a written request is so general as to be unduly time
consuming, the party making the request may first be required to itemize his or
her request in a manner which would permit reasonable compliance.
   (c)   A request for a record may be denied as provided in §
3-3-6. If a request is made orally, the request may be denied orally unless a
demand for a written statement of the reasons denying the request is made by
the requester within five business days of the oral denial. If a written
request is denied in whole or in part, the requester shall receive a written
statement of the reasons for denying the request. Every written denial of a
request shall inform the requester that, if the request for the record was made
in writing, then the determination is subject to review upon petition for a
writ of mandamus under Wis. Stats. § 19.37(1), or upon application to the
attorney general or a district attorney.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-6 LIMITATIONS ON RIGHT TO ACCESS.
   (a)   As provided in Wis. Stats. § 19.36, the following records are exempt
from inspection under this chapter.
      (1)   Records specifically exempted from disclosure by state or federal
law or authorized to be exempted from disclosure by state law.
      (2)   Any record relating to investigative information obtained for law
enforcement purposes if federal law or regulations require exemption from
disclosure or if exemption from disclosure is a condition to receipt of aids by
the state.
      (3)   Computer programs and files, although the material used as input
for a computer program/file or the material produced as a product of the
computer program is subject to inspection.
      (4)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 905.08, a record or any portion of a
record containing information qualifying as a trade secret, as defined in Wis.
Stats. § 134.90(1)(c).
   (b)   As provided by Wis. Stats. § 43.30(1m), public library circulation
records may not be inspected under this section.
   (c)   In responding to a request for inspection or copying of a record which
is not specifically exempt from disclosure, the legal custodian, after
conferring with the Village Attorney, may deny the request, in whole or in
part, only if he or she determines that the harm to the public interest
resulting from disclosure would outweigh the public interest in full access to
the requested record. Examples of matters for which disclosure may be refused
include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   Records obtained under official pledges of confidentiality which
were necessary and given in order to obtain the information contained in them.
      (2)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(a), records of current
deliberations after a quasi-judicial hearing.
      (3)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(b), records of deliberations
concerning licensing or revocation of a person licensed by a board or
commission, unless such license consents to such disclosure. This subsection
(c)(3) does not apply to records of hearings or meetings where the person
licensed requests that an open session be held.
      (4)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(b) and (c), records of current
deliberations concerning employment, dismissal, promotion, demotion,
compensation, performance, or discipline of any village officer or employee, or
the investigation of charges against a village officer or employee, unless such
officer or employee consents to such disclosure.
      (5)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(d), records concerning current
strategy for crime detection or prevention.
      (6)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(e), records of current
deliberations or negotiations on the purchase of village property, investing of
village funds, or other village business whenever competitive or bargaining
reasons require nondisclosure.
      (7)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(ee) and (eg), records of
deliberations by the Board on unemployment insurance or workers compensation in
a meeting at which all employer or employee members are excluded.
      (8)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(f), financial, medical, social,
or personal histories or disciplinary data of specific persons which, if
disclosed, would be likely to have a substantial adverse effect upon the
reputation of any person referred to in such history or data.
      (9)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(g), communications between legal
counsel for the village and any officer, agent, or employee of the village,
when advice is being rendered concerning strategy with respect to current
litigation in which the village or any of its officers, agents, or employees is
or is likely to become involved, or communications which are privileged under
Wis. Stats. § 905.03.
      (10)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(h), requests for confidential
written advice from an Ethics Board, and records of advice given by such Ethics
Board on such requests.
   (d)   If a record contains information that may be made public and
information that may not be made public, the custodian of the record shall
provide the information that may be made public and delete the information that
may not be made public from the record before release. The custodian shall
confer with the Village Attorney prior to releasing any such record and shall
follow the guidance of the Village Attorney when separating out the exempt
material. If, in the judgment of the custodian and the Village Attorney, there
is no feasible way to separate the exempt material from the non-exempt material
without unreasonably jeopardizing nondisclosure of the exempt material, the
entire record shall be withheld from disclosure.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-7 PRESERVATION ON MICROFILM, OPTICAL DISK, OR IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.
   Any village officer or the director of any department or division of village
government may, subject to the approval of the Clerk, keep and preserve public
records in his or her possession by transfer to microfilm, optical disk, or
electronic format. Such records shall meet the standards set forth in Wis.
Stats. §§ 16.61(5)-(7), and 16.611 , and Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Public
Records Board, and shall be considered original records for all purposes. Such
records shall be preserved along with other files of the department or division
and shall be open to public inspection and copying according to the provisions
of state law and of §§
3-3-4 through
3-3-6.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-8 RECORDS RETENTION AND DISPOSITION FEES.
   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein, the Record Retention and
Disposition Schedule in §
3-3-10.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-9 DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS.
   (a)   Historical Society notification. As required by Wis. Stats. § 19.21(4)
(a), the State Historical Society of Wisconsin shall be notified at least 60
days prior to the destruction of any records. Should the SHSW decline the
records and/or waive the notification requirement, the village shall notify the
local historical group of records to be destroyed, currently, the Greater
Turtle Lake Area Association (GTLAA), and if the GTLAA declines the records,
the village shall notify the County Historical Museums in Barron and Polk
Counties, at least 30 days prior to the destruction of any records.
   (b)   Public notice. Prior to destruction, a notice shall be published in
the village’s official newspaper at least once, unless a Class II notice is
prescribed by law, which shall include the category of records to be destroyed,
brief description of the type of record scheduled to be destroyed, dates and
times that the records are available for public inspection, and the expected
date of destruction.
   (c)   Destruction pending litigation. No record subject to pending
litigation shall be destroyed until the litigation is resolved and permission
is obtained from the village’s Attorney.
   (d)   Nonutility records. Village officers or employees may destroy any
nonutility financial records of which they are the legal custodians and which
are considered obsolete, after completion of any required audit by the
Department of Revenue or an auditor licensed under Wis. Stats. Chapter 442, but
not until the retention period specified in the record retention and
disposition schedule in §
3-3-8 for that record has expired.
   (e)   Utility records. Village officers or employees may destroy any utility
records of which they are the legal custodians and which are considered
obsolete after completion of any required audit by the Bureau of Municipal
Audit or an auditor licensed under Wis. Stats. Chapter 442, subject to State
Public Service Commission regulations, but not until the retention period
specified in the record retention and disposition schedule in §
3-3-8 for that record has expired.
   (f)   Obsolete records. Village officers or employees may destroy any
records of which they are the legal custodian and which are considered
obsolete, but not until the retention period specified in the record retention
and disposition schedule in §
3-3-8 for that record has expired.
   (g)   Election materials. Notwithstanding the above provisions appearing in
this section, it is intended hereby that election materials may be destroyed
according to lesser time schedules as made and provided in Wis. Stats. § 7.23.
   (h)   Public records. This ordinance shall not be construed to authorize the
destruction of any public record after a period shorter than that prescribed by
state statute or administrative rules.
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 3-3-10 RECORD RETENTION, DISPOSITION SCHEDULES.
VILLAGE OF TURTLE LAKE RECORD RETENTION AND DISPOSITION SCHEDULE
VILLAGE OF TURTLE LAKE RECORD RETENTION AND DISPOSITION SCHEDULE
ADMINISTRATIVE RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     Agendas                                                                       7 years
Clerk     Board meeting audio/video recordings                                          90 days after approval of written minutes then destroy or erase (if
                                                                                        only purpose to assist in minute writing)
Clerk     Fidelity bonds, fidelity bond book                                            5 years after expiration
Clerk     Legal opinions (Village Attorney interpretation of statutes and ordinances    Permanent
          kept for future reference)
Clerk     Minute book                                                                   Permanent or transfer to SHSW
Clerk     Oaths of office                                                               5 years after term
Clerk     Ordinance Book with attached affidavits of ordinance publication              Permanent or transfer to SHSW
Clerk     Resolutions                                                                   Permanent or transfer to SHSW
County    Treasurer’s fidelity bond                                                   5 years after expiration
Clerk     Village-owned real property records                                           Permanent
LICENSE/PERMIT RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
          All other license/permits specified elsewhere in schedule, including
Clerk     amplified device permits, street use permits, direct seller permits, kennel   3 years
          licenses, and the like
Clerk     Dog/cat license reports                                                       3 years
Clerk     Liquor, beer, cigarette license applications, records                         4 years*
Clerk     Operator, provisional, and temporary server licenses                          4 years*
Clerk     Rental housing licenses                                                       7 years after property no longer has rental units
Treasurer Liquor, beer, and cigarette license receipts                                  7 years
MUNICIPAL BORROWING RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     Bond procedure records, registers, cancelled bonds, coupons, promissory       7 years after bond issue has expired
          notes, certificates of destruction
ELECTION RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     All election materials and records                                            As prescribed by Wis. Stats. § 7.23 the Government Accountability
                                                                                        Board’s current “Election Administration Manual”
FINANCIAL RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     Annual reports, annual CT financial reports                                   Permanent or transfer to SHSW
Clerk     Budget worksheets                                                             3 years
Clerk     Final budget                                                                  Permanent
Clerk     Voucher journal (record of original entry)                                    15 years
Clerk     Purchase invoices, purchase orders, voucher stubs, bank statements and        7 years after payment or receipt of funds
          reconciliations
Treasurer Accounts receivable invoices                                                  7 years and destroy after payment or receipt of funds
Treasurer Duplicate deposit slips                                                       1 year
Treasurer Receipts, bank statements and reconciliations, investment records             7 years
Treasurer Receipts journal (record of original entry)                                   15 years
ASSESSMENT RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Assessor  Assessor’s final report                                                     5 years after info has been
Assessor  Assessor’s final report supplement                                          5 years
Assessor  Certificate of ORAP valuations PC-219                                         10 years
Assessor  Deeds (copies)                                                                1 year after transfer to Master Property Record Folder and destroy
Assessor  Index to owners, aerial photographs                                           Retain until superseded
Assessor  List of Beekeepers, Request for Exemption of Merchandise in Storage,          3 years
          Statement of Merchandise Exempted
Assessor  Master property record folders                                                5 years beyond structure life, then transfer to SHSW
Assessor  Notice of increased assessment                                                7 years
          Occupational tax returns, merchants’, professions’ statement of property,
Assessor  personal property worksheets/farmers and personal property not used for the   5 years
          production of income, report of inventory location (Form 10)*, Assessor’s
          personal property summary worksheet
Assessor  Plats, certified surveys, Assessor’s plats                                  Permanent
Assessor  State Real Estate Transfer Returns                                            Transferred to the Master Property Record Folder and destroy
Clerk     Assessment roll, statement of assessment PA-521, final statement of           Permanent
          assessment PA-52 IC
Clerk     Board of review minute book                                                   7 years and transfer to SHSW
Clerk     Building permit applications (copies)                                         1 year after transfer to Master Property Record Folder and destroy
Clerk     Form of objection to property assessment, BOR audio tapes, BOR notices of     7 years after completion
          determination
Clerk     Special assessment final resolutions                                          Permanent
Clerk     Special assessment records (except resolutions)                               7 years
Clerk     Tax exemption reports                                                         10 years
TAX RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     Final levy worksheet SL-202                                                   5 years
Clerk     Final statement of taxes PA-632A                                              Permanent or transfer to SHSW
Clerk     Tax levy certifications of school district clerks, certificates of            3 years
          apportionment
Treasurer Escrow account list                                                           Retain until superseded
Treasurer Real and personal property tax roll                                           15 years and transfer to SHSW if postponed or delinquent taxes are
                                                                                        not transferred to the County Treasurer
Treasurer State shared revenue notices other state and county revenue notices           6 years
          Statements of new special assessments PC-506, tax credit certifications PC-
Treasurer 201 & PC-201 A, tax settlement receipt PC-502, Municipal Treasurer’s        5 years
          settlement PC-501
Treasurer Statement of taxes remaining unpaid                                           Retain with tax roll
Treasurer Tax collection receipts                                                       15 years
PUBLIC WORKS RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     Aerial photographs                                                            Retain until superseded
          Bid notices and affidavits of publication (if required), all bids successful
Clerk     and unsuccessful, all contracts, all certificates of insurance, all other     7 years after contract expiration
          related records
Clerk     Final subdivision plats, annexation plats, fire number, and address change    Permanent
          file
Clerk     Inventory of Village Hall, Maintenance Building, and other village storage    Retain until superseded
          buildings
Clerk     Maps, map indexes, surveying records, excavation plans                        Permanent
Clerk     Permits for excavation of streets by private utility companies                3 years
Clerk     Petitions for street and sanitary systems, vehicle usage reports              2 years
Clerk     Preliminary subdivision plats                                                 Retain until superseded by the final plat
Clerk     State Highway Aids program records                                            7 years
Clerk     Street maintenance and repair records                                         25 years
Clerk     Street vacations and dedications, copies                                      Retain for active reference life
Clerk     Structure plans for municipal buildings and bridges                           Retain for life of the structure and transfer to the SHSW
Clerk     Tree planting, inspection, trimming, and removal records                      25 years
PAYROLL RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     All other payroll related records                                             5 years*
Clerk     Department of Revenue WT-6,WT-7 records                                       5 years*
Clerk     Employee time sheets                                                          2 years
Clerk     IRS I-9 records, IRS 1099 records                                             5 years*
Clerk     IRS W-2, W-3, 941 records                                                     5 years*
Clerk     IRS W-4 records, IRS W-9 records                                              5 years after being superseded*
Clerk     State Unemployment tax and wage reports                                       5 years*
MUNICIPAL COURT RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Clerk     Court Clerk and Judge’s bond and oath                                       5 years after term
Court     Closed cases - all court case documents for the Village of Almena and Town of 7 years and transfer to Village of Almena Clerk or Town of Almena
Clerk     Almena                                                                        Clerk
Court     Closed cases - citations, parking tickets, dockets, notice to defendant, and  7 years*
Clerk     other case related documents
Court     Court receipts, financial reports, and TRIP/collection reports                7 years after case is closed*
Clerk
Court     Expired suspensions and cases that are uncollectable due to the age of the    7 years*
Clerk     case and last correspondence to defendant
OTHER RECORDS
Custodian Record                                                                        Retention Period
Any       Any record subject to litigation, claim, audit, or other action               Until permission to destroy obtained by Village Attorney
Any       Correspondence                                                                3 years
Any       Unlisted records                                                              7 years (unless added by amendment)
Notes to Table:
SHSW-State Historical Society of Wisconsin
*Records require security if they contain personal identity information.
 
(Ord. 3-3-1 to 3-3-9, passed 4-18-2016)
CHAPTER 4: DISPOSAL OF LOST, ABANDONED, AND SURPLUS PROPERTY
Section
   
3-4-1   Disposal of surplus village property
   
3-4-2   Lost and abandoned property
§ 3-4-1 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      SURPLUS VILLAGE PROPERTY. Property which is owned by the village and
which has no further usefulness to the village. An item of property shall be
considered to have no further usefulness when (SURPLUS PROPERTY, as defined in
this section, shall not include land or buildings but shall include fixtures
and such salvage as may be taken from a building without structural damage when
such fixtures and salvage are not part of a demolition contract. SURPLUS
VILLAGE PROPERTY shall not include property which is obtained by the village as
a result of abandonment or loss by the property’s original owner. SURPLUS
VILLAGE PROPERTY shall not include items of property which are traded in for
newer items):
         a.   The item or its function has been totally replaced by other
village property and no probable future function exists for it;
         b.   The village no longer performs the service for which the item was
purchased, and no other service can reasonably be provided by the item; or
         c.   The item is no longer able to reliably or economically perform
the work required of it.
   (b)   Determination of surplus village property.
      (1)   Whenever an item of village property is determined to be surplus
village property on the basis that the village no longer performs the service
for which the item was purchased, the Village Board shall determine whether or
not the item is surplus village property.
      (2)   Whenever the fair market value of the item is more than $5,000, the
Village Board shall determine whether or not the item is surplus village
property.
   (c)   Disposition of surplus village property.
      (1)   Whenever the Village Board determines that an item of property is
surplus village property, it shall dispose of such property as it determines.
      (2)   Whenever the fair market value of an item is more than $500 and the
Village Board has determined, pursuant to the previous subsection (a) above,
that the item is surplus village property, the department head responsible for
the items shall dispose of the property by:
         a.   Donation to a non-profit organization within the village or to a
governmental agency;
         b.   Public auction;
         c.   Sale by sealed bid; or
         d.   Negotiated sale.
      (3)   In the event of a public auction or sale by sealed bid, the item
will be sold in “as is” condition to the person submitting the highest bid
provided, however, that a lower bid submitted by a non-profit organization or
governmental agency may be accepted by the Village Board. The department head
responsible for the item shall determine the time in which the successful
bidder must remove the item. In the event the item is not removed within that
time, the item shall revert to the village and the amount of the bid shall be
forfeited to the village. In the event no bids are received, the item shall be
disposed of as directed by the Village Board.
      (4)   No public auction or awarding of bids shall occur under this
chapter unless a description of the item to be sold and an advance notice of
the time and place for such auction or bid submission is first published as a
Class 2 notice in the official village newspaper.
      (5)   Whenever the fair market value of an item is $500 or less and the
Village Board has determined, pursuant to the previous section, that it is
surplus village property, the item shall be either disposed of as set forth in
subsection (c)(2) above or destroyed.
   (d)   Determination of fair market values. Whenever this chapter requires a
determination of the fair market value of an item of property, that
determination shall be made by the department head responsible for the
property, whose decision shall be final.
   (e)   Authority to dispose of property.
      (1)   Except for library materials used by the public library for lending
purposes, only the Village Board may dispose of village property which is not
surplus village property.
      (2)   Whenever this section provides for an auction or other disposition
of any property, the Village Board shall be authorized to hire an auctioneer or
take such other action as is necessary to properly dispose of the property
provided, however, that the fees of such auctioneer and all such costs, other
than those for village labor and the use of village property, do not exceed the
payment received by the village from the auction or sale of the property.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 3-4-2 LOST AND ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (a)   Village custody of lost, abandoned, or seized property.
      (1)   Property which appears to be lost or abandoned, discovered by
officers, or turned in to the Police Department by citizens, or turned in to
the Police Department by other village employees or departments, shall be
disposed of according to this section.
      (2)   Property seized by the Police Department pursuant to a search
warrant or seized without a search warrant shall be disposed of according to
this section, including any obsolete evidence.
      (3)   All property covered by this section will be examined by the Police
Department for identifying marks in an attempt to determine the owner, if the
owner is not otherwise known. If identifying marks are present and the Police
Department is reasonably able to determine who the owner may be through such
identifying marks, the Police Department shall make reasonable efforts to
notify the owner that the property is in the custody of the Police Department
and may be claimed by contacting the Police Department and providing sufficient
proof of ownership, except that property specified in subsections (b)(1) and
(b)(2) below shall be disposed of as provided in those subsections. If no claim
for ownership is made within 30 days of the date of such notice, the property
shall be disposed of according to this section. If no identifying marks are
present or the Police Department is unable to reasonably determine who the
owner may be, the property shall be taken into custody by the Police Department
and disposed of according to this section.
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no village
employee shall keep for his or her own use property found in the course of duty
or take possession of property during off-duty hours when the discovery was
made while on duty.
      (5)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no village
employee shall receive any lost, stolen, abandoned, or other unclaimed property
from the Police Department, unless that person receives a written receipt
signed by the Chief of Police, a copy of which shall remain with the Village
Clerk.
      (6)   The Chief of Police shall permit citizens to claim lost or
abandoned property if they can provide sufficient proof that they are rightful
owners.
   (b)   Disposal procedures. Each class of abandoned, lost, or seized property
shall be disposed of as follows.
      (1)   Firearms and ammunition. If a firearm or ammunition is not required
for evidence or use in further investigation and has not been disposed of
pursuant to a court order at the completion of a criminal action or proceeding,
the firearm or ammunition may be returned to the rightful owner, except that
the firearm or ammunition shall not be returned to any person who committed a
crime or ordinance violation under this code involving the use of the firearm
or ammunition, and the firearm or ammunition shall not be returned to the owner
if he or she had prior knowledge of and gave consent to the commission of a
crime. In this section, CRIME includes an act committed by a juvenile or
incompetent adult which would have been a crime if the act had been committed
by a competent adult.
         a.   If a firearm or ammunition was seized pursuant to a warrant or
seized without a warrant in a criminal action, investigation, or proceeding,
the Police Department shall make reasonable efforts to notify all persons who
have or may have an authorized, rightful ownership interest in the firearm or
ammunition that any person claiming the right to possession of the firearm or
ammunition may, within 30 days of the date of such notice, apply for its return
to the circuit court for the county in which the firearm or ammunition was
seized or where the search warrant was returned, pursuant to Wis. Stats. §
968.20. If, within 30 days after such notice, an application under Wis. Stats.
§ 968.20, is not made, the seized firearm or ammunition shall be shipped to and
become the property of the State Crime Laboratory.
         b.   In all other cases, the Police Department shall make reasonable
efforts to notify the rightful owner of the firearm or ammunition that the
owner may apply for the return of the firearm or ammunition by contacting the
Village Police Department within 30 days of such notice and providing
sufficient proof of ownership. If the rightful owner fails to contact the
Police Department within 30 days of such notice or fails to provide sufficient
proof of ownership, the firearm or ammunition shall be shipped to and become
the property of the State Crime Laboratories.
      (2)   Illegal or contraband property. Property which cannot be legally
possessed shall be destroyed.
      (3)   Other classes of property. All other property which has been seized
by the Police Department pursuant to a search warrant or without a search
warrant, abandoned, lost, or remained unclaimed for a period of 30 days after
the taking of possession of the same by the village shall be disposed of as
follows, except that if the property is usable for village operations, the
property need not be sold at auction but may become the property of the
village, and except that the Village Board, in its discretion, may allow the
finder of any lost property to retain a portion of that property.
         a.   Vehicles. Vehicles shall be disposed of as set forth in the
applicable provisions of
Title 10, Chapter 5, of the code.
         b.   Intoxicating liquor and fermented malt beverages. Intoxicating
liquor and fermented malt beverages shall be destroyed.
         c.   Explosives, flammable, or other material proving a danger to life
or property. Any explosive, flammable, or other material proving a danger to
life or property may be disposed of immediately upon taking possession thereof.
The Chief of Police and the Fire Chief are hereby authorized to determine the
disposal procedure; provided, however, that any such procedure will attempt to
return to its rightful owner any such material which appears to have been
stolen and which has a commercial value in normal business and does not pose an
immediate threat to life or property.
         d.   Property with a fair market value of $100 or less. An item of
property with a fair market value of $100 or less may be disposed of by the
Chief of Police, or the department head responsible for the item, by donation
to a non-profit organization or to a governmental agency; public auction; sale
by sealed bid; or negotiated sale. Perishable property which deteriorates to a
fair market value of less than $100 shall be destroyed.
         e.   Property with a fair market value of over $100. An item of
property with a fair market value of more than $100 shall be sold at public
auction or by sealed bid.
         f.   Village Treasury. Cash or other money shall be paid into the
Village Treasury, if, after posting notice in two locations in the village for
two weeks, no person has made a bona fide claim to the cash. The determination
of whether a claim is bona fide shall be in the sole discretion of the Chief of
Police. If the Chief of Police determines that a claim is bona fide, the cash
shall be repaid to the claimant.
   (c)   Disposal by auction or sealed bid.
      (1)   Whenever any property under this section is sold by public auction
or sale by sealed bid, such auction or the awarding of bids shall be preceded
by a Class 2 notice describing the property and arranging the time and place
for the auction or bid submission; such notice shall be published in the
official village newspaper. The property auctioned or sold by sealed bid shall
be sold in an “as is” condition to the highest bidder. No sale or auction shall
occur until the Chief of Police has determined that the property has no value
to any probable investigation or legal proceeding. The department head
responsible for the property shall determine the time in which the successful
bidder shall remove the property. In the event the property is not removed
within that time, the property shall revert to the village and the amount of
the bid be forfeited to the village. Any village official selling property
under this Section shall maintain for two years an inventory of any property
not disposed of by auction or sale by sealed bid and shall include a record of
the date and method of disposal, any payment received for the property, and the
name and address of the person acquiring the property.
      (2)   All sums received from the sale of property under this section
shall be paid to the Village Treasury.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 5: HOTEL-MOTEL ROOM TAX
Section
   
3-5-1   Definitions
   
3-5-2   Imposition of tax
   
3-5-3   Collection of tax
   
3-5-4   Security required
   
3-5-5   Records to be maintained
   
3-5-6   Confidentially required
   
3-5-7   Penalties
§ 3-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Has the meaning as defined in Wis. Stats. § 77.51(11)(a),
(b), and (c), insofar as applicable. Any federal or state tax exempt
transactions shall not be included in the definition of GROSS RECEIPTS.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which the public may
obtain accommodations for a consideration, including, without limitation, such
establishments as inns, motels, tourist homes, tourist houses or courts, bed
and breakfast establishments, lodging houses, rooming houses, summer camps,
apartment hotels, resort lodges, and cabins, and any other building or group of
buildings in which accommodations are available to the public, except
accommodations rented for a continuous period of more than one month and
accommodations furnished by any hospital, sanitoriums, or nursing homes or by
corporations or associations organized and operated exclusively for religious,
charitable, or educational purposes provided that no part of the net earnings
of such corporations and associations inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
   TRANSIENT. Any person residing for a continuous period of less than one
month in a hotel, motel, or other furnished accommodations available to the
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1)
§ 3-5-2 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (a)   Tax imposed. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0615, a tax is hereby
imposed on the privilege and service of furnishing, at retail, of rooms or
lodging to transients by hotel keepers, motel operators and other persons
furnishing accommodations that are available to the public, irrespective of
whether membership is required for the use of the accommodations. Such tax
shall be at the rate of 4% of the gross receipts from such retail furnishing of
rooms or lodgings. Such tax shall not be subject to the selective sales tax
imposed by Wis. Stats. § 77.52(2)(a)1.
   (b)   Utilization of room taxes collected. The Village Board, in adopting
and establishing this specific form of taxation, recognizes the positive
economic impact of the tourism industry on the entire community and its general
welfare and does state as its policy commitment that a sum equal to 50% of the
room tax collected shall be utilized directly for the promotion of tourism and
economic development in this locality.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 3-5-3 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (a)   Administration by Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate.
      (1)   This tax shall be administered by the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate. The tax imposed by §
3-5-2 for each calendar month is due and payable on the last day of the month
following the calendar month for which the tax is imposed. A return shall be
filed monthly with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, by those furnishing, at retail, such rooms and
lodging on or before the same date on which such tax is due and payable. Such
return shall show the gross receipts of the preceding calendar month from such
retail furnishing of rooms and/or lodging, the amount of taxes imposed for such
period, and such other information as the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, deems necessary, provided it is
directly related to the tax.
      (2)   Every person required to file such monthly returns shall also file
an annual calendar year return which shall be filed within 30 days of the close
of each calendar year. The annual return shall summarize the monthly returns,
reconcile, and adjust for errors in the monthly returns, and shall contain
certain such additional information as the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, requires, provided it is directly
related to the tax. All monthly and annual returns shall be signed by the
person or persons required to file a return, or his or her duly authorized
agent, but need not be verified by oath.
   (b)   Application for permit. For each place of business, every person
furnishing rooms or lodging under this chapter, for the purpose of identifying
such business, shall file an application with the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, for a permit to operate a hotel or
motel as defined in this chapter. Every application for permit shall be made
upon a form prescribed by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, and shall set forth the name under which the
applicant transacts or intends to transact business, the location of his or her
place of business and such other information as the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, requires. The application
shall be signed by the owner, if a sole proprietor and, if not a sole
proprietor, by the person authorized to act on behalf of such seller. At the
time of making an application, the applicant shall pay to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, a fee of $1.
Once issued, such permits need not be renewed. Permits shall be subject to
suspension and revocation for violations of any provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Permits not assignable. After compliance with subsection (b) above,
the Village Board shall approve and the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall issue a separate permit to each
applicant for each place of business within the village. Such permit is not
assignable and is valid only for the person in whose name it is issued and for
the transaction of business at the place designated therein.
   (d)   Right of hearing upon denial. The Village Board shall grant or deny an
application for a permit no later than 45 days after application. If the
application for a permit is denied, the applicant shall be given written notice
of the reasons for denial and shall be given an opportunity to be heard
thereon. If the applicant desires a public hearing, he or she shall file a
written request therefor with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, and the Village Board shall hold a public
hearing thereon no later than the second Village Board meeting following filing
of the request for hearing.
   (e)   Suspension and revocation of permit.
      (1)   Any permit issued hereunder may be suspended or revoked by the
Village Board for a violation of any provision of this chapter. The permittee
shall be given notice of the reasons for the suspension or revocation and
opportunity to be heard before the Village Board for the purpose of determining
whether such suspension shall be imposed or whether the permit shall be
revoked. Upon sworn, written complaint of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, filed with the Village
Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest elected official’s, as appropriate, office
alleging that a person holding a permit under this chapter has violated this
chapter, the Village Board shall issue a summons signed by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and directed
to any peace officer in the village. The summons shall command the permittee
complained of to appear before the municipal governing body on a day and place
named in the summons, not less than three days and not more than ten days from
the date of issuance, and show cause why his or her permit should not be
revoked or suspended. The summons and a copy of the complaint shall be served
on the permittee at least three days before the time at which the permittee is
commanded to appear. Service shall be in the manner provided under Wis. Stats.
Chapter 801 for service in civil actions in circuit court.
      (2)   If the permittee does not appear as required by the summons, the
allegations of the complaint shall be taken as true; and if the municipal
governing body finds the allegations sufficient, the permit shall be revoked.
The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall give notice of the revocation to the person whose permit is revoked. If
the permittee appears as required by the summons and denies the complaint, both
the complainant and the permittee may produce witnesses, cross-examine
witnesses, and be represented by counsel. The permittee shall be provided a
written transcript of the hearing at his or her expense. If, upon the hearing,
the municipal governing body finds the complaint to be true, the permit shall
either be suspended or revoked. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, shall give notice of the suspension or
revocation to the person whose permit is suspended or revoked. If the municipal
governing body finds the complaint untrue, the proceeding shall be dismissed
without cost to the accused. Upon suspension or revocation, the permittee shall
surrender his or her permit to the Village Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest
elected official’s, as appropriate, office.
   (f)   Report due upon sale or conveyance of business. If any person liable
for any amount of tax under this section sells out his or her business or stock
of goods or quits the business, his or her successors or assigns shall withhold
sufficient of the purchase price to pay such amount until the former owner
produces a receipt from the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, that such tax has been paid for or a certificate
stating that no amount is due. If a person subject to the tax imposed by this
section fails to withhold such amount of tax from the sale price and such tax
remains unpaid, the buyer and seller shall be jointly responsible for the
payment of such tax.
   (g)   Audit of returns.
      (1)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, may, by field or office audit, determine the tax required to be
paid to the Village or the refund due to any person under this chapter. The
determination may be made upon the basis of the facts contained in the return
being audited or on the basis of any other information within the Village
Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest elected official’s, as appropriate,
possession or knowledge. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, is authorized to examine and inspect the books,
records, memoranda, and property of any person in order to verify the tax
liability of that person or another person. Nothing herein shall prevent the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, from
making a determination of tax at any time.
      (2)   No refund or modification of the payment determined shall be
granted until the person files a correct room tax return and permits the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, to
inspect and audit his or her financial records.
   (h)   Failure to comply with request to audit. Any person who fails to
comply with a request by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, to inspect and audit financial records pursuant to
this chapter shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than 3% nor more than
5% of the tax due, together with the costs of prosecution, and in default of
payment thereof, to imprisonment in the County Jail until such costs and
forfeitures have been paid, but not to exceed 60 days.
   (i)   Penalty for untimely returns. If any person fails to timely file a
return, as required by this chapter, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall make an estimate of the amount
of the gross receipts under this section. Such estimate shall be made for the
period for which such person failed to make a return and shall be based upon
any information which is in the Village Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest
elected official’s, as appropriate, possession, or may come into his or her
possession. On the basis of this estimate, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall compute and determine the
amount required to be paid to the village, adding to the sum thus arrived at a
penalty equal to 10% thereof. One or more such determinations may be made for
one or more than one period.
   (j)   Interest on unpaid taxes. All unpaid taxes under this chapter shall
bear interest at the rate of 1% per month from the due date of the return until
the first day of the month following the month in which the tax was paid.
   (k)   Delinquent tax returns. Delinquent tax returns shall be subject to a
$10 late filing fee. The tax imposed by this chapter shall become delinquent if
not paid on the last day of the month next succeeding the calendar quarter for
which imposed.
   (l)   Failure to pay tax. Any person who fails to pay the room tax
prescribed by this chapter shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than
15% nor more than 25% of the tax due, together with the costs of prosecution,
and in default of payment thereof, to imprisonment in the County Jail until
such costs and forfeitures have been paid, but not to exceed 90 days.
   (m)   Fraudulent returns. If a person files a false or fraudulent return
with the intent in either case to defeat or evade the tax imposed by this
section, a penalty of 50% shall be added to the tax required to be paid
exclusive of interest and other penalties.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 3-5-4 SECURITY REQUIRED.
   In the event that any person fails to timely file a return, as required by
this chapter, or fails to timely pay his or her tax liability as required by
this chapter, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, may require such person to place security, not to exceed $5,000,
with the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4)
§ 3-5-5 RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   Every person liable for the tax imposed by this section shall keep or cause
to be kept such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such
form as the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, and this chapter shall require.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5)
§ 3-5-6 CONFIDENTIALLY REQUIRED.
   All tax returns, schedules, exhibits, writings, or audit reports relating to
such returns on file with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, are deemed to be confidential.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6)
§ 3-5-7 PENALTIES.
   Any violation of, or noncompliance with, any of the provisions of this
chapter for which a penalty has not been prescribed herein shall subject the
violator to a forfeiture of not less than $100, nor more than $500, together
with the costs of prosecution, and in default of payment thereof, to
imprisonment in the County Jail until such forfeiture has been paid, but not to
exceed 60 days. Each day of violation or noncompliance shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-7)
TITLE 4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCEDURES
Chapter
   
1.   REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS
CHAPTER 1: REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS
Section
   
4-1-1   Review of administrative determinations
   
4-1-2   Determinations reviewable
   
4-1-3   Determinations not subject to review
   
4-1-4   Municipal authority defined
   
4-1-5   Persons aggrieved
   
4-1-6   Reducing determination to writing
   
4-1-7   Request for review of determination
   
4-1-8   Reviewable determination
   
4-1-9   Administrative appeal
   
4-1-10   Hearing on administrative appeal
   
4-1-11   Final determination
   
4-1-12   Judicial review
   
4-1-13   Legislative review
§ 4-1-1 REVIEW OF ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by an administrative determination of the Village
Board or a board, commission, committee, agency, officer, or employee of the
village or agent acting on its behalf may have such determination reviewed as
provided in this chapter.
   (b)   The remedies under this chapter shall not be exclusive, but an
election to proceed hereunder shall be an election of remedies.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.01
§ 4-1-2 DETERMINATIONS REVIEWABLE.
   The following determinations are reviewable under this chapter.
   (a)   The grant or denial in whole or in part after application of an
initial permit, license, right, privilege, or authority, except a fermented
malt beverage or intoxicating liquor license.
   (b)   The suspension, revocation, or nonrenewal of an existing permit,
license right, privilege, or authority, except as provided in §
4-1-3(d).
   (c)   The denial of a grant of money or other thing of value under a statute
or ordinance prescribing conditions of eligibility for such grant.
   (d)   The imposition of a penalty or sanction upon any person except a
municipal employee or officer, other than by a court.
   (e)   The suspension or removal of a village officer or employee except as
provided in §
4-1-3(b) and (g).
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.02
§ 4-1-3 DETERMINATIONS NOT SUBJECT TO REVIEW.
   The following determinations are not reviewable under this chapter.
   (a)   A legislative enactment. (A LEGISLATIVE ENACTMENT is an ordinance,
resolution, or adopted motion of the Village Board.)
   (b)   Any action subject to administrative or judicial review procedures
under state statutes or other provisions of this code.
   (c)   The denial of a tort or contract claim for money required to be filed
with the village under Wis. Stats. § 62.25.
   (d)   The grant, denial, suspension, or revocation of a fermented malt
beverage license or intoxicating liquor license under Wis. Stats. Chapter 125.
   (e)   Judgments and orders of a court.
   (f)   Determinations made during municipal labor negotiations.
   (g)   Determinations subject to grievance, arbitration, or other procedures
provided in collective bargaining agreements.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.03
§ 4-1-4 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY DEFINED.
   MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY includes the Village Board, commission, committee,
agency, officer, employee, or agent of the village making a determination under
§
4-1-1, and every person, committee, or agency of the village to make an
independent review under §
4-1-8(b).
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.05
§ 4-1-5 PERSONS AGGRIEVED.
   A person aggrieved includes any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or public or private organization; or officer, department, board,
commission, or agency of the village, whose rights, duties, or privileges are
adversely affected by a determination of a municipal authority. No department,
board, commission, agency, officer, or employee of the village who is aggrieved
may initiate review under this chapter of a determination of any other
department, board, commission, agency, officer, or employee of the village, but
may respond or intervene in a review proceeding under this chapter initiated by
another.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 68.01 and 68.06
§ 4-1-6 REDUCING DETERMINATION TO WRITING.
   If a determination subject to this chapter is made orally or, if in writing,
does not state the reasons therefore, the municipal authority making such
determination shall, upon written request of any person aggrieved by such
determination made within ten days of notice of such determination, reduce the
determination and the reasons therefor to writing, and mail or deliver such
determination and reasons to the person making the request. The determination
shall be dated, and shall advise such person of his or her right to have such
determination reviewed, that such review may be obtained within 30 days, and
the officer or person to whom a request for review shall be addressed.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.07
§ 4-1-7 REQUEST FOR REVIEW OF DETERMINATION.
   Any person allegedly aggrieved may have a written or oral determination
reviewed by written request mailed or delivered to the municipal authority
which made such determination within 30 days of notice to such person of such
determination. The request for review shall state the grounds upon which the
person allegedly aggrieved contends that the determination should be modified
or reversed. A request for review shall be made to the officer, employee,
agent, agency, committee, board, commission, or body who made the
determination, but failure to make such request to the proper party shall not
preclude the person aggrieved from review unless such failure has caused
prejudice to the municipal authority.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.08
§ 4-1-8 REVIEWABLE DETERMINATION.
   (a)   Initial determination. If a request for review is made under §
4-1-7, the determination to be reviewed shall be termed an initial
determination.
   (b)   Who shall make review. A review under this section may be made by the
officer, employee, agent, agency, committee, board, commission, or body who
made the initial determination. However, an independent review of such
determination by another person, committee, or agency of the village, appointed
by the Village President without confirmation, shall be provided if
practicable.
   (c)   When to make review. The municipal authority shall review the initial
determination within 15 days of receipt of a request for review. The time for
review may be extended by agreement with the person allegedly aggrieved.
   (d)   Right to present evidence and argument. The person aggrieved may file
with his or her request for review, or within the time agreed with the
municipal authority, written evidence and argument in support of his or her
position with respect to the initial determination.
   (e)   Decisions on review. The municipal authority may affirm, reverse, or
modify the initial determination and shall mail or deliver to the person
aggrieved a copy of the municipal authority’s decision on review which shall
state the reasons for such decision. The decision shall advise the person
aggrieved of his or her right to appeal the decision, that appeal may be taken
within 30 days, and the office or person with whom notice of appeal shall be
filed.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.09
§ 4-1-9 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   (a)   From initial determination or decision on review.
      (1)   If the person aggrieved had a hearing substantially in compliance
with §
4-1-10 when the initial determination was made, he or she may elect to follow
§§
4-1-6 through
4-1-8, but is not entitled to a further hearing under §
4-1-10 unless granted by the municipal authority. He or she may, however, seek
judicial review under §
4-1-12.
      (2)   If the person aggrieved did not have a hearing substantially in
compliance with §
4-1-10 when the initial determination was made, he or she shall follow §§
4-1-6 through
4-1-8 and may appeal under this section from the decision made under § 4-1-8.
   (b)   Time with which appeal may be taken. Appeal from a decision on review
under §
4-1-8 may be taken within 30 days of notice of such decision.
   (c)   How appeal may be taken. An appeal under this section may be taken by
filing with or mailing to the office or person designated in the municipal
authority’s decision on review, and written notice of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.10
§ 4-1-10 HEARING ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   (a)   Time of hearing. The village shall provide the appellant a hearing on
an appeal under §
4-1-9 within 15 days of receipt of the notice of appeal, and shall serve the
appellant with notice of such hearing by mail or personal service at least ten
days before such hearing. The office or person with whom a notice of appeal is
filed shall immediately notify the Village Attorney, who shall forthwith advise
the Village President of such appeal.
   (b)   Conduct of hearing. At the hearing the appellant and the municipal
authority may be represented by counsel and may present evidence, and call and
examine witnesses and cross-examine witnesses of the other party. Such
witnesses shall be sworn by the person conducting the hearing. The Village
President shall appoint, without confirmation, an impartial decision maker who
may be an officer, committee, board, or commission of the village or the
Village Board who did not participate in making or reviewing the initial
determination, who shall make the decision on administrative appeal. The
decision maker may issue subpoenas. The hearing may, however, be conducted by
an impartial person, committee, board, or commission designated by the Village
President to conduct the hearing and report to the decision maker.
   (c)   Record of hearing. The person conducting the hearing or a person
employed for that purpose shall take notes of the testimony and shall mark and
preserve all exhibits. The person conducting the hearing may, and upon request
of the appellant shall, cause the proceedings to be taken by a stenographer or
by a recording device, the expense thereof to be paid by the village.
   (d)   Hearing on initial determination. Where substantial existing rights
are affected by an initial determination, the municipal authority making such
determination shall, when practicable, give any person directly affected an
opportunity to be heard in accordance with this section before making such
determination.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.11
§ 4-1-11 FINAL DETERMINATION.
   (a)   Within 20 days of completion of the hearing conducted under §
4-1-10 and the filing of briefs, if any, the decision maker shall mail or
deliver to the appellant its written determination stating the reasons
therefor. Such determination shall be a final determination.
   (b)   A determination following a hearing substantially meeting the
requirements of §
4-1-10 or a decision on review under §
4-1-8 following such hearing shall be a final determination, judicial review of
which may be obtained under §
4-1-12.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.12
§ 4-1-12 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (a)   Any party to a proceeding resulting in a final determination may seek
review thereof by writ of certiorari within 30 days of receipt of the final
determination.
   (b)   The record of the proceedings shall be transcribed at the expense of
the person seeking review. A transcript shall be supplied to anyone requesting
the same at his or her expense. If the person seeking review establishes
indigence to the satisfaction of the reviewing court, the court may order the
proceedings transcribed at the expense of the village and the person seeking
review shall be furnished a free copy of the transcript. By stipulation, the
court may order a synopsis of the proceedings in lieu of a transcript. The
court may otherwise limit the requirement for a transcript.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.13
§ 4-1-13 LEGISLATIVE REVIEW.
   (a)   Seeking review pursuant to this chapter does not preclude a person
aggrieved from seeking relief from the Village Board or any of its boards,
commissions, committees, or agencies which may have jurisdiction.
   (b)   If in the course of legislative review under this section a
determination is modified, such modification and any evidence adduced before
the Village Board, board, commissions, committee, or agency shall be made part
of the record on review under §
4-1-12.
   (c)   The Village Board, board, commission, committee, or agency conducting
a legislative review under this section need not conduct the type of hearing
required under §
4-1-10.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 68.14
TITLE 5: PUBLIC SAFETY
Chapter
   
1.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
   
2.   FIRE PROTECTION
   
3.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE; HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
   
4.   REGULATION OF PRIVATE ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 1: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
5-1-1   Organization of Police Department
   
5-1-2   Record and reports
   
5-1-3   General powers of police officers
   
5-1-4   Responsibilities of Chief of Police
   
5-1-5   Rules and policies for the Police Department
   
5-1-6   Maintenance of personnel records and performance evaluations
   
5-1-7   Police Chief’s responsibility for training
   
5-1-8   Civilians to assist
   
5-1-9   Hearing authorities for suspension or removal of law enforcement
officers
§ 5-1-1 ORGANIZATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such other
officers, assistants, and patrolmen as from time to time may be appointed by
the Village Board pursuant to the provisions of the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 5-1-2 RECORD AND REPORTS.
   (a)   Quarterly reports. The Chief of Police shall submit a monthly general
report to the Village Board of all activities of the Department during the
preceding month.
   (b)   Police records. There shall be kept by the Department a suitable
record in which shall be entered the name of every person arrested in the
village, the name of the person making the arrest, the date and cause of the
arrest, the Court from which the warrant was issued, the disposition made of
the case, the amount of fine and costs paid and to whom paid, bond posted, and
all complaints in full.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 5-1-3 GENERAL POWERS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Every member of the Police Department shall:
   (a)   Familiarize himself or herself with the ordinances of the village and
the statutes, and attend to the enforcement of such ordinances by all lawful
means;
   (b)   Help prevent crimes, misdemeanors, and violations of village
ordinances and protect the health, safety, public peace, and order of the
village and its inhabitants;
   (c)   Report all street and sidewalk obstructions, unlighted street lamps,
unlawful street signs or signals, and defective or dangerous streets and
sidewalks to the appropriate person or organization responsible for their
repair or service;
   (d)   Maintain order at the scene of a fire or any other fire response
within the village;
   (e)   See that the necessary permits and licenses issued by the state or
village are in the possession of or properly displayed by any person engaged in
an activity or business within the village for which such permit or license is
required and that the terms of such permits or licenses are complied with; and
   (f)   Perform such other lawful duties as ordered by the Chief of Police, or
his or her authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 5-1-4 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (a)   Duties. In addition to the duties imposed upon him or her elsewhere in
this code of ordinances, the Chief of Police shall:
      (1)   Have command of the Police Department on administrative matters,
subject to the direction of the Village Board;
      (2)   Cause to be maintained accurate records of complaints, crimes,
traffic accidents, ordinance violations, arrests, summons, incidents, and calls
for police service, and shall provide a system of periodic summary and analysis
to ensure the most efficient and effective deployment and use of the
Department’s resources. He or she shall submit or cause to be submitted to the
various agencies such reports and summaries as are required by state statutes
or ordinances, and shall participate in voluntary programs designed to improve
law enforcement and public safety;
      (3)   Submit such reports and comply with such administrative procedures
as may be prescribed by the Village Board relative to fiscal and administrative
matters;
      (4)   Submit such reports and/or information and comply with such
policies as may be prescribed by the Village Board;
      (5)   Have control of the assignment, hours of duty, and transfer of all
members of the Department;
      (6)   Plan, organize, staff, direct, and control all of the human and
material resources of the Department for the most effective and efficient
discharge of its duty to protect persons and property, preserve the peace,
protect the rights of citizens, and enforce the state statutes and the
ordinances of the village as are within its jurisdiction. He or she shall
supervise the preparation and presentation of annual reports and budgets for
the Police Department. He or she shall be required to certify to the
correctness of all bills incurred by the Department;
      (7)   Strive to maintain suitable, productive relationships with other
village departments and with other governmental agencies and private
organizations concerned with law enforcement, crime prevention, administration
of justice, and public safety. He or she shall cooperate and exchange
information with other village departments in matters relating to their various
functions; and
      (8)   Plan and execute programs designed to prevent and repress crime,
apprehend and prosecute offenders, recover property, and regulate non-criminal
conduct, giving highest priority in the allocation of resources to crime and
other offenses most hazardous to life and property.
   (b)   Custody of department equipment. The Chief of Police shall be the
custodian of all village property, equipment, and supplies under the control
of, or used by, the Police Department and shall be responsible for the care,
maintenance, safeguarding, and accurate records of such property, equipment,
and supplies.
   (c)   Custody of department property. The Chief of Police shall be the
custodian of all property and shall be responsible for the safekeeping, lawful
disposition, and accurate record of the same. He or she shall see that all
property is returned to its lawful owner or otherwise disposed of according to
the applicable statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 5-1-5 RULES AND POLICIES FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall establish and promulgate rules of conduct,
directives, and policies and procedures, and prescribe such duties for
individual members as he or she may deem necessary for the effective and
efficient command and operation of the Department; provided, no such rules of
conduct, directive, or policy procedure duties or assignment shall be in
conflict with the statutes, ordinances, and approved village personnel rules
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 5-1-6 MAINTENANCE OF PERSONNEL RECORDS AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be maintained adequate personnel records
of employment, assignment, promotions, attendance, performance, and training
for all members of the Department. He or she shall also comply with all
provisions of the Law Enforcement Standards Board in regard to background
investigations. He or she shall keep himself or herself adequately informed of
the activities of the Department, and be assured that the duties of his or her
subordinates are properly discharged. He or she shall formulate procedures for
recognizing outstanding performance by Department members for investigating
complaints of misconduct by any Department member, and for taking appropriate
disciplinary action subject to the provisions of the applicable statutes, rules
of the Department, and the jurisdiction of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 5-1-7 POLICE CHIEF’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR TRAINING.
   The Chief of Police is responsible for the training of all members of the
Department. He or she shall cause adequate and progressive programs of training
to be organized and conducted to prepare Department members in the knowledge,
procedures, and techniques of their duties and responsibilities. He or she will
ensure that, within budgetary limitations, members of the Department attend
training courses, seminars, and conferences necessary to maintain and improve
their job skills and professional knowledge. He or she shall encourage
Department members to further their education in law enforcement through study,
special courses, college attendance, extension programs, and independent
readings.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 5-1-8 CIVILIANS TO ASSIST.
   All persons in the village, when called upon by any police officer or peace
officer, shall promptly aid and assist him or her in the execution of his or
her duties, and whoever shall neglect or refuse to give such aid or assistance
shall be subject to the general penalty as provided in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8)
§ 5-1-9 HEARING AUTHORITIES FOR SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL OF LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS.
   (a)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 62.13(6m), the village may not suspend,
reduce, or remove any Police Chief or other law enforcement officer who is not
probationary, unless the village follows the procedure under Wis. Stats. §
62.13(5). To act under this subsection (a) in place of the Board of Police and
Fire Commissioners under Wis. Stats. § 62.13(1) through (6), the village may do
either of the following.
      (1)   Establish a committee of not less than three members, none of whom
may be an elected or appointed official of the village or be employed by the
village. The village shall pay each member for the member’s cost of serving on
the committee.
      (2)   Send a written request for a hearing examiner to the division of
hearings and appeals under Wis. Stats. § 15.103(1). The village shall reimburse
the state for the state’s costs under this subsection (a)(2).
   (b)   The provisions of this section required by Wis. Stats. § 61.65(1)(am),
first applies to law enforcement officers, when such officers are subject to a
collective bargaining agreement which is in conflict with the statutory
requirements, but which is still in effect on April 9, 1986, only after the
expiration date of such agreement.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9)
CHAPTER 2: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
5-2-1   Impeding fire equipment prohibited
   
5-2-2   Police power of the Department; investigation of fires
   
5-2-3   Damaging fire hose prohibited; parking by hydrants; blocking fire lanes
   
5-2-4   Firefighters may enter adjacent property
   
5-2-5   Duty of bystanders to assist
   
5-2-6   Vehicles to yield right-of-way
   
5-2-7   Interference with use of hydrants prohibited
   
5-2-8   Open burning
§ 5-2-1 IMPEDING FIRE EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall impede the progress of a fire engine, fire truck, or other
fire apparatus of the Village Fire Department along the streets or alleys of
such village at the time of a fire or when the Fire Department of the village
is using such streets or alleys in response to a fire alarm or for practice.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 5-2-2 POLICE POWER OF THE DEPARTMENT; INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (a)   Police authority at fires.
      (1)   The Chief and assistants or officers in command at any fire are
hereby vested with full and complete police authority at fires. Any officer of
the Department may cause the arrest of any person failing to give the right-of-
way to the Fire Department in responding to a fire.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may prescribe certain limits in the vicinity of any
fire within which no persons, excepting firefighters and police officers, and
those admitted by order of any officer of the Department, shall be permitted to
come.
      (3)   The Chief shall have the power to cause the removal of any property
whenever it shall become necessary for the preservation of such property from
fire or to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect the adjoining property,
and during the progress of any fire he or she shall have the power to cause the
removal of all wires or other facilities and the turning off of all electricity
or other services where the same impedes the work of the Department during the
progress of a fire.
   (b)   Fire inspection duties.
      (1)   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, shall be the Fire Inspector
of the village, and shall have the power to appoint one or more Deputy Fire
Inspectors, and shall perform all duties required of the Fire Inspectors by the
laws of the state and rules of the Department of Industry, Labor, and Human
Relations, particularly Wis. Stats. § 101.14.
      (2)   a.   While acting as Fire Inspector, pursuant to Wis. Stats. §
101.14(2), the Fire Chief, or any officer of the Fire Department designated by
the Fire Chief, shall have the right and authority to enter any building or
upon any premises in the village at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
making inspections or investigations which, under the provisions of this code
of ordinances, he or she may deem necessary.
         b.   Should the Fire Inspector find that any provisions of this code
relating to fire hazards and prevention of fires are being violated, or that a
fire hazard exists which should be eliminated, it shall be his or her duty to
give such directions for the abatement of such conditions as he or she shall
deem necessary and, if such directions be not complied with, to report such
noncompliance to the Village Board for further action.
      (3)   a.   The Chief of the Fire Department is required, by himself or
herself, or by officers or members of the Fire Department designated by him or
her as Fire Inspectors, to inspect all buildings, premises, and public
thoroughfares, except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire,
or any violations of any law or ordinance relating to the fire hazard or to the
prevention of fires.
         b.   Such inspections shall be made at least once in six months in all
of the territory served by the Fire Department, and not less than once in three
months in such territory as the Village Board has designated or thereafter
designates as within the village or as a congested district subject to
conflagration, and oftener as the Chief of the Fire Department orders. Each
six-month period shall begin on January 1 and July 1, and each three-month
period on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year.
      (4)   Written reports of inspections shall be made and kept on file in
the office of the Chief of the Fire Department in the manner and form required
by the Department of Industry, Labor, and Human Relations. A copy of such
reports shall be filed with the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 101.14(2)
§ 5-2-3 DAMAGING FIRE HOSE PROHIBITED; PARKING BY HYDRANTS; BLOCKING FIRE
LANES.
   (a)   Driving over fire hose. No person shall willfully injure in any manner
any hose, hydrant, or fire apparatus belonging to the Village Fire Department,
and no vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street, private driveway, or other place, to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command.
   (b)   Parking vehicles near hydrants. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle or leave any object within ten feet of any fire hydrant at any
time.
   (c)   No parking near fire. It shall be unlawful for any person, in case of
fire, to drive or park any vehicle within one block from the place of fire
without the consent and authority of the Fire Chief or any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 5-2-4 FIREFIGHTERS MAY ENTER ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   (a)   Entering adjacent property. It shall be lawful for any firefighter,
while acting under the direction of the Fire Chief or any other officer in
command, to enter upon the premises adjacent to or in the vicinity of a
building or other property then on fire for the purpose of extinguishing such
fire, and in case any person shall hinder, resist, or obstruct any firefighter
in the discharge of his or her duty as is hereinbefore provided, the person so
offending shall be deemed guilty of resisting firefighters in the discharge of
their duty.
   (b)   Destruction of property to prevent the spread of fire. During the
progress of any fire, the Fire Chief, or his or her assistant, shall have the
power to order the removal or destruction of any property necessary to prevent
the further spread of fire; provided, that it is inevitable that, unless such
property is removed, other property is in danger of being destroyed by fire.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4)
§ 5-2-5 DUTY OF BYSTANDERS TO ASSIST.
   (a)   Every person who shall be present at a fire shall be subject to the
orders of the Fire Chief or officer in command, and may be required to render
assistance in fighting the fire or in removing or guarding property.
   (b)   Such officer shall have the power to cause the arrest of any person or
persons refusing to obey said orders.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5)
§ 5-2-6 VEHICLES TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Whenever there shall be a fire or fire alarm, or the Fire Department shall
be out for practice, every person driving or riding in a motorized or other
vehicle shall move and remain to the side of the street until the fire engine
and fire truck, and other fire apparatus, shall have passed.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6)
§ 5-2-7 INTERFERENCE WITH USE OF HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall occupy any portion of such streets or alleys with a
motorized, or other, vehicle between such fire engine or fire truck, or other
fire apparatus, or any hydrant to which a fire hose may be, or may be about to
be, attached.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7)
§ 5-2-8 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   Open burning prohibited. No person, firm, corporation, or other entity
shall build any outdoor fire within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting as set forth in subsection (b) below. This prohibition on burning
includes burning of construction waste and debris at construction sites.
   (b)   Exceptions. The following exceptions are for the burning of permitted
materials only.
      (1)   Outdoor cooking over a fire contained in a device or structure
designed for such use is permissible.
      (2)   Controlled burning of grass or similar vegetation for environmental
management purposes, with the prior express written approval of the Fire Chief,
or his or her designee, may be permitted; this exception is not to be used for
the burning of grass, leaves, or other lawn debris.
      (3)   Ceremonial campfire or bonfires, with prior express written
approval of the Fire Chief, may be permitted.
      (4)   Controlled burning of dry leaves, twigs, and other non-offensive
dry yard debris is permitted only at such tines and under such conditions as
designated by the Fire Chief, and published by him or her in The Times or such
other newspaper as designated by the village as its official newspaper;
provided, however, that such burning is:
         a.   Monitored by a responsible person until the fire has extinguished
itself completely;
         b.   Conducted on days when excessive wind or atmospheric conditions
will not result in danger to public health or safety;
         c.   Located off the public street pavement or street gutter;
         d.   Located at least 30 feet from any neighboring residence; and
         e.   Limited to the materials identified in this subsection (b)(4) and
is not used for the covert burning of other materials.
      (5)   Other requests for the outdoor burning of permitted materials not
specified in this subsection (b), but under circumstances indicating that said
burning is not as an alternative to refuse removal or disposal for which other
methods are available, may be permitted on a single-occasion basis with the
prior, express, written approval of the Fire Chief, or his or her designee;
      (6)   Any person or entity desiring to burn by bonfire any permitted
materials shall apply to the Fire Chief of the Village Fire Department, or his
or her designee, for a permit for such burning which may be granted under the
following conditions:
         a.   The permit may be granted only for burning permitted materials as
defined below;
         b.   The permit may only be applied for by the owner of the land on
which the burning will take place and the owner of the materials to be burned.
The permit may only be granted to said owner or owners. In the event the land
or the materials are owned by a business entity, said entity may only make
application through an officer, member, partner, or agent duly authorized in
writing;
         c.   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, may, in his or her sole
discretion, grant such a permit without charge conditioned upon the supervision
of such burning by the said Fire Chief, and/or his or her designee;
         d.   The person, persons, or entity to whom a permit is issued shall
be solely responsible for compliance with this section and shall follow the
instructions and directions prescribed by said Fire Chief, or his or her
designee, and shall permit said Fire Chief, or his or her designee, to come
upon the property in order to exercise the supervisory function;
         e.   Whenever approval and special permit are granted by the Fire
Chief, or his or her designee, under this section, the permit may specify and
be conditioned upon observance of safety regulations and insurance requirements
set forth on the face of said permit; and
         f.   All permits shall be granted in writing on forms prescribed by
the Fire Chief. Said forms shall clearly identify the person, persons, or
entity to whom the permit is granted, the date on which and for which it is
granted, the specific location at which the burning is to take place, specific
identification of the materials to be burned, and any other terms and
conditions deemed necessary by the Fire Chief in accordance with subsection (b)
(6)e. above. The original of all permits shall be kept on file by the Fire
Chief and, immediately upon issuance, a copy shall be provided to the Village
Police Department and to the holder or holders of the permit.
   (c)   Chief may prohibit. The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, is
permitted to prohibit any or all bonfires and outdoor fires when, in his or her
judgment, atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires
hazardous.
   (d)   Burning on streets. No materials may be burned upon any street, curb,
gutter, or sidewalk.
   (e)   Liability. Any person or persons holding a permit for and/or utilizing
and/or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be responsible for any liability for
damages caused by the said fire.
   (f)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      PERMITTED MATERIALS. Wood or wood products; cardboard; paper or paper
products; dry leaves, twigs, and other dry yard debris; charcoal; tobacco.
      PROHIBITED MATERIALS. Cans; batteries; any containers holding paint;
pesticides; plastic; fiberglass; tires or rubber; any hazardous substances, the
disposal of which is regulated by state or federal law; anything which produces
noxious or toxic smoke or fumes; food or food waste; dead animals; mattresses
or box springs; furniture containing springs or a substantial portion of which
is constructed of metal, plastic, or fiberglass; petroleum products;
telephones; appliances; carpet or padding; styrofoam; any material containing
asbestos.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8)
CHAPTER 3: FIRE PREVENTION CODE; HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
5-3-1   Adoption of state code
   
5-3-2   Disclosure of hazardous materials and infectious agents; reimbursement
for clean-up of spills
   
5-3-3   Recovery of costs of extinguishing and cleaning up fires involving
hazardous materials
   
5-3-4   Automatic fire sprinkler systems for multi-family dwellings
§ 5-3-1 ADOPTION OF STATE CODE.
   The following orders, rules, and regulations of the Department of Safety and
Professional Services, all of which are set forth in the Wisconsin
Administrative Code as from time to amended, are incorporated herein by
reference and adopted as part of this fire prevention chapter: Wis. Admin.
Code, Chapters SPS 301 through 399, “Safety, Buildings, and Environment.”
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 5-3-2 DISCLOSURE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND INFECTIOUS AGENTS; REIMBURSEMENT
FOR CLEAN-UP OF SPILLS.
   (a)   Application.
      (1)   All persons, firms, or organizations using, researching, or
producing hazardous materials and/or infectious agents shall notify the Fire
Department as prescribed by this section.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons, firms,
or organizations using, researching, producing, or storing hazardous materials
and/or infectious agents on and after the effective date of this section.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Materials that can cause death or disabling injury
from brief exposure; those materials that could cause a lost-time injury from
exposure; and those materials that could cause temporary disability or injury
without permanent effects which are used, researched, produced, or stored
within or on premises, except those household consumer products used at the
point of consumption and not used for commercial or experimental purposes. This
definition of HAZARDOUS MATERIALS shall include radioactive materials.
      INFECTIOUS AGENT. A bacterial, mycoplasmal, fungal, parasitic, or viral
agent known to cause illness in humans which is used, researched, produced, or
stored within or on premises.
   (c)   Information required.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or organization using, researching, producing,
and/or storing any hazardous materials shall provide in writing to the Fire
Department the following information.
         a.   The address and location of where hazardous materials are used,
researched, stored, or produced.
         b.   The trade name of the hazardous material.
         c.   The chemical name and any commonly used synonym for the hazardous
material and the chemical name and any commonly used synonym for its major
components.
         d.   The exact locations on the premises where materials are used,
researched, stored, and/or produced.
         e.   Amounts of hazardous materials on premises per exact location.
         f.   The boiling point, vapor pressure, vapor density, solubility in
water, specific gravity, percentage volatile by volume, evaporation rate for
liquids, and appearance and odor of the hazardous material.
         g.   The flashpoint and flammable limits of the hazardous substance.
         h.   Any permissible exposure level, threshold limit value, or other
established limit value for exposure to a hazardous material.
         i.   The stability of the hazardous substance.
         j.   Recommended fire extinguishing media, special firefighting
procedures, and fire and explosion hazard information for the hazardous
material.
         k.   Any effect of over-exposure to the hazardous material, emergency,
and first aid procedures, and telephone numbers to call in an emergency.
         l.   Any condition or material which is incompatible with the
hazardous material and must be avoided.
         m.   Any personal protective equipment to be worn or used and special
precautions to be taken when handling or coming into contact with the hazardous
materials.
         n.   Procedures for handling or coming into contact with the hazardous
materials.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or organization using, researching, producing,
and/or storing infectious agent and/or carrier of an infectious agent shall
provide in writing to the Fire Department the following.
         a.   The name and any commonly used synonym of the infectious agent.
         b.   Address/location where infectious agents are used, researched,
stored, and/or produced.
         c.   The exact locations where infectious agents are used, researched,
stored, and/or produced.
         d.   Amount of infectious agent on premises per exact locations.
         e.   Any methods of route of transmission of the infectious agents.
         f.   Any symptoms of effect of infection, emergency, and first aid
procedure and a telephone number to be called in an emergency.
         g.   Any personal protective equipment to be worn or used and special
precautions to be taken when handling or coming in contact with the infectious
agent.
         h.   Procedure for handling, clean-up, and disposal of infectious
agents leaked or spilled.
   (d)   Reimbursement for cleanup of spills. Any person who possesses or
controls a hazardous material or infectious agent which was discharged or
caused the discharge of a hazardous material or infectious agent shall
reimburse the village for actual and necessary expenses incurred by the
village, or its agent, to contain, remove, or dispose of the hazardous
substance or infectious agent, or take any other appropriate action which is
deemed appropriate under the circumstance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 5-3-3 RECOVERY OF COSTS OF EXTINGUISHING AND CLEANING UP FIRES INVOLVING
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (a)   Every person, firm, or corporation using, storing, handling, or
transporting flammable or combustible liquids, chemicals, gases, or other
hazardous materials shall comply with the requirements of Wis. Admin. Code,
Chapter ILHR 8, as the same is now in force and may hereafter from time to time
be amended.
   (b)   Every person, firm, or corporation using, storing, handling, or
transporting (whether by rail or on the highways) flammable or combustible
liquids, chemicals, gases, or other hazardous materials shall be liable to the
village for the actual cost of labor and materials associated with the use of
any specialized extinguishing agent, chemical, neutralizer, or similar material
or equipment employed to extinguish, confine, or clean up any such hazardous
material which is involved in any accidental spill or in threat of any fire or
accidental spill.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 5-3-4 AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS FOR MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM. Has the meaning given in Wis. Stats. §
145.01(2).
      DWELLING UNIT. Has the meaning given in Wis. Stats. § 101.61(1).
      HOTEL. An establishment which provides lodging and various personal
services for the public.
      MOTEL. An establishment which provides lodging and parking, and in which
the rooms are usually accessible from an outdoor parking area.
      MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. An apartment building, townhouse, condominium, or
manufactured building, as defined in Wis. Stats. § 101.71(6), that does not
exceed 60 feet or six stories, and that consists of three or more attached
dwelling units, the initial construction of which is begun on or after the
effective date of this section. MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING does not include any
facility whose operation requires a license, certification, certificate of
approval, or permit under Wis. Stats. Chapter 50.
      OWNER. A person having a legal or equitable interest in a multi-family
dwelling.
   (b)   Administrative code provisions adopted. The orders, rules, and
regulations of Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter ILHR 57, as amended, are incorporated
herein by reference and are adopted as part of this Section, and further
restricted as follows.
      (1)   Sprinkler system required for multi-family dwellings. An automatic
fire sprinkler system is required in every multi-family dwelling over two
stories in height.
      (2)   Sprinkler system required for hotels/motels. An automatic fire
sprinkler system shall be required for all motels or hotels over two stories in
height.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
CHAPTER 4: REGULATION OF PRIVATE ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
5-4-1   Title
   
5-4-2   Declaration of purpose
   
5-4-3   Definitions
   
5-4-4   Administrative rules
   
5-4-5   Automatic dialing devices
   
5-4-6   Direct connections to the Police Department
   
5-4-7   Testing
   
5-4-8   Notification
   
5-4-9   Fee for answering alarms
   
5-4-10   Village liability
   
5-4-11   Permits for private alarm systems
   
5-4-12   Revocation of permits
§ 5-4-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Village of Turtle Lake Alarm Systems
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 5-4-2 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards and regulations
applicable to burglar, fire, and holdup alarm systems, alarm businesses, and
alarm users. Both society in general and public safety in particular will be
aided by providing a useful and usable system of private security which
properly balances quick response by law enforcement with minimization of law
enforcement time spent on alarms which are false or otherwise not the intended
function of private security systems.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 5-4-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any business in which the owners or employees engage in the
activity of altering, installing, leasing, maintaining, repairing, replacing,
selling, or servicing alarm systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices or single device such as
a solid state unit which plugs directly into 110-volt AC line or otherwise
receives electrical energy arranged to signal the presence of a hazard
requiring urgent attention and to which the Police or Fire Departments is
expected to respond. In this chapter, the term ALARM SYSTEM shall include the
terms AUTOMATIC HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEMS, BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEMS, HOLDUP ALARM
SYSTEMS, and MANUAL HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEMS as those terms are hereinafter
defined, and fire alarm systems which monitor temperature, humidity, or any
other condition directly related to the detection of fire. Excluded from this
definition and from the coverage of this chapter are ALARM SYSTEMS used to
alert or signal persons within the premises in which the ALARM SYSTEM is
located of an attempted, unauthorized intrusion or holdup attempt, or fire.
   ANNUNCIATOR. The instrumentation of an alarm console at the receiving
terminal of a signal line through which both visual and audible signals show
when an alarm device at a particular location has been activated or which, in
the event of malfunction, may also indicate line trouble.
   ANSWERING SERVICE. A telephone answering service providing among its
services the service of receiving on a continuous basis through trained
employees emergency signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately
relaying the message by live voice to the dispatch center of the Police or Fire
Department.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. An alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines by direct connection or otherwise a prerecorded voice
message or coded signal indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   AUTOMATIC HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system in which the signal
transmission is initiated by the action of the robber.
   BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system which signals an entry or attempted
entry into the area protected by the system.
   CENTRAL STATION. An office to which remote alarm and supervisory signaling
devices are connected, where operators supervise the circuits.
   DIRECT CONNECT. An alarm system which has the capability of transmitting
system signals to the Police or Fire Departments.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, or the negligence of the owner or lessee of
an alarm system, or of his or her employees or agents, or other undetermined
cause. FALSE ALARM does not include alarms caused by tornadoes or other violent
climatic conditions.
   INTERCONNECT. To connect an alarm system to a voice grade telephone line,
either directly or through a mechanical device that utilizes a standard
telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit an emergency
message upon the activation of the alarm system.
   MANUAL HOLDUP ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system in which the signal transmission
is initiated by the direct action of the person attached or by an observer
thereof.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading directly into the dispatch
center of the Police or Fire Departments that is for the purpose of handling
emergency calls on a person-to-person basis, and which is identified as such by
a specific number included among the emergency numbers listed in the telephone
directory or numbers in sequence therewith.
   SUBSCRIBER. A person who buys or leases or otherwise obtains an alarm system
and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm business to monitor and/or
service the alarm system.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
§ 5-4-4 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES.
   The Chief of Police shall promulgate such rules as may be necessary for the
implementation of this chapter. Such rules shall require the approval of the
Village Board and shall be open to inspection by the public.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 5-4-5 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall interconnect any automatic dialing device to a Police
or Fire Department’s primary trunk line. No person shall permit such devices,
which were installed prior to the effective date of this chapter, to remain
interconnected from any property owned or controlled by that person. Such
devices may be connected to a central station or an answering service.
   (b)   Relaying messages so received to the Police or Fire Departments shall
only be done person to person on the telephone line.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 5-4-6 DIRECT CONNECTIONS TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Direct connections to the Police or Fire Departments are prohibited, but may
be authorized pursuant to the direct connection policies of each Department, a
copy of which is on file with the Chief of Police and Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 5-4-7 TESTING.
   (a)   No alarm business or alarm system designed to transmit emergency
messages to the Police Department shall be tested or demonstrated without prior
notification and approval of the Police Department dispatcher. Alarm businesses
or alarm system owners or lessors will be advised on proper test procedure.
   (b)   No alarm system relayed through intermediate services to the Police
Department will be tested to determine the Police Department’s response without
first notifying the appropriate authority. However, the Police Department may
inspect or test on-site alarm systems authorized under this chapter.
   (c)   Alarm systems shall be in compliance with all pertinent response
policies of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7)
§ 5-4-8 NOTIFICATION.
   When the service provided by an alarm business to its subscribers is
disrupted for any reason by the alarm business or the alarm business becomes
aware of such disruption, it shall promptly notify its subscribers by telephone
that protection is no longer being provided. If, however, the alarm business
has written instructions from its subscriber not to make such notification by
telephone during certain hours, the alarm business may comply with such
instructions.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8)
§ 5-4-9 FEE FOR ANSWERING ALARMS.
   (a)   Generally. Each false alarm requires the response of public safety
personnel, involves unnecessary expense to the village, increases the risk of
injury to persons or damage to property, and dilutes the overall public safety
protection to the village. Such false alarms constitute a public nuisance and
must be abated.
   (b)   Intentional. No person shall intentionally cause the activation of a
burglar/fire alarm device knowing that no criminal activity, fire, or other
emergency exists.
   (c)   False alarms; administrative charges. Any person, business,
corporation, or other entity having permissible alarm system with alarm device
(s) at one or more locations in accordance with this chapter shall pay to the
village a charge for false alarms responded to by the Police or Fire
Departments according to the following schedule for each calendar year for each
location connected, separate accounts to be kept for false alarms as to
criminal activity and false alarms for fire or other emergencies.
      (1)   Responded to by Police Department:
         a.   First two false alarms for a location: No charge;
         b.   Third false alarm per location: $25;
         c.   Fourth false alarm per location: $35;
         d.   Fifth false alarm per location: $45; and
         e.   Sixth and subsequent false alarm per location: $65.
      (2)   All false alarms responded to by Fire Department firefighting
personnel and apparatus, in addition to a police response:
         a.   First two false alarms for a location: No charge.
         b.   Third and subsequent false alarm per location: $100.
      (3)   This subsection (c) is intended to impose a strict liability on the
person, business, corporation, or other entity responsible for alarm connection
to either the police alarm panel or to the alarm receiving firm to which the
Police or Fire Departments have responded, and shall be applied regardless of
the cause of the false alarm, excepting those alarms excluded from the
definition of false alarm. Failure to pay such administrative charge(s) in and
of itself shall constitute a violation of this section, and such charge(s)
shall be collectible as a forfeiture upon prosecution and conviction thereof,
together with an additional forfeiture(s) which may be imposed under subsection
(d) below for violation of this section for allowing or maintaining condition
(s) or act(s) violative of the intent of this section of eliminating and
minimizing the occurrence of false alarms, together with costs of prosecution.
   (d)   Other violations. Any person, corporation, or other entity violating
this chapter in any manner, other than for collection of unpaid administrative
charges treated in the preceding subsection (a) above, shall be subject to
forfeiture as provided in §
1-1-6 of this code. When any premises located in the village is owned, leased,
or occupied by two or more persons as joint tenants, tenants in common, joint
lessees, or in any other manner, each person shall see that the provisions of
this chapter are complied with, and each person may be subjected to a penalty
on violation of this section.
   (e)   Default of payment for forfeiture and/or costs. On default of payment
of forfeiture and/or costs under the immediately preceding subsections (c) and/
or (d) above, such person or responsible officer of the violating corporation
or other entity shall be confined in the County Jail until the same be paid,
but not to exceed a length of time specified by the court which length of time
shall not exceed six months. Upon nonpayment of the fee, the amount due may be
placed on the tax roll as a special charge pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0627.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-9)
§ 5-4-10 VILLAGE LIABILITY.
   The village shall be under no duty or obligation to a subscriber or to any
other person concerning any provision of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, any defects in an alarm system or any delays in transmission or
response to any alarm; however, this in no way shall be construed that it is
not the proper function of law enforcement to respond to alarms.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-10)
§ 5-4-11 PERMITS FOR PRIVATE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (a)   Permit required. A permit is required for each private alarm system on
premises within the village. There shall be a $10 permit fee.
   (b)   Interior alarms. A permit under this chapter is not required for an
alarm system which gives a signal, visual or audible, or both, solely within
the interior of the building in which it is located.
   (c)   Issuing authority. The Police Chief shall issue the permits and
collect the fees.
   (d)   Application. Application for permit required under this chapter shall
be filed with the Police Chief. The Police Chief shall prescribe the form of
the application and request such information as is necessary to evaluate and
act upon the permit application. The Police Chief shall deny a permit if the
alarm system for which it is sought does not comply with this chapter.
   (e)   Appeal. Any person required by this chapter to have a permit who has
been denied such a permit by the Police Chief shall have a right to appeal that
decision to the Village Board. The procedure for this appeal shall be as set
forth in § 5-4-12.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-11)
§ 5-4-12 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (a)   Hearing. Before a permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked, a hearing shall be held before the Police Chief. Notice setting forth
the time, place, and nature of the hearing shall be sent by mail or delivered
to the permittee at the address shown on the permit application not less than
seven days prior to the hearing.
   (b)   Grounds for revocation. The Police Chief may revoke a permit on the
following grounds:
      (1)   The application for a permit contains a false statement of a
material fact;
      (2)   A licensee has repeatedly failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter; and
      (3)   An alarm system repeatedly actuates false alarms.
   (c)   Appeals. Any permittee may appeal the decision of the Police Chief by
filing a written notice of appeal with the Police Chief within ten days after
the decision. Such appeal shall be heard by the Village Board within 30 days
after filing the appeal. The Village Board may affirm, amend, or reverse the
decision or take other action deemed appropriate. An appeal timely taken
suspends the revocation until the Village Board gives its decision. The Police
Chief shall give written notice of the time and place of the hearing to the
appellant by certified mail or personal delivery not less than seven days
before the hearing. In conducting the hearing, the Village Board shall not be
limited by the technical rules of evidence.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-12)
TITLE 6: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
1.   GRADES
   
2.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
3.   DRIVEWAYS
   
4.   TREES AND SHRUBS
   
5.   URBAN FORESTRY PROGRAM
CHAPTER 1: GRADES
Section
   
6-1-1   Establishment of grades
   
6-1-2   Alteration of grade prohibited
   
6-1-3   Regulations and grades of underground utilities
§ 6-1-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF GRADES.
   (a)   Grades to be established. The grade of all streets, alleys, and
sidewalks shall be established by the Village Board and the same recorded by
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
in his or her office. No street, alley, or sidewalk shall be worked until the
grade thereof is established. In all cases where the grade of sidewalks shall
not nave been specifically set by ordinance, the sidewalks shall be laid to the
established grade of the street. All such grades heretofore established are
hereby confirmed.
   (b)   New sidewalk grade. Whenever a street shall be improved for the first
time or the grade thereof changed and the street improved so as to conform to
the new grade, the grading of the sidewalk shall be considered a part of the
improvement, shall be let by contract with the other work of improving such
street, and the expense thereof shall be provided for and borne in all respects
like that of improving the street, but the construction shall be done by the
owners of the abutting lots or parcels of land or at their expense as
hereinafter provided. Before such construction is commenced by the owners of
the abutting lots or parcels of land, the Village Board shall, upon application
by the respective owners for a sidewalk grade, cause such sidewalk grade to be
established.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 6-1-2 ALTERATION OF GRADE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall alter the grade of any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
ground, or any part thereof, in the village by any means whatsoever unless
authorized or instructed to do so by the Village Board or Director of Public
Works. All such alterations of grade shall be recorded in the office of the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 6-1-3 REGULATIONS AND GRADES OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (a)   Elevation. The grade or elevation of all underground construction
shall be a minimum of three feet below the established grade of the street,
alley, park, public property, or easement. The three feet shall be measured
between the top of the established grade and the top of the underground
construction.
   (b)   Approval of location. The location of any and all such underground
construction must have the approval of the Director of Public Works.
   (c)   Filing plans. Complete plans for any such construction must be filed
with and be approved by the Director of Public Works before construction can
begin.
   (d)   Inspection. On request of the Director of Public Works, the utility
company must provide opportunity for him or her to check any construction
before it may be covered.
   (e)   Conflict with other utilities. If the grade or elevation herein set
for the underground construction of utilities shall, in any instance, conflict
with other existing utilities, the utility shall be required to lower the
elevation of its underground construction, or of the storm sewer, at the
election of the Director of Public Works and in accordance with his or her
directions and specifications.
   (f)   Establishment of grade. At the request of the utility company, the
Director of Public Works shall give the utility company an established grade on
any streets, alleys, public parks, or easements where it proposes to install
underground utilities.
   (g)   Emergency. In case of an emergency, when immediate action is necessary
in order to protect life or property, the utility company may proceed with
underground construction subject to obtaining the approval of such work by the
Director of Public Works as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible.
   (h)   Restoration of surface. In the event of any such underground
construction, the utility company shall leave the surface of the ground, or
road, in the same condition as before said work was commenced, and in the event
of its failure so to do, the village may proceed to place the surface of the
ground or street in such condition at the utility company’s expense. Such work
shall comply with the provisions of §§
6-2-3 and
6-2-4.
   (i)   Non-relief from obligations. Compliance with this section does not
relieve the utility company from any responsibility of any kind whatsoever by
reason of the widening of the travelway, or any other improvements which may
become necessary; nor does it relieve it from any liability of any kind or
nature whatsoever. Compliance with this section shall not relieve the utility
company from the responsibility or obligation of removing, relocating, or
moving any of its mains, pipes, or property due to the opening, widening, or
improving of streets, or due to any other changes which may occur by reason of
which such moving, relocation, or removing may be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
CHAPTER 2: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
6-2-1   Removal of rubbish and dirt from sidewalks
   
6-2-2   Construction and repair of sidewalks
   
6-2-3   Excavations of streets, alleys, public ways, and grounds
   
6-2-4   Regulations governing excavations and openings
   
6-2-5   Obstructions and encroachments
   
6-2-6   Street privilege permit
   
6-2-7   Snow and ice removal
   
6-2-8   Terrace areas
   
6-2-9   Vaults
   
6-2-10   Requests for improvements
   
6-2-11   Unlawful dumping on streets
   
6-2-12   Obstruction of public ditches
   
6-2-13   Curb and gutter construction and repair
   
6-2-14   Street numbers
§ 6-2-1 REMOVAL OF RUBBISH AND DIRT FROM SIDEWALKS.
   No owner or occupant shall allow the sidewalk abutting on his or her
premises to be littered with rubbish or dirt. If such owner or occupant shall
refuse or fail to remove any such rubbish or dirt when notified to do so by the
Village Board, or its designee, the Village Board, or its designee, may cause
the same to be done and report the cost thereof to the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, who shall spread the cost
on the tax roll as a special tax against the premises, pursuant to Wis. Stats.
§ 66.0627, or such cost may be recovered in an action against the owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 6-2-2 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   Board may order. The Village Board may determine that sidewalks or
curb and gutter may be constructed, laid, rebuilt, or repaired along or upon
any public street, right-of-way, or highway within the village. The Village
Board may determine or change the width or grade of any street or sidewalk.
   (b)   Apportionment of costs. Where required by the Village Board, it shall
be the duty of the abutting owner to build, repair, construct, and perpetually
maintain sidewalks along or upon any street, alley, or highway in the village
and for the owner to pay 60% of the cost of repair or reconstruction and the
village to pay 40%. Sidewalks in new subdivisions shall be installed pursuant
to the village’s subdivision ordinance. Whenever the Village Board shall, by
resolution, determine that a sidewalk be laid, rebuilt, repaired, lowered, or
raised along or upon any public street, alley, or highway within the village,
it shall proceed according to Wis. Stats. § 66.0907.
   (c)   Permit required. No person shall hereafter lay, remove, replace, or
repair any public sidewalk within the village unless he or she is under
contract with the village to do such work or has obtained a permit therefore
from the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, at least three days before work is proposed to be undertaken. No
fee shall be charged for such permits.
   (d)   Standard specifications for sidewalk.
      (1)   General. Concrete sidewalk construction shall meet the
specifications and provisions set forth in this section, and shall be
constructed in locations and to line and grade as established by the village.
      (2)   Grading. Prior to construction, ground on which sidewalks are to be
placed shall be brought to within three inches of subgrade by the contractor.
      (3)   Subgrade. Subgrade shall be three inches of sand fill, thoroughly
and uniformly compacted and brought to correct grade placing of concrete, and
thoroughly wet down immediately before concrete is placed. Soft and unsuitable
subgrade material shall be removed and replaced with sand or other satisfactory
material, and the subgrade shall be thoroughly and uniformly compacted and
moistened immediately before the concrete is placed.
      (4)   Concrete. The minimum quantity of cement per cubic yard shall be
six 94-pound sacks. Concrete shall be mixed for at least one minute. Gravel
shall be of good quality and washed. Concrete shall test 2,000 pounds
compression in 28 days.
      (5)   Jointing. Expansion joints one-half inch thick and four feet wide
shall be placed at 50-foot maximum intervals. At all places where a walk
intersects another walk or curb line, a one-half inch expansion joint shall be
placed.
      (6)   Slope. To provide adequate drainage, the sidewalk shall slope
toward the curb at a minimum rate of one-fourth inch per foot of width of
sidewalk. All joints and edges shall be finished with a one-fourth inch radius
edging tool. Sidewalks shall be constructed within the limits of the street,
and unless otherwise specifically indicated, there shall be a six-inch strip of
street property left between the property line and the edge of the sidewalk.
      (7)   Width and thickness. Residential walks shall be four feet in width
and not less than four inches thick except within driveway approaches where the
minimum thickness shall be six inches, provided, that walks in residential
areas may be repaired or replaced to a width not less than the existing width
on the effective date of this section. Sidewalks in front of commercial or
industrial establishments shall have a width established by the Board and five
inches in thickness, except within driveway approaches where the minimum
thickness shall be seven inches. Where possible, sidewalks shall be located
nine feet from the curb. One-half inch reinforcement rod shall be used when
replacing or repairing sidewalks over alley entrances.
      (8)   Finishing. The concrete shall be struck off true to grade, finished
smooth, and given a broom finish. All edges shall be rounded. No tool marks
shall be left on exposed surfaces. In case of rain, the walk shall be covered
to protect the surface from being damaged. Walks shall be kept free from all
traffic at normal temperatures for 48 hours and in cold weather (below 50°F)
for 96 hours. No concrete shall be poured when the temperature may be expected
to fall below 35°F in any 72-hour period or upon frozen subgrade.
      (9)   Curing. Concrete shall be kept moist by sprinkling, covering, or a
combination of both for a minimum of five days.
      (10)   Higher standards. Where deemed necessary by the village, higher
sidewalk standards may be required by the Village Board.
   (e)   Repair or replacement of defective sidewalks. Pursuant to Wis. Stats.
§ 66.0907, the Village Board may order at any time property owners to repair or
remove and replace any sidewalk which is unsafe, defective, or insufficient. If
the property owner shall fail to so repair or remove and replace such sidewalk
within 30 days after service or the notice provided in Wis. Stats. § 66.0907(3)
(c), the Village Board shall repair or construct such sidewalk and the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall enter
the total cost thereof upon the tax roll as a special assessment against said
lot or parcel of land. If a life-threatening situation exists which is caused
by a sidewalk in need of repair, the Village Board, or its designee, shall
direct the property owner to make repairs within seven days. If the property
owner shall fail to repair such sidewalk within the required period, the
Village Board shall make the necessary repairs and the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall enter the total cost
thereof on the tax roll as a special tax against said parcel.
   (f)   Illegal sidewalks. No sidewalk which shall be constructed contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be considered a legal sidewalk, and the
same may be ordered to be replaced with a legal sidewalk and with one that is
in conformity with this section, the same as if no sidewalk whatever had been
built or constructed in the place where any such sidewalk is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 66.615
§ 6-2-3 EXCAVATIONS OF STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC WAYS, AND GROUNDS.
   (a)   Permit required. No person, partnership, or corporation, or their
agents or employees or contractors, shall make or cause to be made any opening
or excavation in any public street, public alley, public way, public ground,
public sidewalk, or village-owned easement within the village without a permit
therefor from the Village Board, or its designee, or Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (b)   Application for permit. The application for a permit shall be in
writing and signed by the applicant, or his or her agent. The applicant shall
submit to the Village Board, or its designee, at the time the permit is applied
for, sufficient information relating to the work to be done, including the
general location and nature of the work and the method the applicant proposes
to use in doing the work. The Village Board, or its designee, shall determine
if sufficient information is submitted.
   (c)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to village
excavation work done under the direction of the Village Board, or its designee.
   (d)   Validity of permit. Permits shall be valid for a period of 30 days
from the date of approval, except as provided for under §
6-2-4(g) for pavement replacement.
   (e)   Renewal of permit. If operations have begun under an approved permit
and will continue beyond the 30-day validation period, the permittee shall
apply for a 30-day permit renewal by written request to the Village Board, or
its designee, and payment of a $5 renewal permit fee. Permit renewals shall be
issued at the discretion of the Village Board, or its designee.
   (f)   Village standards; fees.
      (1)   Village standards. All street work shall be performed in accordance
with the current standard specifications for street openings found in this
section and §
6-2-4. Any damaged curb and gutter, sidewalk, or grass-covered area shall be
restored to the condition prior to damage.
      (2)   Fee. The fee for a street opening permit shall be $5 plus actual
village expenses. Permit fees shall be paid to the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, who shall issue his or her
receipt therefor.
   (g)   Insurance required. A permit shall be issued only upon the condition
that the applicant submit to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, satisfactory written evidence that the
applicant has in force and will maintain during the time the permit is in
effect public liability insurance of not less than $500,000 per one person,
$500,000 for one accident, and property damage coverage of not less than
$500,000.
   (h)   Bond.
      (1)   Before a permit for excavating or opening any street or public way
may be issued, the applicant must sign a statement that he or she will
indemnify and save harmless the village and its officers from all liability for
accidents and damage caused by any of the work covered by his or her permit,
and that he or she will fill up and place in good and safe condition all
excavations and openings made in the street, and will replace and restore the
pavement over any opening he or she may make as near as can be to the state and
condition in which he or she found it, and keep and maintain the same in such
condition, normal wear and tear excepted, to the satisfaction of the Village
Board for a period of one year, and that he or she will pay all fines of
forfeitures imposed upon him or her for any violation of any rule, regulation,
or ordinance governing street openings or drainlaying adopted by the Village
Board, and will repair any damage done to existing improvements during the
progress of the excavation in accordance with the ordinances, rules, and
regulations of the village. Such statement shall also guarantee that, if the
village shall elect to make the street repair, the person opening the street
will pay all costs of making such repair and of maintaining the same for one
year.
      (2)   Faulty work or materials shall be immediately replaced by the
permittee upon notice by the village. Failure to correct deficiencies shall
result in a one-year revocation of the right to obtain a street opening permit.
The village shall repair the deficiencies and bill the permittee for all labor,
materials, and equipment used plus 20% for administration.
      (3)   The person who does such restoration shall be responsible therefor
for one year from the date of the completion of the work and shall file a
written guarantee or surety bond to that effect with the village in an amount
determined by the Village Board.
      (4)   Whenever the Village Board shall find that any such work has become
defective within one year of the date of completion, he or she shall give
written notice thereof to the contractor or to his or her surety stating the
defect, the work to be done, the cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by
the Village Board to be reasonably necessary to complete said work. After
receipt of such notice, the contractor or the surety must, within the time
specified, repair the defect or indemnify the village for the cost of doing the
work as set forth in the notice.
      (5)   An annual bond may be given under this section covering all
excavation work done by the principal for one year beginning January 1, which
shall be conditioned as specified above and in the amount determined by the
Village Board as necessary to adequately protect the public and the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 6-2-4 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXCAVATIONS AND OPENINGS.
   (a)   Frozen ground. No openings in the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
public ways shall be permitted between November 15 and April 1 except where it
is determined by the Village Board, or its designee, to be an emergency
excavation.
   (b)   Protection of public.
      (1)   Every opening and excavation shall be enclosed with sufficient
barriers, signing, and such other traffic control devices as may be required by
the Village Board, or its designee, and in accordance with Section VI of the
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Sufficient warning lights shall be
kept on from sunrise to sunset. No open flame warning devices shall be used.
Except by special permission from the Village Board, or its designee, no trench
shall be excavated more than 250 feet in advance of pipe or conduit laying, nor
left unfilled more than 500 feet from where pipe or conduit has been laid.
      (2)   All necessary precautions shall be taken to guard the public
effectively from accidents or damage to persons or property through the period
of the work. Each person making such opening shall be held liable for all
damages, including costs incurred by the village in defending any action
brought against it for damages, as well as cost of any appeal, that may result
from the neglect by such person, or his or her employees, of any necessary
precaution against injury or damage to persons, vehicles, or property of any
kind.
      (3)   Unless otherwise approved, a minimum of one lane of traffic in each
direction shall be provided. Every effort shall be made on the part of the
permittee to provide reasonable access to all properties adjacent to his or her
project. In the event traffic is limited to less than one lane in each
direction, a flagman or temporary traffic control signal shall be provided so
as to safely cycle traffic in each direction past the work area.
      (4)   The permittee shall perform the work in such a manner so as not to
disrupt the flow of traffic in the area or endanger the safety of workmen or
passersby. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to prevent traffic
backup during construction operation. The permittee shall notify the Director
of Public Works 24 hours prior to commencement of excavation of the location
and extent of the excavation, unless the excavation is an emergency excavation
as identified in this subsection (b).
      (5)   When the operations will result in the loss of any utility service
to private properties, the private properties shall be notified in writing or
by personal contact at least 12 hours prior to the loss of service, unless the
operations are part of an emergency excavation as defined in subsection (g)
below.
   (c)   Pavement removal.
      (1)   Removal of existing pavement shall be to neat, straight lines. The
permittee shall make a final saw cut in the existing pavement after
backfilling. Excavations shall be kept to the minimum possible and acceptable
for the convenience and safe performance of his or her work and in accordance
with all applicable codes and regulations.
      (2)   a.   If the pavement is damaged during excavation beyond the
original saw cut lines, it shall be saw cut again along neat, straight lines.
The finished saw cut shall leave a regular rectangular section for pavement
replacement.
         b.   Should the street opening occur within adjacent or close to an
existing patch or require more than one opening within a short distance, the
permittee shall identify and locate the existing patches or additional openings
on the permit application form. The Village Board, or its designee, shall, on
the basis of an on-site inspection, approximate the boundaries of the pavement
replacement area.
      (3)   Pavement replacement areas with the long dimension in the direction
of travel shall have the long dimension parallel with the curb line or the
direction of travel. Pavement replacement areas in concrete pavements shall be
parallel with or at right angles to the direction of travel.
      (4)   The Village Board, or its designee, may order the permittee to
remove and replace up to one full lane width of pavement along the patched or
excavated area. Special care shall be taken with concrete pavement to produce a
vertical face on the existing concrete at the point of the saw cut to ensure a
full depth of concrete at the joint.
   (d)   Excavation.
      (1)   All excavated material shall be piled in a manner such that
pedestrian and motor traffic is not unnecessarily disrupted, gutters shall be
kept clear or other satisfactory provisions made for street drainage, and
natural watercourses shall not be obstructed.
      (2)   Excavated material to be used for backfilling of the trench must be
so handled and placed as to be of as little inconvenience as practical to
public travel and adjoining tenants.
   (e)   Backfilling.
      (1)   All backfill material shall be free from cinders, ashes, refuse,
vegetable, or organic matter, boulders, rocks, or stones greater than eight
inches in their greatest dimension, frozen lumps or other material which, in
the opinion of the Village Board, or its designee, is unsuitable.
      (2)   In refilling the excavation, if there is not sufficient material
excavated suitable for refilling, the deficiency shall be made up with
material, approved prior to use by the Village Board, or its designee, hauled
in.
      (3)   Wherever an excavation crosses an existing utility, pipe, or other
structure, backfill shall be carefully compacted in stages from the bottom of
the excavation. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, telephone, natural gas,
or other service shall not be interrupted by the permittee. It shall be the
permittee’s responsibility to have the various utilities locate and mark their
facilities prior to excavation.
      (4)   Mechanical compaction shall be used on all materials used for
trench backfill. Each layer (12-inch maximum) shall be uniformly compacted to a
dry density of at least 95% of the maximum dry density as determined by the
Modified Proctor Test (ASTM-1557). Compaction or consolidation by flooding
shall not be permitted.
      (5)   All excavations shall be subject to testing by the village.
Backfilled material not achieving the above compaction requirements shall be
removed and recompacted by the permittee. The cost of any retesting shall be
paid by the permittee.
      (6)   When the sides of the trench will not stand perpendicular,
sheathing, and braces shall be used to prevent caving. No timber, bracing,
lagging, sheathing, or other lumber shall be left in any trench. At no time
shall any street pavements be permitted to overhang the excavation.
   (f)   Notice. It shall be the duty of the permittee to notify the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, or Director
of Public Works and all public and private individuals, firms, and corporations
affected by the work to be done at least one business day before such work is
to commence. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, or Director of Public Works shall also be notified at least four
hours prior to backfilling and/or restoring the surface.
   (g)   Pavement replacement.
      (1)   Backfill material shall be left below the original surface to allow
for four inches of three-inch crushed stone and four inches of three-fourths-
inch crushed stone, plus the thickness of the required pavement structure. If
paving will not occur as part of the initial street restoration operation, the
balance of the opening to the original surface elevation shall be backfilled
with compacted three-fourths-inch crushed stone.
      (2)   Bituminous pavement shall be placed the full depth of the existing
pavement or two and one-half inches, whichever is greater. Bituminous pavement
shall be placed in a maximum of a one and one-half-inch base layer and a one-
inch top layer, with each layer compacted to maximum density and shall consist
of the State Department of Transportation Gradation No. 1 for the binder course
and the State Department of Transportation No. 3 for the surface course. The
finished surface shall be smooth and free of surface irregularities, and shall
match the existing pavement and any castings or street appurtenances. Allowable
deviations shall be no more than one-fourths-inch as measured with a ten-foot
straight edge.
      (3)   Concrete pavement shall be placed to the full depth of the existing
pavement or seven inches, whichever is greater. Concrete used shall not contain
calcium chloride. The surface shall be given a light broom finish. The edges
shall be tooled to prevent spalling at the saw cut edge. The surface shall be
evenly and completely sealed with a white pigmented curing compound. The
surface shall be protected from traffic for a minimum of three days. The bars
shall be installed as directed by village officials.
      (4)   In emergency excavations during winter months when it is not
possible to replace the removed pavement with a like material, the excavation
shall be temporarily resurfaced with a minimum of three inches of cold mix
bituminous material. This temporary wearing surface shall be compacted and
rolled smooth. These temporary wearing surfaces shall be removed and replaced
with material as specified above by no later than the following June 1, except
as provided above. Permanent pavements shall be replaced within 60 days of the
date of the permit.
   (h)   Emergency excavation. In the event of an emergency, any person, firm,
or corporation owning or controlling any sewer, gas main, water main, conduit,
or other utility in or under any public street, alley easement, way, or ground,
and his or her agents and employees, may take immediate proper emergency
measures to remedy dangerous conditions for the protection of property, life,
health, or safety without obtaining an excavation permit, provided that such
person, firm, or corporation shall apply for an excavation permit no later than
the next business day, and shall notify the village office immediately.
   (i)   Excavation in new streets limited. Whenever the Village Board
determines to provide for the permanent improvement or repaving of any street,
such determination shall be made not less than 30 days before the work of
improvement or repaving shall begin. Immediately after such determination by
the Village Board, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall notify in writing each person, utility, or
other agency owning or controlling any sewer, water main, conduit, or other
utility in or under said street, or any real property abutting said street,
that all such excavation work in such street must be completed within 30 days.
After such permanent improvement or repaving, no permit shall be issued to open
or excavate said street for a period of five years after the date of
improvement or repaving unless, in the opinion of the Village Board, or its
designee, conditions exist which make it absolutely essential that the permit
be issued. Every effort shall be made to place gas, electric, telephone, and
television cable lines in street terraces.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 6-2-5 OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS.
   (a)   Obstructions and encroachments prohibited. No person shall encroach
upon or in any way obstruct or encumber any street, alley, sidewalk, public
grounds, or land dedicated to public use, or any part thereof, or permit such
encroachment or encumbrance to be placed or remain on any public way adjoining
the premises of which he or she is the owner or occupant, except as provided in
subsections (b) and (c) below.
   (b)   Exceptions. The prohibition of subsection (a) above shall not apply to
the following.
      (1)   Temporary encroachments or obstructions authorized by permit under
§
6-2-6 pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0425.
      (2)   Building materials for the period authorized by the Building
Inspector which shall not obstruct more than one-half of the sidewalk or more
than one-third of the traveled portion of the street, and which do not
interfere with the flow in the gutters.
      (3)   Excavations and openings permitted under §§
6-2-3 and
6-2-4.
   (c)   Standards. Property owners may place certain fixtures on sidewalks
which immediately adjoin their property if the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The property must be located in an area used for commercial uses.
      (2)   The fixture(s) shall not be physically attached to the sidewalk,
any street fixture or any adjacent building, and shall be of a temporary
design.
      (3)   The placement of the fixture shall not significantly impede the
flow of pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk. In no event shall the fixture
reduce the unobstructed sidewalk width to less than three feet at any point.
   (d)   Removal by village for sidewalk obstructions and encroachments. In
addition to any other penalty imposed, if any village enforcement official
determines that a sidewalk is unlawfully obstructed in violation of this
section, he or she shall issue a written notice to the owner or occupant of the
premises which adjoins the obstructed sidewalk directing that the obstruction
be removed within 24 hours.
   (e)   Removal by village for obstruction and encroachments located in the
village streets, alleys, public grounds, or lands dedicated for public use. In
addition to any other penalty imposed, if any village enforcement official
determines that a village street, alley, public grounds, or land dedicated for
public use is obstructed or encumbered, he or she shall issue a written notice
to the property owner of the premises which adjoin the obstructed public area
directing that the obstruction be removed within 24 hours.
   (f)   Failure to remove obstruction.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant fails to remove the obstruction within the
time period established in subection (d) or (e) above respectively, any village
enforcement official shall cause the removal of the obstruction, keeping an
account of the expense of the abatement, and such expenses shall be charged to
and paid by such property owner.
      (2)   Notice of the bill for abatement of the obstruction shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises and shall be payable within ten calendar days from
receipt thereof. Within 60 days after, such costs and expenses are incurred and
remain unpaid, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, shall enter those charges onto the tax roll as a special tax as
provided by the state statutes.
      (3)   The failure of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, to record such claim or to mail such notice or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to place
the village expense on the tax rolls for unpaid bills for abating the
obstruction as provided for in this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 6-2-6 STREET PRIVILEGE PERMIT.
   (a)   When required. Permits for the use of the streets, alleys, sidewalks,
or other public ways or places of the village may be granted to applicants by
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
for the purpose of moving any building or structure or of encumbering the
street, alley, sidewalk, or way with materials necessary in and about the
construction or demolition of any building or structure, provided such
applicant has complied with the other requirements of this section and has
obtained a building permit if required by this code of ordinances. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
request advisory recommendations from the Director of Public Works prior to
issuance of the permit. Village officials may attach conditions to the permit,
including proof of liability insurance.
   (b)   Bond. No street privilege permit shall be issued until the applicant
shall execute and file with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, a bond in an amount determined by the Village
President not exceeding $5,000, conditioned that the applicant will indemnify
and save harmless the village from all liability for accidents or damage caused
by reason of operations under said permit, and will remove such encumbrance
upon termination of the operations and will leave the vacated premises in a
clean and sanitary condition, and repair any and all damage to the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or public property of the village resulting from such
building or moving operations. Upon request, the Village Board may waive this
requirement.
   (c)   Fee. The fee for a street privilege permit shall be in the sum of $5,
plus any actual village costs.
   (d)   Conditions of occupancy. The permission to occupy or obstruct the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds is intended only for use in
connection with the actual erection, alteration, repair, removal, or moving of
buildings or structures and shall be given upon the following terms and
conditions, and subject to revocation without notice by the Village Board,
Director of Public Works, or Building Inspector for violation thereof:
      (1)   Such temporary obstruction shall cover not more than one-third of
any street or alley.
      (2)   Obstructions shall be sufficiently lighted at night so as to be in
full view of the public from all directions.
      (3)   Sidewalk traffic shall not be interrupted, but temporary sidewalks
of not less than four feet in width guarded by a closed fence at least four
feet high on both sides may be maintained during the period of occupancy.
      (4)   The process of moving any building or structure shall be as
continuous as practicable until completed and, if ordered by the Village Board,
shall continue during all hours of the day and night.
      (5)   No building or structure shall be allowed to remain overnight on
any street crossing or intersection, or so near thereto as to prevent easy
access to any fire hydrant.
      (6)   Buildings shall be moved only in accordance with the route
prescribed by the Village Board.
      (7)   Upon termination of the work necessitating such obstruction, all
parts of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds occupied under the
permit shall be vacated, cleaned of all rubbish and obstructions, and placed in
a safe condition for public travel at the expense of the permittee.
   (e)   Termination. All street privilege permits shall automatically
terminate at the end of three months from the date of issuance unless an
earlier termination date is specified thereon at the discretion of the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (f)   Removal by village. In addition to any other penalty imposed, if the
owner or occupant of the premises adjoining any lawfully obstructed sidewalk
shall remove or neglect to remove such obstruction within 24 hours after such
notice from the Village Board to do so, it shall be the duty of the Village
Board to remove such obstruction, and make return of the costs and expenses
thereof to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, who shall enter such cost on the next annual tax roll as a special
charge against the property abutting such obstructed sidewalk, and such sum
shall be levied and collected as other special taxes against real estate.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 66.0425
§ 6-2-7 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (a)   Removal from sidewalks. The owner, occupant, or person in charge of
any parcel or lot which fronts upon or abuts any sidewalk shall keep said
sidewalk clear of all snow and ice. In the event of snow accumulating on said
sidewalk due to natural means and/or by any other means, said sidewalks shall
be cleared of all accumulated snow and/or ice within 24 hours from the time the
snow ceases to accumulate on said sidewalk. Sidewalks are to be kept clear of
snow and ice to a minimum of four feet in width. In the event that ice has
formed on any sidewalk in such a manner that it cannot be removed, the owner,
occupant or person in charge of the parcel or lot which fronts upon or adjoins
said sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk sprinkled with sand and/or salt to permit
safe travel by pedestrians.
   (b)   Notice and removal of snow from sidewalks. If the owner, occupant, or
person in charge of any parcel or lot which fronts upon or adjoins any sidewalk
shall fail to keep said sidewalk clear of snow and ice as set forth in
subsection (a) above. Village law enforcement officers, and other designated
village officials and employees, shall take the following actions.
      (1)   Hazardous conditions. If a village law enforcement officer, or
other designated village officials and employees, determine that the failure to
remove the snow and ice from the sidewalk creates an immediate danger to the
public health and/or safety, he or she shall cause the issuance of a written
notice to the owner, occupant, or person in charge of any parcel or lot
directing that the snow and ice be removed within two hours from the delivery
of the notice. In the event the property owner, occupant, or person in charge
of said parcel or lot is unavailable to receive a written notice, the police
officer, and other designated village officials and employees, shall
immediately cause the removal of the snow and/or ice. The police officer, and
other designated village officials and employees, shall send a written notice
to the last-known address of the property owner notifying him or her that a
hazardous condition existed which required immediate abatement.
      (2)   Snow and ice not to encroach. No person shall push, shove, or in
any way deposit any snow or ice onto any public streets, alley, sidewalk, or
public lands dedicated to public use except for parcels or lots located where
existing buildings are constructed within five feet of the street right-of-way
and the sidewalks exist from the village right-of-way to the curb line. In such
instances, the owners, occupants, and/or employees of parcels or lots shall be
permitted to deposit snow and ice from their sidewalks onto the public streets.
   (c)   Enforcement. All sworn police officers, and other designated village
officials and employees, are hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this section.
   (d)   Continued violations. Each 24-hour period where a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense under this section for enforcement
purposes. Repeated violations or subsequent additional accumulations of snow
and/or ice shall not nullify any pending notice issued under this section.
   (e)   Abatement after notice. Failure of the owner, occupant, or person in
charge of any parcel or lot to cause the removal of snow and/or ice within the
time established under subsection (b)(1) and (b)(2) above after receiving a
written notice shall result in the village causing the removal of said snow
and/or ice.
   (f)   Expense.
      (1)   An account of the expenses incurred by the village to abate the
snow and/or ice hazard shall be kept, and such expenses shall be charged to and
paid by the parcel or lot owner. Notice of the bill for the removal of snow
and/or ice shall be mailed to the last-known address of the owner of the parcel
or lot and shall be payable within ten calendar days from the receipt thereof.
      (2)   Within 60 days after such costs and expenses are incurred and
remain unpaid, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, shall enter those charges onto the tax roll as a special tax as
provided by Wis. Stats. § 66.0907(5).
   (g)   Penalty. In addition to the provisions set forth in this section, any
person, firm, or corporation which violates the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0627 and 66.0907(3)(f) and (5)
§ 6-2-8 TERRACE AREAS.
   (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      TERRACE. As defined in §
6-4-2.
   (b)   Noxious weeds; paving. All that part of the terrace not covered by a
sidewalk shall be kept free and clear of all noxious weeds, and shall not be
paved, surfaced, or covered with any material which shall prevent the growth of
plants, and shall be maintained as a lawn, except in areas specifically
approved by the Village Board, or its designee. Basketball backstops, statuary,
structures, flag poles, and other objects shall not be placed in the terrace
area.
   (c)   Responsibility to maintain. Every owner of land in the village whose
land abuts a terrace is required to maintain, or have maintained by his or her
tenant, the terrace directly abutting such land as provided in this section and
elsewhere in this code. Every owner shall keep mailboxes located on a terrace
free and clear of snow.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
Cross-reference:
   Trees and Shrubs,
Title 6, Chapter 4
§ 6-2-9 VAULTS.
   All vaults and cisterns under sidewalks shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 6-2-10 REQUESTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Requests or petitions by village property owners for new streets, street
resurfacing, curb and gutter, storm sewers, utility work, and sidewalks shall
be presented to the Village Board on or before September 1 to be considered for
installation in the following year.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10)
§ 6-2-11 UNLAWFUL DUMPING ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited,
dump, sort, scatter, or leave any rubbish, stone, wire, earth, ashes, cinders,
sawdust, hay, glass, manure, filth, paper, snow, ice, dirt, grass, leaves,
construction waste, garbage, or other offensive or noxious material in any
public street, sidewalk, alley, or upon any public property, or upon any
property of another, without the express permission of the owner of occupant
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11)
§ 6-2-12 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC DITCHES.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct or cause to be obstructed the free
passage of water in any public gutter, ditch, culvert, swale, or drain, or
place or cause to be placed any rubbish, dirt, sand, gravel, or any other
matter or thing so that the same is likely to be carried by the elements into
any public gutter, ditch, culvert, swale, or drain.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12)
§ 6-2-13 CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   (a)   Method. All curb and gutter within the village shall be laid,
repaired, or replaced by the village pursuant to either of the following two
methods.
      (1)   Petition from abutting property owners. In case of a petition to
the village to build, replace, or repair any curb and gutter signed by the
abutting property owners, such petition shall, whether specifically stated in
the petition or not, authorize said village to build said curb and gutter
abutting the property owned by said petitioners in such manner as the Village
Board shall direct. The work shall be done either directly by the village or by
a private contractor hired by the village with or without bids, and to charge
40% of the cost thereof to the abutting lots or parcels of lands, and the
village shall pay 60%.
      (2)   Village Board determination without petition from abutting property
owners. Whenever the Village Board shall, by resolution, determine that a curb
and gutter be laid, rebuilt, or repaired on any public street within the
village, it shall proceed according to Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0703 and 66.0701.
   (b)   Cost. The entire cost of curb and gutter projects shall be special
assessed to adjacent property owners.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13)
§ 6-2-14 STREET NUMBERS.
   (a)   Buildings to have street numbers. Each principal building in the
village shall be assigned to an official street number by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. All lots and
parts of lots in the village shall be numbered in accordance with a street
numbering map on file in the office of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate. Plats shall be numbered to conform as
nearly as possible to the general scheme of numbering as outlined on the map.
   (b)   Street numbers to be displayed. The owner, occupant, or agent in
charge of the premises shall cause to be affixed and to be maintained when so
affixed to each principal building controlled by him or her the official street
number assigned to that building as provided in subsection (a) above. The
physical numbers provided herein shall be not less than two and one-half inches
high on a background of not less than three inches. Each required number shall
be affixed on the particular building in such a location that it may be easily
and readily seen by a person of ordinary eyesight on the public street or
highway upon which the building abuts. For buildings abutting also on a public
alley, the street number shall also be affixed in such location that it may be
seen in like manner from such alley.
   (c)   Noncompliance. If the owner or occupant of any building neglects for
20 days to duly attach and maintain the proper numbers on the building, the
village shall serve him or her a notice requiring him or her to properly number
the same, and if he or she neglects to do so for ten days after service, he or
she shall be subject to a forfeiture as provided in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14)
CHAPTER 3: DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
6-3-1   Driveway permit required
   
6-3-2   Driveway and culvert location, design, and construction requirements
§ 6-3-1 DRIVEWAY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Purpose. For the safety of the general public, the village shall
determine the location, size, construction, and number of access points to
public roadways within the village limits. It is the village’s intent to
provide safe access to properties abutting public roadways suitable for the
property to be developed to its highest and best use, provided that access is
not deficient or dangerous to the general public.
   (b)   Permit required to construct, reconstruct, alter, or enlarge. No
person, firm, or corporation shall construct, reconstruct, alter, or enlarge
any private driveway within the limits of the dedicated portion of any public
street under the control and jurisdiction of the village without first
obtaining a sidewalk permit therefor as provided by this chapter. A sidewalk
permit is not required when a new sidewalk is to be constructed in conjunction
with the construction of a new principal structure; the sidewalk is included in
the building permit process in such cases.
   (c)   Application. Application for such permit shall be made to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, on a form
provided by the village and shall be accompanied by a drawing accurately
depicting the portion of the proposed private driveway to be constructed,
reconstructed, altered, or enlarged lying within the dedicated portion of the
public street, the dimensions thereof, and a statement of the materials
proposed to be used. There is no fee for a driveway permit. Upon receipt of the
application and the fee if required, unless the proposed private driveway is a
part of construction for a building or other structure for which a building
permit has been applied for, in which case no additional fee is required, the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall approve such application if the proposed driveway complies with the terms
and conditions of this and any other applicable village ordinance.
   (d)   Application provisions. All driveway permit applications shall contain
the applicant’s statement that:
      (1)   The applicant represents all parties in interest, and that such
proposed driveway is for the bona fide purpose of securing access to his or her
property and not for the purpose of parking or servicing vehicles, advertising,
storage or merchandising of goods within the dedicated portion of the village
street, or for any other purpose;
      (2)   The village, notwithstanding the construction of such driveway,
reserves the right to make any changes, additions, repairs, or relocations
within the dedicated portion of the village street at any time, including
relocation, reconstruction, widening, and maintaining the street without
compensating the owner of such private driveway for the damage or destruction
of such private roadway;
      (3)   The permittee, or his or her successors or assigns, agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the village, its officials, officers, agents, or
employees, against any claim or any cause of action for personal injury or
property damage sustained by reason of the exercise of such permit; and
      (4)   The village does not assume any responsibility for the removal or
clearance of snow, ice, or sleet, or the opening of any windows of such
material upon such portion of such driveway within the dedicated portion of the
village street.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 6-3-2 DRIVEWAY AND CULVERT LOCATION, DESIGN, AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   General requirements. The location, design, and construction of
driveways shall be in accordance with the following.
      (1)   General design. Private driveways shall be of such width and so
located that all of such driveways and their appurtenances are within the
limits of the frontage abutting the street of the property served. Driveways
shall not provide direct ingress or egress to or from any street intersection
area and shall not encroach upon or occupy areas of the street right-of-way
required for effective traffic control or for street signs or signals. A
driveway shall be so located and constructed that vehicles approaching or using
it shall have adequate sight distance along the street. Driveway approaches
shall be at least ten feet apart except by special permission from the Village
Board, and driveways shall in all cases be placed wherever possible as not to
interfere with utilities in place.
      (2)   Number. The number of driveways to serve an individual property
fronting on a street shall be one, except where deemed necessary and feasible
by the Village Board for reasonable and adequate service to the property,
considering the safety, convenience, and utility of the street.
      (3)   Island area. The island area in the street right-of-way between
successive driveways or adjoining a driveway and between the highway shoulder
and right-of-way shall constitute a restricted area and may be filled in and
graded only as provided in subsection (a)(6) below.
      (4)   Drainage. The surface of the driveway connecting with rural type
street cross-sections shall slope downward and away from the highway shoulder a
sufficient distance to preclude ordinary surface water drainage flowing onto
the street roadbed.
      (5)   Reconstruction of sidewalks and curb and gutter. When the
construction of a driveway requires the removal of a curb or gutter the new
connections shall be of equivalent acceptable material, and curb returns shall
be provided, or restored, in a neat, workmanlike manner. The driveway surface
shall be connected with the highway pavement and the sidewalk, if any, in a
neat, workmanlike manner. The driveway construction shall include the
replacement of such sidewalk areas which are inadequate or which are or may be
damaged by means of vehicle travel across the sidewalk.
      (6)   Restricted areas. The restricted area between successive driveways
may be filled in and graded only when the following requirements are complied
with.
         a.   The filling or draining shall be to grades approved by the
village and, except where highway drainage is by means of curb and gutter,
water drainage of the area shall be directed away from the street roadbed in a
suitable manner.
         b.   Culvert extensions under the restricted area shall be of the same
size and of equivalent acceptable material as the culvert under the driveway.
Intermediate manholes adequate for cleanout purposes may be required where the
total culvert length is excessive.
         c.   Where no street side ditch separates the restricted area from the
street roadbed, permanent provision may be required to separate the area from
the street roadbed to prevent its use for driveway or parking purposes by
construction of a border, curb, rail, or posts, as may be required by the
Village Boards.
      (7)   Relocation of utilities. Any costs of relocating public utilities
shall be the responsibility of the property owner with approval of the Village
Board or authorized committee thereof necessary before any utility may be
relocated and the driveway installed.
      (8)   Construction across sidewalks. All driveway entrances and
approaches which are constructed across sidewalks shall be of concrete
constructed in accordance with the requirements for sidewalk construction in §
6-2-2 insofar as such requirements are applicable, including thickness
requirements.
      (9)   Variances. Any of the above requirements may be varied by the
Village Board in such instances where the peculiar nature of the property or
the design of the street may make the rigid adherence to the above requirements
impossible or impractical.
   (b)   Special requirements for commercial and industrial driveways. The
following regulations are applicable to driveways serving commercial or
industrial establishments.
      (1)   Width of drive. No part of a private driveway located within the
dedicated area of a public street shall, except as hereinafter provided, have a
width greater than 30 feet measured at right angles to the centerline of said
driveway, except as increased by permissible radii. In instances where the
nature of the commercial or industrial activity or the physical characteristics
of the land would require a driveway of greater width than herein specified,
the Village Board in its discretion may permit a driveway of additional width.
      (2)   Angular placement of driveway. The angle between the centerline of
the driveway and the curb line shall not be less than 45 degrees.
      (3)   Island areas. Where the public sidewalk is adjacent to the curb, an
island of a minimum length of six feet measured along the curb line shall be
placed between each entrance to a village street. The curb shall be left intact
for the length of this island. Where the public sidewalk is remote from the
curb, an island of a minimum length of ten feet measured along the right-of-way
line shall be maintained along each entrance to the village street. All flares
shall be tangent to the curb line. A curb length of not less than three feet
shall be left undisturbed adjacent to each property line to serve as an island
area in the event an adjoining property owner applies for a driveway permit to
serve his or her property.
   (c)   Special requirements for residential driveways. The following
regulations are applicable to driveways serving residential property:
      (1)   Width of driveways. Openings for vehicular ingress and egress shall
be at least ten feet wide at the property line for residential properties, but
shall not exceed 24 feet at the property line and 30 feet at the curb opening.
      (2)   Angular placement. The centerline of the drive may be parallel to
the property line of the lot where access is required or at right angles to the
curb line.
   (d)   Appeal from permit refusal. Any person feeling himself or herself
aggrieved by the refusal of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, to issue a permit for a private driveway may
appeal such refusal to the Village Board within 20 days after such refusal to
issue such permit is made.
   (e)   Prohibited driveways.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall place, construct, locate in,
or cause to be placed, constructed, or located in, any obstruction or structure
within the limits of any public road, highway, or street in the village except
as permitted by this section. As used herein, the word STRUCTURE includes
private driveways, a portion of which extends into any public road, highway, or
street, and which is in non-conformance with this chapter.
      (2)   No driveway shall be closer than ten feet to the extended street
line at an intersection. At street intersections a driveway shall not provide
direct ingress or egress to or from the street intersection area, and shall not
occupy areas of the roadway deemed necessary by the village for effective
traffic control or for highway signs or signals.
      (3)   The grade of that portion of any private driveway or pedestrian
path located within the limits of any public road, highway, or street shall be
such as shall meet the grade of the existing public roadway at its edge, and
not cause an obstruction to the maintenance or clearing of such public roadway.
      (4)   No driveway apron shall extend out into the street further than the
facing of the curb and under no circumstances shall such driveway apron extend
into any gutter area. All driveway entrances and approaches shall be
constructed as not to interfere with the drainage of streets, side ditches, or
roadside areas, or with any existing structure on the right-of-way.
      (5)   No portion of any curb, parapet, or retaining wall, rising above
the grade of the driveway erected by the owner of the premises involved shall
extend beyond the culvert spanning the watercourse located in such public way.
   (f)   Culvert construction and standards.
      (1)   Size. Culverts shall be installed prior to construction work being
commenced on the property served. No pipe smaller than 12 inches in diameter
(or equivalent elliptical or arch pipe) will be allowed. All culverts shall be
constructed of galvanized steel or reinforced concrete, and shall be made of
new manufacture, unless specifically excepted by the Director of Public Works
or Village Engineer.
      (2)   Gauge.
         a.   The minimum wall thickness for the galvanized steel pipe culverts
shall be in accordance with the following:
 
Pipe Diameter   Gauge
15 to 24 inches 16
30 to 36 inches 14
42 to 54 inches 12
60 to 72 inches 10
78 to 84 inches 8
 
         b.   The class of reinforced concrete pipe shall be in accordance with
the following:
 
Height of Cover (in feet) Class of Pipe
0-2                       IV
2-3                       III
3-6                       II
 
      (3)   Drainage. The culverts shall be placed in the ditchline at
elevations that will assure proper drainage.
      (4)   Endwalls. Culverts shall be provided with a concrete or metal apron
endwalls as directed by the Village Engineer.
      (5)   Backfill material. Material used for backfill shall be of the
quantity acceptable to the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works, and
shall be free from frozen lumps, wood, or other extraneous or perishable
materials. The minimum cover, measured from the top of the pipe to the top of
the subgrade, shall be six inches.
      (6)   Erosion control. Erosion control measures shall be implemented as
necessary to control erosion, or as directed by the Village Engineer or
Director of Public Works.
      (7)   Distance. The distance between culverts under successive driveways
shall not be less than ten feet, except as such restricted area is permitted to
be filled pursuant to subsection (a)(6) above.
      (8)   Cost. The property owner shall install the culvert and be
responsible for the cost thereof. The property owner shall keep its culverts
unobstructed and clean.
      (9)   Appeal. Persons may request a variance from the culvert
requirements of this section by filing a written appeals request with the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, who
shall place the matter as an agenda item for the Village Boards’ next meeting.
The Village Board may only waive the requirement for a culvert upon a finding
that unique physical characteristics of the location in question render a
culvert unnecessary. The Village Engineer or Director of Public Works may be
asked to render an opinion on the request.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
CHAPTER 4: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
6-4-1   Statement of policy and applicability of chapter
   
6-4-2   Definitions
   
6-4-3   Authority of Village Forester to enter private premises
   
6-4-4   Interference with Village Forester prohibited
   
6-4-5   Abatement of tree disease nuisances
   
6-4-6   Assessment of costs of abatement
   
6-4-7   Planting of trees and shrubs
   
6-4-8   Trimming
   
6-4-9   Trees and shrubbery obstructing view at intersections or view of
traffic signs
   
6-4-10   Prohibited acts
   
6-4-11   Appeal from determinations and orders
   
6-4-12   Adoption of state statutes
§ 6-4-1 STATEMENT OF POLICY AND APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   Intent and purpose. It is the policy of the village to regulate and
establish policy for the control of planting, removal, maintenance, and
protection of trees and shrubs in or upon all public areas and terrace areas of
the village to eliminate and guard against dangerous conditions which may
result in injury to persons using the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other
public areas; to promote and enhance the beauty and general welfare of the
village; to prohibit the undesirable and unsafe planting, removal, treatment,
and maintenance of trees and shrubs located in public areas; and to guard all
trees and shrubs both public and private within the village against the spread
of disease, insects, or pests.
   (b)   Application. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to trees and
shrubs growing or hereafter planted in or upon public areas and terrace areas,
and also to all trees and shrubs growing or to be planted in or upon any
private premises which shall threaten the life, health, safety, or welfare of
the public or of any public areas.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
§ 6-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD OR TERRACE AREAS.
      (1)   The land between the normal location of the street curbing and
sidewalk. Where there is no sidewalk, the area four feet from the curb line
shall be deemed to be a BOULEVARD for the purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   BOULEVARD shall have the same meaning as TERRACE. Where there are
only sidewalks, the area four feet from the curb shall be deemed a BOULEVARD
areas under this chapter.
   EVERGREEN TREE. Any woody plant normally having one stem or trunk, and
bearing foliage in the form of needles and crowns which extend from ground
level throughout its entire height.
   FORESTER. Person designated by the Village Board as authorized to carry out
provisions of this chapter.
   MAJOR ALTERATION. Trimming a tree beyond necessary trimming to comply with
this chapter.
   PERSON. Person, firm, association, or corporation.
   PUBLIC AREAS. All public parks and other lands owned, controlled, or leased
by the village except the terrace areas.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any tree or shrub or part thereof which, by reason of its
condition, interferes with the use of any public area; infected with a plant
disease; infested with injurious insects or pests; injurious to public
improvements; or endangers the life, health, safety, or welfare of persons or
property.
   PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS. All trees and shrubs located or to be planted in or
upon public areas.
   SHRUBS. Any woody vegetation or a woody plant having multiple stems and
bearing foliage from the ground up.
   TREE. Any woody plant, normally having one stem or trunk, bearing its
foliage or crown well above ground level to heights of 16 feet or more.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
§ 6-4-3 AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE FORESTER TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (a)   (1)   The Village Board may designate a municipal employee or citizen
to perform the duties of Forester under Wis. Stats. Chapter 27, and may
authorize such Forester to perform the duties and exercise the powers imposed
on the Village Board by this chapter.
      (2)   The Village Forester shall annually be appointed by the Village
President, subject to Board confirmation, at the Board’s organizational
meetings.
   (b)   The Village Forester, or his or her authorized representative, may
enter upon private premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
examining any tree or shrub located upon or over such premises and carrying out
any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3)
§ 6-4-4 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE FORESTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with the Village Forester, or his or her
authorized representative, while they are engaged in carrying out any work or
activities authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4)
§ 6-4-5 ABATEMENT OF TREE DISEASE NUISANCES.
   (a)   Dutch Elm and other tree diseases a public nuisance. Whereas the
Village Board has determined that there are many trees growing on public and
private premises within the village, the loss of which would substantially
depreciate the value of public and private property, impair the use and
enjoyment of public and private premises, and erode the tax base of the
village, and that the health and life of such trees is threatened by fatal
diseases such as Dutch Elm disease, which is spread by the elm bark beetles
Scolvtus multistriatus (Eichb.) or Hylurgopinus rufipes (Marsh.), the Village
Board hereby declares its intention to control and prevent the spread of such
disease, and the insect pests and vectors which carry such diseases and
specifically declares Dutch Elm disease and the elm bark beetles which carry
such disease to be public nuisances.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Person, firm, or corporation.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE.
         a.   Fatal or deleterious tree diseases.
         b.   Elm bark beetles Scolvtus multistriatus (Eichb.) or Hylurgopinus
rufipes (Marsh.); Dutch Elm disease.
         c.   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected with the
Dutch Elm disease fungus or in a weakened condition which harbors any of the
elm bark beetles, Scolvtus multistriatus (Eichb.) or Hylurgopinus rufipes
(Marsh.).
         d.   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle destroying
concentrate.
         e.   Any other deleterious or fatal tree disease.
         f.   Any tree or part thereof which by reason of its condition and
location is hazardous or dangerous to persons and property using or upon any
public street, sidewalk, alley, park, or other public or private place,
including the terrace strip between the curb and lot line.
         g.   Any tree or part thereof which is infested by the eastern tent
caterpillar or other defoliating larvae.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Owned or controlled by the village, including without
limitation because of enumeration, public sites, parks, playgrounds, streets,
alleys, sidewalks, boulevards, and the terrace strip between the lot line and
the curb or improved portion of any public way.
   (c)   Inspection.
      (1)   The Village Forester shall inspect or cause to be inspected all
premises and places within the village to determine whether any public nuisance
exists thereon. He or she shall also inspect or cause the inspection of any elm
tree reported or suspected to be infested with the Dutch Elm disease or any elm
bark bearing materials reported or suspected to be infested with elm bark
beetles.
      (2)   Whenever necessary to determine the existence of Dutch Elm disease
or elm bark beetles in any tree, the person inspecting such tree shall remove
or cut specimens from the tree in such manner as to avoid fatal injury thereto,
and deliver such specimens to the Forester who shall forward them to the State
Department of Agriculture at Madison for analysis to determine the presence of
such nuisances.
      (3)   The Forester, and his or her agents or employees, shall have
authority to enter upon private premises at reasonable times for the purpose of
carrying out any of the provisions of this section.
   (d)   Abatement of nuisances; duty of forester.
      (1)   The Forester shall order, direct, supervise, and control the
abatement of public nuisances as defined in this section by spraying, removal,
burning, or by other means which he or she determines to be necessary to
prevent as fully as possible the spread of Dutch Elm disease fungus, other
deleterious tree diseases, or the insect pests or vectors known to carry such
diseases.
      (2)   Whenever the Forester, after inspection or examination, shall
determine that a public nuisance as herein defined exists on public property in
the village, he or she shall immediately abate or cause the abatement of such
nuisance in such manner as to destroy or prevent as fully as possible the
spread of Dutch Elm disease, other deleterious tree diseases, or the inspect
pests or vectors known to carry such disease fungus.
      (3)   a.   When the Forester shall determine with reasonable certainty
that a public nuisance exists upon private premises, he or she shall
immediately serve or cause to be served, personally or by registered mail upon
the owner of such property, if he or she can be found, or upon the occupant
thereof, a written notice of the existence of such nuisance and of a time and
place for a hearing, not less than 14 days after service of such notice, on the
abatement action to be taken. Such notice shall describe the nuisance and
recommend procedures for its abatement, and shall further state that unless the
owner shall abate the nuisance in the manner specified in the notice, or shall
appear at the hearing to show that such nuisance does not exist or does not
endanger the health of trees in the village, the Forester shall cause the
abatement thereof at the expense of the property served. If the owner cannot be
found, such notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
         b.   If, after hearing held pursuant to this subsection (d)(3)b., it
shall be determined by the Village Board that a public nuisance exists, it
shall forthwith order the immediate abatement thereof. Unless the property
owner abates the nuisance as directed within five days after such hearing, the
Forester shall proceed to abate the nuisance and cause the cost thereof to be
assessed against the property in accordance with the procedures provided in
this section. The Forester may extend the time allowed the property owner for
abatement work, but not to exceed ten additional days.
   (e)   Spraying.
      (1)   Whenever the Forester shall determine that any tree or part thereof
is infected with a deleterious or fatal tree disease, or is in a weakened
condition or harbors elm bark beetles, he or she may cause all trees within a
1,000-foot radius thereto to be sprayed with an effective disease destroying
concentrate or other insecticide, following prior authorization by the Village
Board.
      (2)   In order to facilitate the work and minimize the inconvenience to
the public of any spraying operations conducted under this section, the
Forester shall cause to be given advance public notice of such operations by
newspaper, radio, television, public service announcements, or other effective
means and shall also cause the posting of appropriate warning notices in the
areas and along the streets where trees are to be sprayed at least 24 hours in
advance of spraying. When any residue or concentrate from municipal spraying
operations can be expected to be deposited on any public street, the Forester
shall also notify the Street Superintendent who shall take all necessary steps
to make and enforce temporary parking and traffic regulations on such streets
as conditions require. Temporary “no parking” notices shall be posted in each
block of any affected street at least 24 hours in advance of spraying
operations.
      (3)   When appropriate warning notices and temporary “no parking” notices
have been given and posted in accordance with subsection (b) above, the village
shall not allow any claim for damages to any vehicle caused by such spraying
operations.
      (4)   When trees on private property are to be sprayed, the Forester
shall notify the owner of such property and proceed in accordance with the
requirements of subsection (d)(3) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5)
§ 6-4-6 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   (a)   The entire cost of abating any public nuisance or spraying trees as
defined herein shall be charged to and assessed against the parcel or lot
abutting on the street, alley, terrace, boulevard, or parkway upon or in which
such tree is located, or the parcel or lot upon which such tree stands in
accordance with Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0627 or 27.09. The cost of abating any such
nuisance or part thereof which is located in or upon any park shall be borne by
the village.
   (b)   The cost of abating a public nuisance or spraying elm trees or elm
wood located on private premises when done at the direction and under the
supervision of the Forester shall be assessed to the property on which such
nuisance, tree, or wood is located as follows.
      (1)   The Forester shall keep a strict account of the cost of such work
or spraying and the amount chargeable to each lot or parcel and shall report
such work, charges, description of lands to which charged, and names and
addresses of the owners of such lands to the Village Board on or before October
15 of each year.
      (2)   Upon receiving the Forester’s report, the Board shall hold a public
hearing on such proposed charges, giving at least 14 days’ advance notice of
the time, place, and purpose of such hearing to interested persons by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and by
mail to the owner of each property proposed to be charged. Each property owner
shall be notified of the amount proposed to be assessed against his or her
premises and the work for which such charge is being made.
      (3)   After such hearing, the Village Board shall affirm, modify, and
affirm or disapprove such assessments by resolution and shall cause a copy
thereof to be published. Upon adoption and publication of such resolution,
assessments made thereby shall be deemed final.
      (4)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall mail notice of the amount of such final assessment to each
owner of property assessed at his or her last-known address, stating that,
unless paid within 30 days of the date of the notice, such assessment will be
entered on the tax roll as a tax against the property, and all proceedings in
relation to the collection, return, and sale of property for delinquent real
estate taxes shall apply to such assessment.
      (5)   The village hereby declares that, in making assessments under this
section, it is acting under its police power, and no damages shall be awarded
to any owner for the destruction of any diseased or infested tree or wood, or
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6)
§ 6-4-7 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (a)   Purpose. The Village Board hereby states its determination that the
planting, care, and protection of the trees within the village is desirable for
the purposes of beauty, shade, comfort, noise abatement, and economic
betterment, and hereby encourages all persons to assist in a program of tree
planting, care, and protection.
   (b)   Tree planting program. The Village Forester shall recommend to the
Village Board a program for tree planting, care, and protection for public
parks. The Board shall also encourage the planting, care, and protection of
trees and shrubs on private premises within the village.
   (c)   Cottonwood and box elder trees prohibited. No person shall plant
within the village any female tree of the species Populus Deltoides, commonly
called the “cottonwood,” or any tree commonly called the seed-bearing box elder
Acer Negundo, which may now or hereafter become infested with box elder bugs,
and such trees are hereby declared a nuisance. Any person planting any such
trees on his or her premises shall cause the same to be removed. If any owner
shall fail to remove any such tree within 30 days after receiving written
notice from the Village Forester, the village shall cause the removal of such
tree and report the full cost thereof to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, who shall place such charge upon the
next tax roll as a special charge against the premises.
   (d)   Planting of certain trees restricted. No person shall hereafter plant
any catalpa, Chinese Elm, white poplar, weeping willow, evergreen, lombardy
poplar, or any fruit or nut tree in or upon any public street, parkway,
terrace, or other public place within the village unless he or she shall first
secure written permission from the Village Forester, who shall not approve any
such planting if, in his or her opinion, said tree will constitute a nuisance
to the public or adjoining property owners or interfere with the safety of the
public or the operation of any sewer or water system. The Village Forester
shall cause the removal of any tree planted in violation of this subsection
(d).
   (e)   Planting.
      (1)   a.   All new street trees must be selected from a list of approved
trees compiled by the Village Forester. No other species may be planted without
the written approval of the Village Forester. New trees must be single stemmed
with a minimum diameter of one and one-fourths inches measured at six inches
above ground level.
         b.   The tree shall be planted in a well prepared hole at the same
depth as it was originally growing. All trees less than 12 feet high shall be
staked. All trees 12 feet or more in height shall be supported by guy wires in
such a way as not to injure the bark. The support shall be removed after a
year.
         c.   The tree shall be kept well watered and mulched, or cultivated in
a two-foot diameter around its base to conserve moisture and as a protection
from lawn mower damage.
         d.   The good health of all trees planted hereunder shall be
guaranteed for one year by the applicant, after which time such trees shall
become the property of the village.
      (2)   Where required, curbs, and sidewalks must be installed prior to
street tree planting. Distance between the face of the curb and the outer edge
of the sidewalk must be at least five feet. Trees must be planted halfway
between the sidewalk and curb unless underground utilities prevent such
planting. No tree shall be planted closer than two feet from the curb.
      (3)   Trees may not be planted in the terrace closer than:
         a.   Twenty feet to a utility or street lighting pole;
         b.   Fifteen feet to a driveway or alley;
         c.   Six feet to a fire hydrant, water stop box, or gas shut-off. If
possible, allow more distance than six feet;
         d.   Twenty-five feet to the intersection of two streets from either
corner measured on the property line; and
         e.   Twenty-five feet to another tree. (If the other tree is an elm or
other species which is damaged, injured, or diseased and likely to be removed
in the future, then a 35-foot distance to the next nearest healthy tree will
prevail.)
      (4)   New street trees shall not be planted over an existing tree stump
within two years of removal unless the stump is removed to a depth of four
feet.
      (5)   The property owner has the responsibility to locate underground
utilities before digging.
      (6)   Evergreen trees shall not be planted in a terrace area.
   (f)   Unlawfully planted trees. Trees, plants, or shrubs planted within any
terrace or planting easement without the authorization and approval of the
Forester may be removed. The Forester shall notify the abutting owner in
writing, listing the unlawfully planted trees, plants, or shrubs, ordering
their removal, and establishing a reasonable time within which such removal
shall be accomplished. In the event that removal is not to be accomplished
within the time specified, the village may remove such trees, plants, or shrubs
and assess the costs thereof to the owner.
   (g)   Frames. Any person, adjacent to whose land any shade or ornamental
tree or shrub is growing in any street, may, for the propose of protecting such
tree or shrub, surround the same with a suitable box or frame for protection,
but all such work shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the
Village Forester.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7)
§ 6-4-8 TRIMMING.
   (a)   Trees and shrubs standing in or upon any boulevard, public area, or
upon any private premises adjacent to any public right-of-way or public areas
shall be kept trimmed so that the lowest branches projecting over the public
street or alley provide a clearance of not less than 14 feet. The Village
Forester may waive the provisions of this section for newly planted trees if he
or she determines that they do not interfere with public travel, obstruct the
light of any street light, or endanger public safety.
   (b)   The necessity of the pruning may be determined by the Village
Forester.
   (c)   Clearance from sidewalk to lower branches shall not be less than seven
feet. All trees standing upon private property in the village, the branches of
which extend over the line of the street, shall be trimmed so that no branch
shall grow or hang over the line of the sidewalk lower than seven feet above
the level of the sidewalk. No tree shall be permitted to grow in such a manner
as to obstruct the proper diffusion of light from any public lamp.
   (d)   Trimming or pruning of more than two-thirds of the crown shall be
considered to be a major alteration and shall require authorization from the
Village Forester.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8)
§ 6-4-9 TREES AND SHRUBBERY OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS OR VIEW OF
TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no person shall
maintain, plant, or permit to remain on any private or public premises situated
at the intersection of two or more streets or alleys in the village any hedge,
tree, shrub, or other growth which may obstruct the view of the operator of any
motor vehicle or pedestrian approaching such intersection.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to plant, cause to grow, allow to grow,
or maintain any trees, bushes, shrubbery, or vegetation of any kind which is an
obstruction to the clear and complete vision of any traffic sign or driveway
approach to a street in the village. It shall be the duty of every owner of
such tree, bush, shrubbery, or vegetation to remove such obstruction.
   (c)   Any shrub, tree, or other plant which obstructs the view at an
intersection or the view of a traffic sign shall be deemed to be dangerous to
public travel and the Village Forester may order, by written notice, the owner
or occupant of any private place or premises on which there stands a tree or
shrub which unreasonably interferes with or encroaches upon the street or
sidewalk, to take such steps as are necessary to remove such interference. If
such owner or occupant fails, within ten days of receipt of notice, to take
such necessary steps, the Village Forester and/or other village employees shall
order the village employees to remove the interference. The cost of removing
the interference shall be levied and collected as a special tax upon the
property upon which or in front of which such tree or shrub stands.
   (d)   Any person who is an owner or occupant or firm or corporation failing
to obey the written notice of the Village Forester as specified in subsection
(c) above shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a forfeiture as
established in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9)
§ 6-4-10 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (a)   Damage to public trees. No person shall, without the consent of the
owner in the case of a private tree or shrub, or without written permits from
the Village Forester in the case of a terrace-area tree, public tree, or shrub,
perform or cause to be performed by others any of the following acts.
      (1)   Secure, fasten, or run any rope, wire sign, unprotected electrical
installation. or other device or material to, around, or through a tree or
shrub.
      (2)   Break, injure, mutilate, deface, kill, or destroy any tree or shrub
or permit any fire to burn where it will injure any tree or shrub.
      (3)   Permit any toxic chemical, gas, smoke, oil, or other injurious
substance to seep, drain, or be emptied upon or about any tree or shrub or
place cement or other solid substance around the base of the same.
      (4)   Remove any guard, stake, or other device or material intended for
the protection of a public tree or shrub, or close or obstruct any open space
about the base of a public tree or shrub designed to permit access of air,
water, and fertilizer.
      (5)   Attach any sign, poster, notice, or other object on any tree, or
fasten any guy wire, cable, rope, nails, screws, or other device to any tree;
except that the village may tie temporary signs to trees when necessary in
conjunction with street improvement work, tree maintenance work, or parades.
      (6)   Cause or encourage any fire or burning near or around any tree.
   (b)   Excavations. All trees on any parkway or other publicly owned property
near any excavation or construction of any building structure or street work
shall be sufficiently guarded and protected by those responsible for such work
as to prevent any injury to said trees. No person shall excavate any ditches,
tunnels, or trenches, or install pavement within a radius of ten feet from any
public tree without a permit from the Village Forester.
   (c)   Interference with forester. No person shall:
      (1)   Interfere with or prevent any acts of the Forester, or his or her
agents or employees, while they are engaged in the performance of duties
imposed by this section; or
      (2)   Refuse to permit the Forester, or his or her duly authorized
representative, to enter upon his or her premises at reasonable times to
exercise the duties imposed by this section.
   (d)   Refusal to abate nuisance. Permits any public nuisance to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her when ordered by the Forester to
abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10)
§ 6-4-11 APPEAL FROM DETERMINATIONS AND ORDERS.
   Any person who receives a determination or order under this chapter from the
Village Forester and objects to all or any part thereof shall have the right to
appeal such determination or order, subject to the provisions of
Title 4 of this code of ordinances and Wis. Stats. Chapter 68, to the Village
Board within seven days of receipt of the order, and the Village Board shall
hear such appeal within 30 days of receipt of written notice of the appeal.
After such hearing, the Village Board may reverse, affirm, or modify the order
or determination appealed from and the grounds for its decision shall be stated
in writing. The Village Board shall, by letter, notify the party appealing the
order or determination of its decision within ten days after the hearing has
been concluded. The Board shall file its written decision with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11)
§ 6-4-12 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   Wis. Stats. §§ 27.09 and 86.03 are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 27.09 and 86.03
CHAPTER 5: URBAN FORESTRY PROGRAM
Section
   
6-5-1   Definitions
   
6-5-2   Creation and establishment of Village Tree Advisory Committee
   
6-5-3   Term of office
   
6-5-4   Compensation
   
6-5-5   Duties and responsibilities
   
6-5-6   Operation
   
6-5-7   Street tree species to be planted within village limits
   
6-5-8   Spacing
   
6-5-9   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
6-5-10   Distance from street corners
   
6-5-11   Utilities
   
6-5-12   Public tree care
   
6-5-13   Tree topping
   
6-5-14   Pruning, corner clearance
   
6-5-15   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
6-5-16   Removal of stumps
   
6-5-17   Interference with Village Tree Advisory Committee
   
6-5-18   Arborists license and bond
   
6-5-19   Review by Village Board
   
6-5-20   Penalty
§ 6-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks, and all areas owned by the village, or to which the public has free
access as a park or open space.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the village.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-2 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF VILLAGE TREE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created and established a Village Tree Advisory Committee
for the village, which shall consist of five members from the village area,
with at least three currently residing within village limits; and all of which
shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-3 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five appointees shall be three years; except that the term
of two of the initial members shall be for only one year, and two others for
two years, and one other for three years. In the event that a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed
for the unexpired portion of the term by the Village President with the advice
and consent of the Village Board.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-4 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-5 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Advisory Committee to study,
investigate, counsel, and develop, and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the Village Board
and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official
comprehensive “Tree Plan for the Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin.” The
Committee, when requested by the Village Board, shall consider, investigate,
make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter of question coming
within scope of its work.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-6 OPERATION.
   The Advisory Committee shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations with the advice and consent of the Village Board, and keep a
journal of its proceedings in accordance with State Open Meetings Laws, being
Wis. Stats. §§ 19.81 et seq. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for
the transaction of business.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-7 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS.
   (a)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the village. No species other than those included in this list may be planted
as street trees without written permission of the Village Tree Advisory
Committee.
   (b)   The preferred species for the village area shall be determined based
upon recommendations for Zone 4 planting. A detailed list of approved species
shall be created by this Tree Advisory Committee immediately upon
establishment, under the guidance of a professional arborist.
      (1)   Small Trees:
      (2)   Medium Trees:
      (3)   Large Trees:
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-8 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
6-5-7, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet, except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape professional.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-9 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
6-5-7, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet, with exception for decorative trees where breathing grates are
installed.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-10 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS.
   (a)   No street tree shall be planted outside of the allowable setback
requirements, as determined by the property’s zoning classification.
   (b)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fire
hydrant.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-11 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
6-5-7 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-12 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (a)   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (b)   The Village Tree Advisory Committee may remove or cause to be removed,
any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of
its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water
lines, or other public improvements; or is affected with any injurious fungus,
insect, or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street
trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection of said trees is
in accordance with §§
6-5-7 through
6-5-11.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-13 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or village
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the Village Tree Advisory Committee.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-14 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
village shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the
street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic control
device or sign.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-15 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   The village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the village, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the village.
   (b)   (1)   The Village Tree Advisory Committee will notify in writing the
owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of service of notice.
      (2)   In the event of failure of the owners to comply with such
provisions, the village shall have the authority to remove such trees and
charge the cost of removal to said property owner.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-16 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-17 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE TREE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Village Tree Advisory Committee, or any of its agents, while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of
any street trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in
this chapter.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-18 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
village without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee
shall be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service company or village employee doing such work in
the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   (b)   Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the village or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-19 REVIEW BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Tree Advisory Committee. Any person may appeal any ruling or
order of the Tree Advisory Committee to the Village Board, who may choose to
hear the matter and whose decision shall be binding.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 6-5-20 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or plea of guilty, subject to fines and penalties as outlined in state statute.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-17-2006)
TITLE 7: LICENSING AND REGULATION
Chapter
   
1.   LICENSING OF DOGS AND REGULATIONS OF ANIMALS
   
2.   FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGES AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR
   
3.   CIGARETTE LICENSE
   
4.   DIRECT SELLERS
   
5.   MOBILE HOMES
   
6.   REGULATION AND LICENSING OF FIREWORKS
   
7.   STREET USE PERMITS
   
8.   REGULATION OF NONMETALLIC MINING
   
9.   FLEA MARKETS; GARAGE SALES
   
10.   LICENSEES TO PAY LOCAL CLAIMS; APPELLATE PROCEDURES
   
11.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
12.   PAWNBROKER REGULATIONS AND LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS
CHAPTER 1: LICENSING OF DOGS AND REGULATIONS OF ANIMALS
Section
   
7-1-1   Dog and cat licenses required; definitions
   
7-1-2   Rabies vaccination required for license
   
7-1-3   Issuance of dog and cat and kennel licenses
   
7-1-4   Late fees
   
7-1-5   Rabies quarantine
   
7-1-6   Restrictions on keeping of dogs, cats, fowl, and other animals
   
7-1-7   Impoundment of animals
   
7-1-8   Duty of owner in cases of dog or cat bite
   
7-1-9   Animal feces
   
7-1-10   Injury to property by animals
   
7-1-11   Barking dogs or crying cats
   
7-1-12   Prohibited and protected animals, fowl, reptiles, and insects
   
7-1-13   Sale of rabbits, chicks, or artificially colored animals
   
7-1-14   Providing proper food and drink to confined animals
   
7-1-15   Providing proper shelter
   
7-1-16   Neglected or abandoned animals
   
7-1-17   Cruelty to animals and birds prohibited
   
7-1-18   Limitation on number of dogs and cats
   
7-1-19   Trapping of animals
   
7-1-20   Penalties
§ 7-1-1 DOG AND CAT LICENSES REQUIRED; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person in the village
to own, harbor, or keep any dog or cat for more than five months of age after
July 1 of the license year without complying with the provisions of this
chapter relating to the listing, licensing, and tagging of the same.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Mammals, reptiles, and birds.
      AT LARGE. To be off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of some person either by leash or otherwise, but a dog or cat within an
automobile of its owner, or in an automobile of any other person with the
consent of the owner of said dog or cat, shall be deemed to be upon the owner’s
premises.
      CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
      CRUEL. Causing unnecessary and excessive pain or suffering, or
unjustifiable injury or death.
      DOG. Any canine, regardless of age or sex.
      FARM ANIMAL. Any warm-blooded animal normally raised on farms in the
United States and used for food or fiber.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The meaning as appears in Wis. Stats. § 967.02
(5), and includes a HUMANE OFFICER under Wis. Stats. § 169.01, but does not
include a CONSERVATION WARDEN appointed under Wis. Stats. § 23.10.
      NEUTERED. As used herein as describing a dog or cat shall mean a dog or
cat unable to reproduce.
      OWNER. Any person owning, harboring, or keeping a dog or cat and the
occupant on any premises on which a dog or cat remains or to which it
customarily returns daily for a period of ten days; such person is presumed to
be harboring or keeping the dog or cat within the meaning of this section.
      PET. An animal kept and treated as a pet.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 174.05 through 174.10
§ 7-1-2 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED FOR LICENSE.
   (a)   Rabies vaccination. The owner of a dog shall have the dog vaccinated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian within 30 days after the dog reaches
four months of age and revaccinated within one year after the initial
vaccination. If the owner obtains the dog or brings the dog into the village
after the dog has reached four months of age, the owner shall have the dog
vaccinated against rabies within 30 days after the dog is brought into the
village unless the dog has been vaccinated as evidenced by a current
certificate of rabies vaccination. The owner of a dog shall have the dog
revaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian before the date of that
immunization expires as stated on the certificate of vaccination or, if no date
is specified, within two years after the previous vaccination. The certificate
of vaccination shall meet the requirements of Wis. Stats. § 95.21(2).
   (b)   Issuance of certificate of rabies vaccination. A licensed veterinarian
who vaccinates a dog against rabies shall complete and issue to the owner a
certificate of rabies vaccination bearing a serial number and in the form
approved by the village stating the owner’s name and address, the name, sex,
spayed or unspayed, neutered or unneutered, breed and color of the dog, the
date of the vaccination, the type of rabies vaccination administered and the
manufacturer’s serial number, and the date that the immunization expires as
specified for that type of vaccine by the Center for Disease Control of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the village.
   (c)   Copies of certificate. The veterinarian shall keep a copy of each
certificate of rabies vaccination in a file maintained for this purpose until
the date that the immunization expires or until the dog is revaccinated,
whichever occurs first.
   (d)   Rabies vaccination tag. After issuing the certificate of rabies
vaccination, the veterinarian shall deliver to the owner a rabies vaccination
tag of durable material bearing the same serial number as the certificate, the
year the vaccination was given, and the name, address, and telephone number of
the veterinarian.
   (e)   Tag to be attached. The owner shall attach the rabies vaccination tag
or a substitute tag to a collar and a collar with the tag attached shall be
kept on the dog at all times, but this requirement does not apply to a dog
during competition or training, to a dog while hunting, to a dog securely
confined indoors, or to a dog securely confined in a fenced area. The
substitute tag shall be of a durable material and contain the same information
as the rabies vaccination tag. The requirements of this subsection (e) do not
apply to a dog which is not required to be vaccinated under subsection (a)
above.
   (f)   Duplicate tag. The veterinarian may furnish a new rabies vaccination
tag with a new serial number to an owner in place of the original tag upon
presentation of the certificate of rabies vaccination. The veterinarian shall
then indicate the new tag number on the certificate and keep a record in the
file.
   (g)   Cost. The owner shall pay the cost of the rabies vaccination and the
cost associated with the issuance of a certificate of rabies vaccination and
the delivery of a rabies vaccination tag.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 7-1-3 ISSUANCE OF DOG AND CAT AND KENNEL LICENSES.
   (a)   Dog and cat licenses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to own, harbor,
or keep any dog or cat more than five months of age without complying with the
provisions of Wis. Stats. §§ 174.05 through 174.10 relating to the listing,
licensing, and tagging of the same.
      (2)   The owner of any dog or cat more than five months of age on January
1 of any year, or five months of age within the license year, shall annually,
or on or before the date the dog or cat becomes five months of age, pay a
license tax and obtain a license.
      (3)   The minimum license tax under this section shall be $3 for spayed
females or neutered males. The minimum fee for unspayed or unneutered animals
shall be $8. The license year shall commence January 1 and end December 31.
      (4)   Upon payment of the required license tax and upon presentation of
evidence that the dog or cat is currently immunized against rabies, as required
by §
7-1-2, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall complete and issue to the owner a license for such dog or
cat containing all information required by state law. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall also
deliver to the owner, at the time of issuance of the license, a tag of durable
material bearing the same serial number as the license, the name of the county
in which issued and the license year.
      (5)   The owner shall securely attach the tag to a collar and the collar
with the tag attached shall be kept on the dog or cat for which the license is
issued at all times, except as provided in §
7-1-2(e).
      (6)   The fact that a dog or cat is without a tag attached to the dog or
cat by means of a collar shall be presumptive evidence that the dog or cat is
unlicensed. Any law enforcement or humane officer shall seize, impound, or
restrain any dog or cat for which a dog or cat license is required which is
found without such tag attached.
      (7)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, every dog specifically trained to
lead blind or deaf persons is exempt from the dog license tax, and every person
owning such a dog shall receive annually a free dog license from the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, upon
application therefor.
   (b)   Kennel licenses.
      (1)   Any person who keeps or operates a kennel may, instead of the
license tax for each dog required by this chapter, apply for a kennel license
for the keeping or operating of the kennel. Such person shall pay for the
license year a license tax of $30 for a kennel of 12 or fewer dogs and an
additional $3 for each dog in excess of 12. Upon payment of the required kennel
license tax and, if required by the Village Board, upon presentation of
evidence that all dogs over five months of age are currently immunized against
rabies, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall issue the kennel license and a number of tags equal to the
number of dogs authorized to be kept in the kennel. Kennels may only be located
in residential areas following a public hearing and approval by the Village
Board; the Board may attach conditions to such approval as a conditional use
under the village’s zoning code.
      (2)   The owner or keeper of a kennel shall keep at all times a kennel
license tag attached to the collar of each dog over five months old kept by the
owner or keeper under a kennel license, but this requirement does not apply to
a show dog during competition, to a dog securely confined indoors, or to a dog
securely confined in a fenced area. These tags may be transferred from one dog
to another within the kennel whenever any dog is removed from the kennel. The
rabies vaccination tag or substitute tag shall remain attached to the dog for
which it is issued at all times, but this requirement does not apply to a show
dog during competition, to a dog securely confined indoors, or to a dog
securely confined in a fenced area. No dog bearing a kennel tag shall be
permitted to stray or to be taken anywhere outside the limits of the kennel
unless the dog is on leash or temporarily for the purposes of hunting,
breeding, trial, training, or competition.
      (3)   The term KENNEL means any establishment wherein or whereon three or
more dogs are kept.
      (4)   No kennel license shall be issued to the keeper or operator of a
kennel who fails to provide proper food and drink and proper shelter for the
dogs in said kennel, or who neglects or abandons said dogs. Designated
officials shall investigate any complaints regarding the failure to maintain
proper standards or investigate any kennel premises upon his or her own
initiative. Expressly incorporated by reference in this Section as minimum
standards for kennel keepers or operator are the relevant provisions of Wis.
Stats. Chapter 948.
      (5)   a.   A condition of a kennel license shall be that the licensed
premises may be entered and inspected at any reasonable hour by appropriate
village officials without any warrant, and the application for a license
hereunder shall be deemed a consent to this provision.
         b.   Any refusal to permit such inspection shall automatically operate
as a revocation of any license issued hereunder and shall be deemed a violation
of this section. Should any kennel be found to constitute a public nuisance,
the license shall be revoked and the nuisance abated pursuant to village
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 174.053
§ 7-1-4 LATE FEES.
   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall assess and collect a late fee of $5 from every owner of a
dog five months of age or over if the owner failed to obtain a license prior to
April 1 of each year, or within 30 days of acquiring ownership of a licensable
dog, or if the owner failed to obtain a license on or before the dog reached
licensable age. Said late fee shall be charged in addition to the required
license fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 7-1-5 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   (a)   Dogs and cats confined. If a district is quarantined for rabies, all
dogs and cats within the village shall be kept securely confined, tied,
leashed, or muzzled. Any dog or cat not confined, tied, leashed, or muzzled is
declared a public nuisance and may be impounded. All officers shall cooperate
in the enforcement of the quarantine. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall promptly post in at least three
public places in the village notices of quarantine.
   (b)   Exemption of vaccinated dog or cat from village quarantine. A dog or
cat which is immunized currently against rabies, as evidenced by a valid
certificate of rabies vaccination or other evidence, is exempt from the village
quarantine provisions of subsection (a) above if a rabies vaccination tag or
substitute tag is attached to the dog’s or cat’s collar.
   (c)   Quarantine or sacrifice of an animal suspected of biting a person or
being infected or exposed to rabies.
      (1)   Quarantine or sacrifice of dog or cat. A law enforcement or animal
control officer shall order a dog or cat quarantined if the officer has reason
to believe that the animal bit a person, is infected with rabies or has been in
contact with a rabid animal. If a quarantine cannot be imposed because the dog
or cat cannot be captured, the officer may kill the animal. The officer shall
attempt to kill the animal in a humane manner and in a manner which avoids
damage to the animal’s head.
      (2)   Sacrifice of other animals. An officer may order killed or may kill
an animal other than a dog or cat if the officer has reason to believe that the
animal bit a person or is infected with rabies.
   (d)   Quarantine of dog or cat.
      (1)   Delivery to isolation facility or quarantine on premises of owner.
A law enforcement or animal control officer who orders a dog or cat to be
quarantined shall deliver the animal or shall order the animal delivered to an
isolation facility as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours after the
original order is issued, or the officer may order the animal to be quarantined
on the premises of the owner if the animal is immunized currently against
rabies as evidenced by a valid certificate of rabies vaccination or other
evidence.
      (2)   Health risk to humans. If a dog or cat is ordered to be quarantined
because there is reason to believe that the animal bit a person, the custodian
of an isolation facility, or the owner shall keep the animal under strict
isolation under the supervision of a veterinarian for at least ten days after
the incident occurred. In this subsection (d)(2), SUPERVISION OF A VETERINARIAN
includes, at a minimum, examination of the animal on the first day of
isolation, on the last day of isolation and on one intervening day. If the
observation period is not extended and if the veterinarian certifies that the
dog or cat has not exhibited any signs of rabies, the animal may be released
from quarantine at the end of the observation period.
      (3)   Risk to animal health.
         a.   If a dog or cat is ordered to be quarantined because there is
reason to believe that the animal has been exposed to a rabid animal and if the
dog or cat is not currently immunized against rabies, the custodian of an
isolation facility or the owner shall keep the animal leashed or confined for
180 days. The owner shall have the animal vaccinated against rabies between 155
and 165 days after the exposure to a rabid animal.
         b.   If a dog or cat is ordered to be quarantined because there is
reason to believe that the animal has been exposed to a rabid animal but if the
dog or cat is immunized against rabies, the custodian of an isolation facility
or the owner shall keep the animal leashed or confined for 60 days. The owner
shall have the animal revaccinated against rabies as soon as possible after
exposure to a rabid animal.
      (4)   Destruction of a dog or cat exhibiting symptoms of rabies. If a
veterinarian determines that a dog or cat exhibits symptoms of rabies during
the original or extended observation period, the veterinarian shall notify the
owner and the officer who ordered the animal quarantined and the officer or
veterinarian shall kill the animal in a humane manner and in a manner which
avoids damage to the animal’s head. If the dog or cat is suspected to have
bitten a person, the veterinarian shall notify the person or the person’s
physician.
   (e)   Delivery of carcass; preparation; examination by laboratory of
hygiene. An officer who kills an animal shall deliver the carcass to a
veterinarian or local Health Department. The veterinarian or local Health
Department shall prepare the carcass, properly prepare and package the head of
the animal in a manner to minimize deterioration, arrange for delivery by the
most expeditious means feasible of the head of the animal to the State
Laboratory of Hygiene and dispose of or arrange for the disposal of the
remainder of the carcass in a manner which minimizes the risk or exposure to
any rabies virus. The Laboratory of Hygiene shall examine the specimen and
determine if the animal was infected with rabies. The State Laboratory of
Hygiene shall notify the village, the veterinarian or local Health Department
which prepared the carcass and, if the animal is suspected to have bitten a
person, that person or the person’s physician.
   (f)   Cooperation of veterinarian. Any practicing veterinarian who is
requested to be involved in the rabies control program by an officer is
encouraged to cooperate in a professional capacity with the village, the
Laboratory of Hygiene, the local Health Department, the officer involved and,
if the animal is suspected to have bitten a person, the person’s physician.
   (g)   Responsibility for quarantine and laboratory expenses. The owner of an
animal is responsible for any expenses incurred in connection with keeping the
animal in an isolation facility, supervision, and examination of the animal by
a veterinarian, preparation of the carcass for laboratory examination and the
fee for the laboratory examination. If the owner is unknown, the county is
responsible for these expenses.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 7-1-6 RESTRICTIONS ON KEEPING OF DOGS, CATS, FOWL AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (a)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person within the village
to own, harbor, or keep any dog or cat which:
      (1)   Habitually pursues any vehicle upon any public street, alley, or
highway in the village;
      (2)   Assaults or attacks any person, or destroys property;
      (3)   Is at large within the limits of the village;
      (4)   Habitually barks or howls to the annoyance of any person or persons
(see §
7-1-12);
      (5)   Kills, wounds, or worries any domestic animal;
      (6)   Is known by such person to be infected with rabies or to have been
bitten by an animal known to have been infected with rabies; and/or
      (7)   In the case of a dog, is unlicensed.
   (b)   Vicious dogs and animals.
      (1)   No vicious dog shall be allowed off the premises of its owner
unless muzzled or on a leash in charge of the owner or a member of the owner’s
immediate family over 16 years of age. For purposes of enforcing this section,
a dog shall be deemed as being of a vicious disposition if, within any 12-month
period it bites two or more persons or inflicts serious injury to one person in
unprovoked circumstances off the owner’s premises.
      (2)   No person shall harbor or permit to remain on his or her premises
any animal that is habitually inclined toward attacking persons or animals,
destroying property, barking excessively, or making excessive noises, or
running after automobiles.
   (c)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person having in his or her possession or ownership any animal
or fowl shall allow the same to run at large within the village. The owner of
any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall keep his or her animal tied
or enclosed in a proper enclosure so as not to allow said animal to interfere
with the passing public or neighbors. Any animal running at large unlicensed
and required by state law or village ordinance to be licensed shall be seized
and impounded by a humane or law enforcement officer, or animal warden.
      (2)   A dog or cat shall not be considered to be running at large if it
is on a leash not to exceed ten feet in length and under control of a person
physically able to control it when the animal is off of the owner’s premises.
   (d)   Owner’s liability for damage caused by dogs; penalties. The provisions
of Wis. Stats. § 174.02, relating to the owner’s liability for damage caused by
dogs together with the penalties therein set forth, are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 7-1-7 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (a)   Animal control agency.
      (1)   The village may contract with or enter into an agreement with such
person, persons, organization, or corporation to provide for the operation of
an animal shelter, impoundment of stray animals, confinement of certain
animals, disposition of impoundment animals, and for assisting in the
administration of rabies vaccination programs.
      (2)   The village does hereby delegate to any such animal control agency
the authority to act pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (b)   Impounding of animals. In addition to any penalty hereinafter provided
for a violation of this chapter, a law enforcement or animal control officer
may impound any dog, cat, or other animal which habitually pursues any vehicle
upon any street, alley, or highway of this village, assaults, or attacks any
person, is at large within the village, habitually barks, cries or howls,
kills, wounds, or worries any domestic animal or is infected with rabies. In
order for an animal to be impounded, the impounding officer must see or hear
the violation of this section or have in his or her possession a signed
statement of a complaining witness made under oath alleging the facts regarding
the violation, and containing an agreement to reimburse the village for any
damages it sustains for improper or illegal seizure.
   (c)   Claiming animal; disposal of unclaimed animals. After seizure of
animals under this section by a law enforcement or animal control officer, the
animal shall be impounded. The officer shall notify the owner, personally or
through the U.S. mail, if such owner be known to the officer or can be
ascertained with reasonable effort, but if such owner be unknown or
unascertainable, the officer shall post written notice in three public places
in the village, giving a description of the animal, stating where it is
impounded, and the conditions for its release after the officer or warden has
taken such animal into his or her possession. If, within seven days after such
notice, the owner does not claim such animal, the officer may dispose of the
animal in a proper and humane manner; provided, if an animal before being
impounded has bitten a person, the animal shall be retained in the animal
shelter for ten days for observation purposes. Within such times, the owner may
reclaim the animal upon payment of impoundment fees, such fees to be
established by resolution of the Village Board. No animal shall be released
from the pound without being properly licensed if so required by state law or
village ordinance.
   (d)   Sale of impounded animals. If the owner doesn’t reclaim the animal
within seven days, the animal warden may sell the animal to any willing buyer.
   (e)   Village not liable for impounding animals. The village and/or its
animal control agency shall not be liable for the death of any animal which has
been impounded or disposed of pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 7-1-8 DUTY OF OWNER IN CASES OF DOG OR CAT BITE.
   (a)   Every owner or person harboring or keeping a dog or cat who knows that
such dog or cat has bitten any person shall immediately report such fact to the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, or
Police Department, and shall keep such dog or cat confined for not less than
ten days or for such period of time as directed.
   (b)   The owner or keeper of any such dog or cat shall surrender the dog or
cat to a law enforcement or humane officer upon demand for examination.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 7-1-9 ANIMAL FECES.
   The owner or person in charge of any dog or other animal shall not permit
solid fecal matter of such animal to deposit on any street, alley, or other
public or private property, unless such matter is immediately removed therefrom
by said owner or person in charge. This section shall not apply to a person who
is visually or physically handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 7-1-10 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing an animal, dog, or
cat to permit such animal, dog, or cat to go upon any parkway or private lands
or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises and break,
bruise, tear up, crush, or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree, or
garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10)
§ 7-1-11 BARKING DOGS OR CRYING CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or harbor any dog
which habitually barks, howls, or yelps, or any cat which habitually cries or
howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in
such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who
are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. A dog or cat is considered to be in violation of this section
when two formal, written complaints are filed with the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, or Police Department within
a four-week period.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11)
§ 7-1-12 PROHIBITED AND PROTECTED ANIMALS, FOWL, REPTILES, AND INSECTS.
   (a)   Protected animals; prohibition on possession, sale, or purchase. It
shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to possess with intent
to sell, or to buy or attempt to buy any of the following animals, alive or
dead, or any part or product thereof within the village.
      (1)   Any animal that appears on the endangered species list as
designated by the United States Secretary of the Interior and published in the
Code of Federal Regulations pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1969
(Pub. Law No. 135, 91st Congress), being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 et seq.
      (2)   Hawk, owl, or eagle.
   (b)   Exceptions. The regulations in subsection (a) above shall not be
construed to forbid or restrict the importation or use of the plumage, skin,
body, or any part thereof legally collected for use by the Native Americans for
ceremonial purposes or in the preservation of their tribal customs and
heritage; and shall not restrict the lawful importation, possession, purchase,
or sale of any species by any public agency, institute of higher learning,
persons holding federal permits, including those holding scientific collectors
permits issued by the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources, or to
any person or organization licensed to present a circus where such animals are
exhibited for entertainment.
   (c)   Wild animals; prohibition on keeping. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, maintain, possess, or control any poisonous reptile or insect;
or any other dangerous or carnivorous animal of wild, vicious, or dangerous
propensities within the village. Specifically, it shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, maintain, possess, or control any of the following:
      (1)   All poisonous animals and reptiles, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes, chimpanzees (Pan); gibbons (Hylobates); gorillas (Gorilla);
orangutans (Pongo); and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (Papoi, Mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (7)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia), 30 inches or longer;
      (8)   Constrictor snakes;
      (9)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (10)   Deer (Cervidae); includes all members of the deer family (for
example, deer, elk, antelope, or moose);
      (11)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
      (12)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (13)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (14)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (15)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
      (16)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (17)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (18)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (19)   Monkeys, old world (Cercopithecidae);
      (20)   Ostriches (Strathio);
      (21)   Pumas (Felis concolor), includes cougars, mountain lions, and
panthers;
      (22)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
      (23)   Sharks (Chondrichthyes);
      (24)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (25)   Tigers (Panthera tigris);
      (26)   Wolves (Ganis lupus); and
      (27)   Poisonous insects.
   (d)   Farm animals; prohibition on keeping. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, maintain, possess, or control any of the following farm animals
within the village:
      (1)   Cattle;
      (2)   Chickens, turkeys;
      (3)   Donkeys, mules;
      (4)   Horses, ponies;
      (5)   Sheep, llamas, and alpacas;
      (6)   Goats;
      (7)   Swine, pigs (except for Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs, which are
allowed if spayed or neutered and housed indoors); and
      (8)   Any animal raised for bearing purposes unless otherwise permitted
elsewhere in this code.
   (e)   Exceptions. The prohibitions of subsections (c) and (d) above shall
not apply where the creatures are in the care, custody, or control of a
veterinarian for treatment; agricultural fairs; 4-H Club shows or projects; a
display for judging purposes; an itinerant or transient carnival, circus, or
other show for entertainment; dog or cat shows; public or private educational
institutions; licensed pet shops; or zoological gardens; if:
      (1)   Their location conforms to the provisions of the applicable zoning
ordinance of the village;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters so constructed as to prevent
their escape; and
      (4)   No person lives or resides within 100 feet of the quarters in which
the animals are kept.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 7-1-13 SALE OF RABBITS, CHICKS, OR ARTIFICIALLY COLORED ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person may sell, offer for sale, raffle, give as a prize or
premium, use as an advertising device, or display living chicks, ducklings,
other fowl, or rabbits that have been dyed or otherwise colored artificially.
   (b)   (1)   No person may sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away living
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl without providing proper brooder facilities
for the care of such chicks, ducklings, or other fowl during the time they are
in such person’s care, custody, or control.
      (2)   No retailer, as defined in Wis. Stats. § 100.30(2)(g), may sell,
offer for sale, barter or give away living baby rabbits, baby chicks,
ducklings, or other fowl under two months of age, in any quantity less than
six, unless the purpose of selling these animals is for agricultural, wildlife,
or scientific purposes.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 948.11
§ 7-1-14 PROVIDING PROPER FOOD AND DRINK TO CONFINED ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any animal
may refuse or neglect to supply the animal with a sufficient supply of food and
water as prescribed in this section.
   (b)   The food shall be sufficient to maintain all animals in good health.
   (c)   If potable water is not accessible to the animals at all times, it
shall be provided daily and in sufficient quantity for the health of the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 948.13
§ 7-1-15 PROVIDING PROPER SHELTER.
   (a)   Proper shelter.
      (1)   No person owning or responsible for confining or impounding any
animal may fail to provide the animal with proper shelter as prescribed in this
section.
      (2)   In the case of farm animals, nothing in this section shall be
construed as imposing shelter requirements or standards more stringent than
normally accepted husbandry practices in the particular county where the animal
or shelter is located.
   (b)   Indoor standards. Minimum indoor standards of shelter shall include:
      (1)   Ambient temperatures. The ambient temperature shall be compatible
with the health of the animal.
      (2)   Ventilation. Indoor housing facilities shall be adequately
ventilated by natural or mechanical means to provide for the health of the
animals at all times.
   (c)   Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall include:
      (1)   Shelter from sunlight. When sunlight is likely to cause heat
exhaustion of an animal tied or caged outside, sufficient shade by natural or
artificial means shall be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight.
As used in this subsection (c), CAGED does not include farm fencing used to
confine farm animals; and
      (2)   Shelter from inclement weather.
         a.   Animals generally. Natural or artificial shelter appropriate to
the local climatic conditions for the species concerned shall be provided as
necessary for the health of the animal.
         b.   Dogs. If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors under
weather conditions which adversely affect the health of the dog, a shelter of
suitable size to accommodate the dog shall be provided.
   (d)   Space standards. Minimum space requirements for both indoor and
outdoor enclosures shall include:
      (1)   Structural strength. The housing facilities shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animals from injury and to
contain the animals; and
      (2)   Space requirements. Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained
so as to provide sufficient space to allow each animal adequate freedom of
movement. Inadequate space may be indicated by evidence of debility, stress, or
abnormal behavior patterns.
   (e)   Sanitation standards. Minimum standards of sanitation for both indoor
and outdoor enclosures shall include periodic cleaning to remove excreta and
other waste materials, dirt, and trash so as to minimize health hazards.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15)
§ 7-1-16 NEGLECTED OR ABANDONED ANIMALS.
   (a)   Neglected or abandoned animals.
      (1)   No person may abandon any animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer or animal warden may remove, shelter,
and care for an animal found to be cruelly exposed to the weather, starved, or
denied adequate water, neglected, abandoned, or otherwise treated in a cruel
manner and may deliver such animal to another person to be sheltered, cared
for, and given medical attention, if necessary. In all cases the owner, if
known, shall be immediately notified and such officer, or other person, having
possession of the animal shall have a lien thereon for its care, keeping, and
medical attention, and the expense of notice.
      (3)   If the owner or custodian is unknown and cannot, with reasonable
effort, be ascertained or does not, within five days after notice, redeem the
animal by paying the expenses incurred, it may be treated as a stray and dealt
with as such.
      (4)   Whenever in the opinion of any such officer or animal warden an
animal is hopelessly injured or diseased so as to be beyond the probability of
recovery, it shall be lawful for such officer to kill such animal and the owner
thereof shall not recover damages for the killing of such animal unless he or
she shall prove that such killing was unwarranted.
   (b)   Injured animals. No person who owns, harbors, or keeps any animal
shall fail to provide proper medical attention to such animal when and if such
animal becomes sick or injured. In the event the owner of such animal cannot be
located, the village or any animal control agency with whom the village has an
agreement or contract shall have the authority to take custody of such animal
for the purpose of providing medical treatment, and the owner thereof shall
reimburse the person or organization for the costs of such treatment.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-16)
§ 7-1-17 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND BIRDS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Acts of cruelty prohibited. No person except a law enforcement or
animal control officer in the pursuit of his or her duties shall, within the
village, shoot or kill or commit an act of cruelty to any animal or bird, or
disturb any bird’s nests or bird’s eggs.
   (b)   Leading animal from motor vehicle. No person shall lead any animal
upon a village street from a motor vehicle, or from a trailer or semi-trailer
drawn by a motor vehicle.
   (c)   Use of poisonous and controlled substances. No person may expose any
pet animal owned by another to any known poisonous substance or controlled
substance listed in Wis. Stats. § 961.01, whether mixed with meat or other food
or not, where it is reasonable to anticipate the substance may be eaten by such
animal or for the purpose of harming the animal. This subsection (c) shall not
apply to poison used on one’s own premises and designed for the purpose of
rodent and pest extermination, nor the use of a controlled substance used in
accepted veterinarian practice or in research by persons or organizations
regularly engaged in such research.
   (d)   Use of certain devices prohibited. No person may directly or
indirectly, or by aiding, abetting, or permitting the doing thereof either put,
place, fasten, use, or fix upon or to any animal used or readied for use for a
work purpose or for use in an exhibition, competition, rodeo, circus, or other
performance any of the following devices: a bristle bur, tack bur, or like
device; or a poling device used to train a horse to jump which is charged with
electricity or to which have been affixed nails, tacks, or other sharp points.
   (e)   Shooting at caged or staked animals. No person may instigate, promote,
aid, or abet as a principal, agent, employee, participant, or spectator, or
participate in the earnings from or intentionally maintain or allow any place
to be used for the shooting, killing, or wounding with a firearm or any deadly
weapon any animal that is tied, staked out, caged, or otherwise intentionally
confined in a human-made enclosure, regardless of size.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-17)
§ 7-1-18 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (a)   Purpose. The keeping of a large number of dogs and cats within the
village for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances,
is detrimental to, healthful and comfortable life in such areas. The keeping of
a large number of dogs and cats is, therefore, declared a public nuisance.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
      DOG. Any canine, regardless of age or sex.
      RESIDENTIAL LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a
dwelling, platted or unplatted, and under common ownership. For the purpose of
this section, any vacant parcel or parcels adjoining a dwelling and under the
same ownership shall constitute one lot.
   (c)   Number limited.
      (1)   No family shall own, harbor, or keep in its possession more than
two dogs and two cats on any residential zoned lot without the prior approval
of the Village Board except that a litter of pups or kittens or a portion of a
litter may be kept for not more than 12 weeks from birth. If more than one
family resides on a residential lot, then only a total of two dogs and two cats
shall be allowed on the residential lot unless the prior approval is obtained
from the Village Board. For the purposes of this section, the term FAMILY shall
be defined as one or more persons.
      (2)   The above requirement may be waived with the approval of the
Village Board when a kennel license has been issued by the village pursuant to
§
7-1-3(b). Such application for waiver shall first be made to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-18)
§ 7-1-19 TRAPPING OF ANIMALS.
   (a)   In the interest of public health and safety, it shall be unlawful for
any person, in or on village-owned land within the village, to set, place, or
tend any trap for the purpose of trapping, killing, catching, wounding,
worrying, or molesting any animal, except by use of live box-type traps only.
LIVE BOX-TYPE TRAPS shall be defined as those traps which capture and hold an
animal in an alive and unharmed condition.
   (b)   This section shall prohibit the use of all traps other than live traps
as described above, including, but not limited to, traps commonly known as leg
traps, pan-type traps, or other traps designed to kill, wound, or close upon a
portion of the body of an animal.
   (c)   All such traps set, placed, or tended shall comply with Wis. Stats.
Chapter 29 as they relate to trapping.
   (d)   This section shall not apply to trapping on private property.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit or hinder the village, or its
employees or agents, from performing their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-19)
§ 7-1-20 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person violating §§
7-1-15,
7-1-16,
7-1-17,
7-1-18, or
7-1-19 shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 and not more than
$200. This section shall also permit the Village Attorney to apply to the court
of competent jurisdiction for a temporary or permanent injunction restraining
any person from violating any aspect of this chapter.
   (b)   (1)   Anyone who violates §§
7-1-1,
7-1-2,
7-1-3,
7-1-4, and
7-1-5 or Wis. Stats. Chapter 174, shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less
than $25 and not more than $200 for the first offense, and not less than $100
and not more than $400 for any subsequent offenses.
      (2)   An owner who refuses to comply with an order issued under §
7-1-5 to deliver an animal to an officer, isolation facility, or veterinarian,
or who does not comply with the conditions of an order that an animal be
quarantined shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or
imprisoned not more than 60 days or both.
   (c)   Any person who violates §§
7-1-6 through
7-1-14 shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $25 and not more than
$100 for the first violation, and not less than $50 and not more than $200 for
subsequent violations.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-20)
CHAPTER 2: FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGES AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR
Section
Article A: Fermented Malt Beverages and Intoxicating Liquor
   
7-2-1   State statute adopted
   
7-2-2   Definitions
   
7-2-3   License required
   
7-2-4   Classes of licenses
   
7-2-5   Licenses fees
   
7-2-6   Application for license
   
7-2-7   Qualifications of applicants and premises
   
7-2-8   Investigation
   
7-2-9   Approval of application
   
7-2-10   Granting or denial of license
   
7-2-11   Transfer and lapse of license
   
7-2-12   Numbering of license
   
7-2-13   Posting licenses; defacement
   
7-2-14   Conditions of license
   
7-2-15   Closing hours
   
7-2-16   Restrictions on temporary fermented malt beverage or wine licenses
   
7-2-17   Revocation and suspension of licenses; non-renewal
   
7-2-18   Nonalcohol events for underage persons on licensed premises
   7-2-19 through 7-2-29   Reserved for future use
Article B: Operator’s License
   
7-2-30   Operator’s license required
   
7-2-31   Procedure upon application
   
7-2-32   Duration
   
7-2-33   Operator’s license fee; provisional license
   
7-2-34   Issuance or denial of operator’s license
   
7-2-35   Training course
   
7-2-36   Display of license
   
7-2-37   Revocation of operator’s license
   7-2-38 through 7-2-39   Reserved for future use
Article C: Penalties
   
7-2-40   Penalties
ARTICLE A: FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGES AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 7-2-1 STATE STATUTE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapter 125, relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and fermented malt beverages, except provisions therein
relating to penalties to be imposed, are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Any act required to be
performed or prohibited by any statute incorporated herein by reference is
required or prohibited by this chapter. Any future amendment, revisions, or
modifications of the statutes incorporated herein are intended to be made a
part of this chapter in order to secure uniform statewide regulation of alcohol
beverage control.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. Chapter 125
§ 7-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the terms ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, INTOXICATING
LIQUORS, PRINCIPAL BUSINESS, LEGAL DRINKING AGE, PREMISES, SELL, SOLD, SALE,
RESTAURANT, CLUB, RETAILER, PERSON, FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGES, WHOLESALERS,
RETAILERS, OPERATORS, and NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES shall have the meaning
given them by Wis. Stats. Chapter 125.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 7-2-3 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall vend, sell, deal, or traffic in or
have in his or her possession with intent to vend, sell, deal, or traffic in
or, for the purpose of evading any law or ordinance, give away any intoxicating
liquor or fermented malt beverage in any quantity whatever, or cause the same
to be done, without having procured a license as provided in this chapter, nor
without complying with all the provisions of this chapter, and all statutes and
regulations applicable thereto, except as provided by Wis. Stats. §§
125.16,125.27,125.28, and 125.51.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 7-2-4 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (a)   Retail “Class A” intoxicating liquor license. A retail “Class A”
intoxicating liquor license, when issued by the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, under the authority of the Village
Board, shall permit its holder to sell, deal, and traffic in intoxicating
liquors only in original packages or containers and to be consumed off the
premises so licensed.
   (b)   Retail “Class B” intoxicating liquor license. A retail “Class B”
intoxicating liquor license, when issued by the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, under authority of the Village
Board, shall permit its holder to sell, deal, and traffic in intoxicating
liquors to be consumed by the glass only on the premises so licensed and in the
original package or container in multiples not to exceed four liters at any one
time, to be consumed off the premises, except that wine may be sold in the
original package or otherwise in any other quantity to be consumed off the
premises.
   (c)   Class “A” fermented malt beverage retailer’s license. A Class “A”
retailer’s fermented malt beverage license, when issued by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, under the
authority of the Village Board, shall entitle the holder thereof to possess,
sell, or offer for sale fermented malt beverages only for consumption away from
the premises where sold and in the original packages, containers, or bottles.
Such license may be issued after July 1. The license shall expire on the
following June 30.
   (d)   Class “B” fermented malt beverage retailer’s license.
      (1)   License. A Class “B” fermented malt beverage retailer’s license,
when issued by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, under the authority of the Village Board, shall entitle the
holder thereof to possess, sell, or offer for sale fermented malt beverages,
either to be consumed upon the premises where sold or away from such premises.
The holder may also sell beverages containing less than one-half of a percentum
of alcohol by volume, without obtaining a special license to sell such
beverages. Such license may be issued after July 1. The license shall expire on
the following June 30.
      (2)   Application. Class “B” licenses may be issued to any person
qualified under Wis. Stats. § 125.04(5). Such licenses may not be issued to any
person acting as agent for or in the employ of another except that this
restriction does not apply to a hotel or restaurant which is not a part of or
located on the premises of any mercantile establishment, or to a bona fide
club, society, or lodge that has been in existence for at least six months
before the date of application. A Class “B” license for a hotel, restaurant,
club, society, or lodge may be issued in the name of an officer who shall be
personally responsible for compliance with this chapter. Except as provided in
Wis. Stats. § 125.32, Class “B” licenses may not be issued to brewers or
fermented malt beverages wholesalers.
      (3)   Conditions of issuance.
         a.   A Class “B” fermented malt beverage license which is not issued
to a “Class B” intoxicating liquor license holder or applicant may be issued
only for use in a restaurant.
         b.   A RESTAURANT is defined in Wis. Stats. § 97.01.
         c.   A restaurant, for which a Class “B” license may be issued under
this section is one in which the sale of alcohol beverages accounts for less
than 50% of gross receipts whose principal business is the sale of food and
does not have a barroom.
         d.   The village exempts one property from the above restaurant
requirements, described as follows:
 
“Parcel number 152, plat 9-2, prt NE-SW as described in deeds 134 pg 416 ex.
vol. 497/418, owned by Warren Hodge, and further described as: a commercial
building consisting of a barroom, kitchen and restaurant, recreation and dance
floor rooms, office and restrooms occupying a total square foot area of 2,466
feet.”
 
   (e)   Temporary Class “B” fermented malt beverage license.
      (1)   License. As provided in Wis. Stats. § 125.26(1) and (6), temporary
Class “B” fermented malt beverage licenses may be issued to bona fide clubs, to
county or local fair associations or agricultural societies, to churches,
lodges, or societies that have been in existence for at least six months before
the date of application, and to posts of veterans’ organizations authorizing
the sale of fermented malt beverages at a particular picnic or similar
gathering, at a meeting of the post, or during a fair conducted by the fair
association or agricultural society. A license issued to a county or district
fair licenses the entire fairgrounds where the fair is being conducted and all
persons engaging in retail sales of fermented malt beverages from leased stands
on the fairgrounds. The county or district fair to which the license is issued
may lease stands on the fairgrounds to persons who may engage in retail sales
of fermented malt beverages from the stands while the fair is being held. Such
license is valid for dates as approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   Application. Application for such license shall be signed by the
president or corresponding officer of the society or association making such
application, and shall be filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, together with the appropriate license
fee for each day for which the license is sought. Any person fronting for any
group other than the one applied for shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to a forfeiture of $200 and will be ineligible to apply for a temporary Class
“B” license for one year. The license shall specify the hours and dates of
license validity. The application shall be filed a minimum of 15 days prior to
the meeting of the Village Board at which the application will be considered
for events of more than three consecutive days. If the application is for a
license to be used in a village park, the applicant shall specify the main
point of sale facility.
   (f)   Temporary “Class B” wine license.
      (1)   License. Notwithstanding Wis. Stats. § 125.68(3), temporary “Class
B” licenses may be issued to bona fide clubs, to county or local fair
associations or agricultural societies, to churches, lodges, or societies that
have been in existence for at least six months before the date of application,
and to posts of veterans’ organizations authorizing the sale of wine containing
not more than 6% alcohol by volume in an original package, container, or
bottle, or by the glass if the wine is dispensed directly from an original
package, container, or bottle at a particular picnic or similar gathering, at a
meeting of the post, or during a fair conducted by the fair association or
agricultural society. No fee may be charged to a person who, at the same time,
applies for a temporary “Class B” beer license under Wis. Stats. § 125.26(6),
or the same event. A license issued to a county or district fair licenses the
entire fairgrounds where the fair is being conducted and all persons engaging
in retail sales of wine containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume from
leased stands on the fairgrounds. The county or district fair to which the
license is issued may lease stands on the fairgrounds to persons who may engage
in retail sales of wine containing not more than 6% alcohol by volume from the
stands while the fair is being held.
      (2)   Application. Application for such license shall be signed by the
president or corresponding officer of the society or association making such
application, and shall be filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, together with the appropriate license
fee for each day for which the license is sought. Any person fronting for any
group other than the one applied for shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to a forfeiture of $200 and will be ineligible to apply for a temporary “Class
B” wine license for one year. The license shall specify the hours and dates of
license validity. The application shall be filed a minimum of 15 days prior to
the meeting of the Village Board at which the application will be considered
for events of more than three consecutive days. If the application is for a
license to be used in a village park, the applicant shall specify the main
point of sale facility.
   (g)   Wholesaler’s license. A wholesaler’s fermented malt beverage license,
when issued by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, under authority of the Village Board, shall entitle the holder
thereof to possess, sell, or offer for sale fermented malt beverages only in
original packages or containers to dealers, not to be consumed in or about the
premises of said wholesaler.
   (h)   Retail “Class C” licenses.
      (1)   In this subsection (h), BARROOM means a room that is primarily used
for the sale or consumption of alcohol beverages.
      (2)   A “Class C” license authorizes the retail sale of wine by the glass
or in an opened original container for consumption on the premises where sold.
      (3)   A “Class C” license may be issued to a person qualified under Wis.
Stats. § 125.04(5), for a restaurant in which the sale of alcohol beverages
accounts for less than 50% of gross receipts, and which does not have a barroom
if the municipality’s quota prohibits the municipality from issuing a “Class B”
license to that person. A “Class C” license may not be issued to a foreign
corporation or a person acting as agent for or in the employ of another.
      (4)   A “Class C” license shall particularly describe the premises for
which it is issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
Cross-reference:
   Revocation and suspension of licenses; non-renewal, see §
7-2-17
§ 7-2-5 LICENSES FEES.
   There shall be the following classes of licenses which, when issued by the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
under the authority of the Village Board after payment of the license fee and
publication costs hereinafter specified shall permit the holder to sell, deal,
or traffic in intoxicating liquors or fermented malt beverages as provided in §
7-2-4 and Wis. Stats. Chapter 125.
   (a)   Class “A” fermented malt beverages retailer’s license. The annual fee
for this license shall be $100. The fee for a license for less than 12 months
shall be prorated according to the number of months or fraction thereof for
which the license is issued.
   (b)   Class “B” fermented malt beverage license. The annual fee for this
license shall be $100. This license may be issued at any time for six months in
any calendar year, for which 50% of the applicable license fee shall be paid,
but such license shall not be renewable during the calendar year in which
issued. The fee for a license for less than 12 months shall be prorated
according to the number of months or fraction thereof for which the license is
issued.
   (c)   Temporary Class “B” fermented malt beverage license. The fee for this
license shall be $10 per event.
   (d)   Temporary “Class B” wine license. The fee for this license shall be
$10 per event. However, there shall be no fee if the temporary wine license is
obtained along with a temporary fermented malt beverage license.
   (e)   Fermented malt beverage wholesalers’ license. The annual fee for this
license shall be $25.
   (f)   “Class A” intoxicating liquor retailer’s license. The annual fee for
this license shall be $350.
   (g)   “Class B” intoxicating liquor retailer’s license. The annual fee for
this license shall be $375. This license may be issued at any time for six
months in any calendar year, for which 50% of the applicable license fee shall
be paid, but such license shall not be renewable during the calendar year in
which issued.
   (h)   “Class C” wine license. The annual fee for this license shall be $100.
The fee for less than 12 months shall be prorated.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 7-2-6 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (a)   Contents. Application for a license to sell or deal in intoxicating
liquor or fermented malt beverages shall be made in writing on the form
prescribed by the State Department of Revenue, and shall be sworn to by the
applicant as provided by Wis. Stats. §§ 887.01 to 887.03, and shall be filed
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, not less than 15 days prior to the granting of such license. The
premises shall be physically described to include every room and storage space
to be covered by the license, including all rooms not separated by a solid wall
or joined by connecting entrances.
   (b)   Corporations. Such application shall be filed and sworn to by the
applicant if an individual, by the president and secretary, if a corporation.
   (c)   Publication. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall publish each application for a Class “A,” Class
“B,” “Class A,” “Class B,” or “Class C” license. There is no publication
requirement for temporary Class “B” picnic beer licenses under Wis. Stats. §
125.26, or temporary “Class B” picnic wine licenses under Wis. Stats. § 125.51
(10). The application shall be published once in the official village
newspaper, and the costs of publication shall be paid by the applicant at the
time the application is filed, as determined under Wis. Stats. § 985.08.
   (d)   Amending application. Whenever anything occurs to change any fact set
out in the application of any licensee, such licensee shall file with the
issuing authority a notice in writing of such change within ten days after the
occurrence thereof.
   (e)   License quotas. Retail intoxicating liquor and fermented malt beverage
licenses issued by the Village Board shall be limited in number to the quota
prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 7-2-7 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS AND PREMISES.
   (a)   Residence requirements. A retail Class “A” or Class “B” fermented malt
beverage, or “Class A” or “Class B” intoxicating liquor license, shall be
granted only to persons who are citizens of the United States and who have been
residents of the state continuously for at least 90 days prior to the date of
the application.
   (b)   Applicant to have malt beverage license. No retail “Class B”
intoxicating liquor license shall be issued to any person who does not have or
to whom is not issued a Class “B” retailer’s license to sell fermented malt
beverages.
   (c)   Right to premises. No applicant will be considered unless he or she
has the right to possession of the premises described in the application for
the license period by lease or by deed.
   (d)   Age of applicant. Licenses related to alcohol beverages shall only be
granted to persons who have attained the legal drinking age.
   (e)   Corporate restrictions.
      (1)   No license or permit may be issued to any corporation unless the
corporation meets the qualifications under Wis. Stats. § 125.04(a)1 and 4 and
(b), unless the agent of the corporation appointed under Wis. Stats. § 125.04
(6) and the officers and directors of the corporation meet the qualifications
of Wis. Stats. §§ 125.04(a)1 and 3 and (b), and unless the agent of the
corporation appointed under Wis. Stats. § 125.04(6) meets the qualification
under Wis. Stats. § 125.04(a)2. The requirement that the corporation meet the
qualifications under Wis. Stats. § 125.04(a)1 and (b) does not apply if the
corporation has terminated its relationship with all of the individuals whose
actions directly contributed to the conviction.
      (2)   Each corporate applicant shall file with its application for such
license a statement by its officers showing the names and addresses of the
persons who are stockholders, together with the amount of stock held by such
person or persons. It shall be the duty of each corporate applicant and
licensee to file with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, a statement of transfers of stock within 48 hours
after such transfer of stock.
      (3)   Any license issued to a corporation may be revoked in the manner
and under the procedure established in Wis. Stats. § 125.12, when more than 50%
of the stock interest, legal or beneficial, in such corporation is held by any
person or persons not eligible for a license under this chapter or under the
state law.
   (f)   Sales tax qualification. All applicants for retail licenses shall
provide proof, as required by Wis. Stats. § 77.61(11), that they are in good
standing for sales tax purposes (for example, hold a seller’s permit) before
they may be issued a license.
   (g)   Connecting premises. Except in the case of hotels, no person may hold
both a “Class A” license and either a “Class B” license or permit, a Class “B”
license or permit, or a “Class C” license for the same premises or for
connecting premises. Except for hotels, if either type of license or permit is
issued for the same or connecting premises already covered by the other type of
license or permit, the license or permit last issued is void. If both licenses
or permits are issued simultaneously, both are void.
   (h)   Limitations on other business; Class “B” premises. No Class “B”
license or permit may be granted for any premises where any other business is
conducted in connection with the premises, except that this restriction does
not apply if the premises for which the Class “B” license or permit is issued
is connected to premises where other business is conducted by a secondary
doorway that serves as a safety exit and is not the primary entrance to the
Class “B” premises. No other business may be conducted on premises operating
under a Class “B” license or permit. These restrictions do not apply to any of
the following:
      (1)   A hotel;
      (2)   A restaurant, whether or not it is a part of or located in any
mercantile establishment;
      (3)   A combination grocery store and tavern;
      (4)   A combination sporting goods store and tavern in towns, villages,
and fourth class cities;
      (5)   A combination novelty store and tavern;
      (6)   A bowling alley or recreation premises; and/or
      (7)   A club, society, or lodge that has been in existence for six months
or more prior to the date of filing application for the Class “B” license or
permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 7-2-8 INVESTIGATION.
   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall notify the Police Department, Fire Inspector, and Building
Inspector of each new application, and these officials shall inspect or cause
to be inspected each application and the premises, together with such other
investigation as shall be necessary to determine whether the applicant and the
premises sought to be licensed comply with the regulations, ordinances, and
laws applicable thereto, including those governing sanitation in restaurants,
and whether the applicant is a proper recipient of a license. These officials
shall furnish to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, in writing, who shall forward to the Village Board the
information derived from such investigation, accompanied by a recommendation as
to whether a license should be granted or refused. No license shall be renewed
without a reinspection of the premises and report as originally required.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8)
§ 7-2-9 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   (a)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises or with any
equipment for which taxes, assessments, forfeitures, or other financial claims
of the village are delinquent and unpaid.
   (b)   No license shall be issued unless the premises conform to the
sanitary, safety, and health requirements of the State Building Code, and the
regulations of the State Board of Health and local Board of Health applicable
to restaurants. The premises must be properly lighted and ventilated, must be
equipped with separate sanitary toilet and lavatory facilities equipped with
running water for each sex and must conform to all ordinances of the village.
   (c)   Consideration for the granting or denial of a license will be based
on:
      (1)   Arrest and conviction record of the applicant, subject to the
limitations imposed by Wis. Stats. §§ 111.321,111.322, and 111.335;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant;
      (3)   The appropriateness of the location and the premises where the
licensed business is to be conducted; and
      (4)   Generally, the applicant’s fitness for the trust to be reposed.
   (d)   An application may be denied based upon the applicant’s arrest and
conviction record if the applicant has been convicted of a felony (unless duly
pardoned) or if the applicant has habitually been a law offender. For purposes
of this licensing procedure, HABITUALLY BEEN A LAW OFFENDER is generally
considered to be an arrest or conviction of at least two offenses which are
substantially related to the licensed activity within the five years
immediately preceding the license application. Because a license is a
privilege, the issuance of which is a right granted solely to the Village
Board, the Village Board reserves the right to consider the severity, and facts
and circumstances of the offense when making the determination to grant, deny,
or not renew a license. Further, the Board, at its discretion, may, based upon
an arrest or conviction record of two or more offenses which are substantially
related to the licensed activity within the five years immediately preceding,
act to suspend such license for a period of one year or more.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9)
§ 7-2-10 GRANTING OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Opportunity shall be given by the governing body to any person to be
heard for or against the granting of any license. Upon the approval of the
applicant by the Village Board, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, shall issue to the applicant a license, upon
payment by the applicant of the license fee to the village. The full license
fee shall be charged for the whole or fraction of any year.
   (b)   If the Village Board denies the license, the applicant shall be
notified in writing, by registered mail or personal service, of the reasons for
the denial. The notice shall also inform the applicant of the opportunity to
appear before the Village Board and to provide evidence as to why the denial
should be reversed. In addition, the notice shall inform the applicant that the
reconsideration of the application shall be held in closed session, pursuant to
Wis. Stats. § 19.85(1)(b), unless the applicant requests such reconsideration
be held in open session and the Village Board consents to the request. Such
written notice shall be mailed or served upon the applicant at least ten days
prior to the Village Board meeting at which the application is to be
reconsidered.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 7-2-11 TRANSFER AND LAPSE OF LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   In accordance with the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 125.04(12), a
license shall be transferable from one premises to another if such transfer is
first approved by the Village Board. An application for transfer shall be made
on a form furnished by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate. Proceedings for such transfer shall be had in the
same form and manner as the original application. The fee for such transfer is
$10.
      (2)   Whenever a license is transferred, the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall forthwith notify the
State Department of Revenue of such transfer. In the event of the sale of a
business or business premises of the licensee, the purchaser of such business
or business premises must apply to the village for reissuance of said license
and the village, as the licensing authority, shall in no way be bound to
reissue said license to said subsequent purchaser.
   (b)   Whenever the agent of a corporate holder of a license is for any
reason replaced, the licensee shall give the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, written notice of said replacement,
the reasons therefor, and the new appointment. Until the next regular meeting
or special meeting of the Village Board, the successor agent shall have the
authority to perform the functions and be charged with the duties of the
original agent. However, said license shall cease to be in effect upon receipt
by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, of notice of disapproval of the successor agent by the State
Department of Revenue or other peace officer of the municipality in which the
license was issued. The corporation’s license shall not be in force after
receipt of such notice or after a regular or special meeting of the Village
Board until the successor agent, or another qualified agent, is appointed and
approved by the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11)
§ 7-2-12 NUMBERING OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be numbered in the order in which they are issued and
shall state clearly the specific premises for which granted, the date of
issuance, the fee paid, and the name of the licensee. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall affix
to the license his or her affidavit as provided by Wis. Stats. § 125.04(4).
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12)
§ 7-2-13 POSTING LICENSES; DEFACEMENT.
   (a)   Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall immediately post such license and keep the same posted while in
force in a conspicuous place in the room or place where said beverages are
drawn or removed for service or sale.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post such license or to be
permitted to post it upon premises other than those mentioned in the
application or knowingly to deface or destroy such license.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-13)
§ 7-2-14 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   All retail Class “A,” Class “B,” “Class A,” and “Class B” licenses granted
hereunder shall be granted subject to the following conditions, and all other
conditions of this section, and subject to all other ordinances and regulations
of the village applicable thereto.
   (a)   Consent to entry. Every applicant procuring a license thereby consents
to the entry of police or other duly authorized representatives of the village
at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection and search, and consents
to the removal from said premises of all things and articles there had in
violation of village ordinances or state laws, and consents to the introduction
of such things and articles in evidence in any prosecution that may be brought
for such offenses.
   (b)   Employment of minors. No retail “Class B” or Class “B” licenses shall
employ any underage person, as defined in the state statutes, but this shall
not apply to hotels and restaurants. Family members may work on the licensed
premises but are not permitted to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages.
   (c)   Disorderly conduct prohibited. Each licensed premises shall, at all
times, be conducted in an orderly manner, and no disorderly, riotous, or
indecent conduct shall be allowed at any time on any licensed premises.
   (d)   Licensed operator on premises. There shall be upon premises operated
under a “Class B,” Class “B,” or “Class C” license, at all times, the licensee,
members of the licensee’s immediate family who have attained the legal drinking
age, and/or some person who shall have an operator’s license and who shall be
responsible for the acts of all persons serving as waiters, or in any other
manner, any fermented malt beverages to customers. No person other than the
licensee shall serve fermented malt beverages in any place operated under a
“Class B,” Class “B,” or “Class C” license unless he or she possesses an
operator’s license, or there is a person with an operator’s license upon said
premises at the time of such service.
   (e)   Health and sanitation regulations. The rules and regulations of the
State Board of Health governing sanitation in restaurants shall apply to all
“Class B” liquor or “Class C” licenses issued under this chapter. No “Class B”
or “Class C” license shall be issued unless the premises to be licensed conform
to such rules and regulations.
   (f)   Restrictions near schools and churches. No retail Class “A,” Class
“B,” “Class A,” or “Class B” license shall be issued for premises, the main
entrance of which is less than 300 feet from the main entrance of any
established public school, parochial school, hospital, or church. Such distance
shall be measured by the shortest route along the highway from the closest
point of the maintenance entrance of such school, church, or hospital to the
main entrance to such premises. This subsection (f) shall not apply to premises
licensed as such on June 30, 1947, nor shall it apply to any premises licensed
as such prior to the occupation of real property within 300 feet thereof by any
school building, hospital building, or church building.
   (g)   Clubs. No club shall sell or give away any intoxicating liquors except
to bona fide members and guests invited by members.
   (h)   Gambling prohibited. Except as authorized by state law, no gambling or
game of chance of any sort shall be permitted in any form upon any premises
licensed under this chapter or the laws of the state.
   (i)   Credit prohibited. No retail Class “A,” Class “B,” “Class A,” “Class
B,” or “Class C” liquor, wine, or fermented malt beverage licensee shall sell
or offer for sale any alcohol beverage to any person or persons by extending
credit, except hotel credit extended to a resident guest or a club to a bona
fide member. It shall be unlawful for such licensee or permittee to sell
alcohol beverages to any person on a passbook or store order, or to receive
from any person any goods, ware, merchandise, or other articles in exchange for
alcohol beverages.
   (j)   Licensee or permittee responsible for acts of help. A violation of
this chapter by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee or permittee
under this chapter shall constitute a violation by the licensee or permittee.
Whenever any licensee or permittee under this chapter shall violate any portion
of this chapter, proceedings for the suspension or revocation of the license or
permit of the holder thereof may be instituted in the manner prescribed in this
chapter.
   (k)   Improper exhibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person to perform,
or for any licensee or manager or agent of the licensee to permit any employee,
entertainer, or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance, or
exhibition on the licensed premises which:
      (1)   Exposes his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
      (2)   Exposes any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance
of or simulates genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region, or pubic
hair region;
      (3)   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
      (4)   Engages in or simulates sexual intercourse and/or any sexual
contact, including the touching of any portion of the female breast or the male
and/or female genitals.
   (l)   Sexually oriented activities prohibited. Any activities regulated
under
Title 7, Chapter 11 of this code of ordinances shall not be permitted in any
form upon any premises licensed under this chapter or the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-14)
Editor’s note:
   Within the prior code, under §
7-2-14, this is written: “Annotation: See Colonnade Catering Corp, v. United
States, 397 U.S. 72, 90 S. Ct. 774 (1970); and State v, Erickson, 101 Wis. 2d
224 (1981), for guidelines for warrantless searches of licensed premises.”
§ 7-2-15 CLOSING HOURS.
   Closing hours shall be established in conformance with Wis. Stats. § 125.32
(3), and further restricted as follows.
   (a)   Class “B,” “Class B,” and “Class C” licenses.
      (1)   No premises for which a retail “Class B” liquor, Class “B”
fermented malt beverage, or “Class C” wine license has been issued shall be
permitted to remain open for the sale of liquor or fermented malt beverages or
any other purpose between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Monday through
Friday, and 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Saturday and Sunday. There shall be no set
closing hours on January 1.
      (2)   Between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., no person may sell, remove,
carry out or permit to be removed or carried out from any premises having a
Class “B,” “Class B,” or “Class C” license, fermented malt beverages, or
intoxicating liquor in original unopened packages, containers, or bottles for
consumption away from the premises.
      (3)   Hotels and restaurants, whose principal business of which is the
furnishing of food or lodging to patrons, bowling alleys, indoor horseshoe-
pitching facilities, curling clubs, golf courses, and golf clubhouses may
remain open for the conduct of their regular business, but shall not sell any
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages during the closing hours of
subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) above.
   (b)   Class “A” and “Class A” licenses.
      (1)   No premises for which a retail “Class A” liquor license has been
issued shall be permitted to remain open for the sale of intoxicating liquor
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (2)   No premises for which a Class “A” fermented malt beverage license
has been issued shall be permitted to remain open for the sale of fermented
malt beverages between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (3)   Grocery stores, convenience stores, or a specialty store which has
been issued a Class “A” fermented malt beverage and/or a “Class A” liquor
license may remain open for the conduct of their regular business, but shall
not sell any intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages during the closing
hours of subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-15)
§ 7-2-16 RESTRICTIONS ON TEMPORARY FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGE OR WINE LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization on a temporary basis to
sell or offer to sell any alcohol beverage upon any village-owned property or
privately-owned property within the village, except through the issuance of a
temporary Class “B” fermented malt beverage license or temporary “Class B” wine
license issued by the Village Board in accordance with state statutes and as
set forth in this section. A temporary Class “B” fermented malt beverage
license or temporary “Class B” wine license authorizing the sale and
consumption of beer and/or wine on village-owned property or privately-owned
property may be authorized by the Village Board provided the following
requirements are met.
   (a)   Compliance with eligibility standards. The organization shall meet the
eligibility requirements of a bona fide club, association, lodge, or society as
set forth in Wis. Stats. § 125.26(6), and shall fully comply with the
requirements of this subsection (a) and §
11-4-1. Members of an organization which is issued a temporary license and who
are issued operator’s licenses for the event shall attend a pre-event
informational meeting to learn what rules and regulations apply and what the
responsibilities of the bartenders and organization will be.
   (b)   Posting of signs and licenses. All organizations issued a temporary
license shall post in a conspicuous location at the main point of sale and at
all remote points of sale a sufficient number of signs stating that no
fermented malt beverage shall be served to any under-age person without proper
identification.
   (c)   Fencing. If necessary, due to the physical characteristics of the
site, the Village Board may require that organizations install a double fence
around the main point of sale to control ingress and egress, and continually
station a licensed operator, security guard, or other competent person at the
entrance for the purpose of checking age identification. Where possible, there
shall be only one point of ingress and egress. When required, the double fence
shall be a minimum of four feet high and a minimum of six feet between fences.
   (d)   Underage persons prohibited. No underage persons, as defined by the
state statutes, shall be allowed to assist in the sale of fermented malt
beverages or wine at any point of sale, nor shall they be allowed to loiter or
linger in the area of any point of sale.
   (e)   Licensed operators requirement. A licensed operator shall be stationed
at all points of sales at all times.
   (f)   Waiver. The Village Board may waive or modify the requirements of this
section due to the physical characteristics of the licensed site.
   (g)   Insurance. The applicant for a temporary fermented malt beverage or
wine license may be required to indemnify, defend, and hold the village and its
employees and agents harmless against all claims, death of any person, or any
damage to property caused by or resulting from the activities for which the
permit is granted. As evidence of the applicant’s ability to perform the
conditions of the license, the applicant may be required to furnish a
certificate of comprehensive general liability insurance with the village. The
applicant may be required to furnish a performance bond prior to being granted
the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-16)
Cross-reference:
   Outside consumption, see §
11-4-1
§ 7-2-17 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSES; NON-RENEWAL.
   (a)   Procedure. Whenever the holder of any license under this chapter
violates any portion of this chapter or
Title 11, Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances, proceedings for the revocation
of such license may be instituted in the manner and under the procedure
established by this section.
   (b)   Abandonment of premises. Any licensee holding a license to sell
alcohol beverages who abandons such business shall forfeit any right or
preference he or she may have to the holding of or renewal of such license.
Abandonment shall be sufficient grounds for revocation of any alcohol beverage
license. The losing of the licensed premises for at least six months shall be
prima facie evidence of the abandonment, unless extended by the Village Board.
All persons issued a license to sell alcohol beverages in the village for which
a quota exists limiting the number of such licenses that may be issued by the
village shall cause such business described in such license to be operated on
the premises described in such license for at least 150 days during the terms
of such license, unless such license is issued for a term of less than 180
days, in which event this subsection (b) shall not apply.
   (c)   License revocation or suspension. License revocation or suspension
procedures shall be as prescribed by Wis. Stats. Chapter 125.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-17)
§ 7-2-18 NONALCOHOL EVENTS FOR UNDERAGE PERSONS ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   The presence of underage persons on a licensed premises, as provided under
Wis. Stats. § 125.07(3)(a)10, shall be subject to the following.
   (a)   The licensee or agent of a corporate licensee shall notify the Police
Department at least 48 hours in advance of the date of any event at which
underage persons will be present on the licensed premises. Each such nonalcohol
event notice shall specify the date(s) on which the event is to occur and the
time(s) of commencement. All notices shall be filed with the Police Department
during normal working hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday) and
shall be given on forms prescribed by the village. After a nonalcohol event
notice has been given, the licensee may cancel an event(s) only by giving like
notice to the village in accordance with the provisions of this subsection (a).
Regardless of the date given, all notices shall expire and be deemed cancelled
no later than the date of expiration or revocation of the applicable retail
Class “B” or “Class B” license.
   (b)   During the period of any nonalcohol event, a notice card prescribed by
the Police Department shall be posted at all public entrances to the licensed
premises notifying the general public that no alcohol beverages may be
consumed, sold, or given away on or carried into the licensed premises during
the event. Such notice cards shall be made available by the village to a
requesting licensee.
   (c)   Once a nonalcohol event has commenced, no alcohol beverages may be
consumed, sold, or given away on or carried into the licensed premises until
the next day following the closing hours of the licensed premises.
   (d)   During the period of any nonalcohol event all alcohol beverages shall
be stored in a locked portion of the licensed premises in a secure place out of
the sight and physical reach of any patron present, and shall be under the
direct and immediate control and supervision of the licensee or a licensed
bartender in the employ of the licensee. All beer taps and automatic dispensers
of alcohol beverages (“speed guns”) shall be either disconnected, disabled, or
made inoperable.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-18)
§§ 7-2-19 THROUGH 7-2-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE B: OPERATOR’S LICENSE
§ 7-2-30 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Operator’s licenses; Class “A,” Class “B,” or “Class C” premises.
Except as provided under Wis. Stats. §§ 125.32(3)(b) and 125.07(3)(a)10, no
premises operated under a Class “A,” Class “B,” or “Class C” license or permit
may be open for business unless there is upon the premises the licensee or
permittee, the agent named in the license or permit if the licensee or
permittee is a corporation, or some person who has an operator’s license and
who is responsible for the acts of all persons serving any fermented malt
beverages to customers. An operator’s license issued in respect to a vessel
under Wis. Stats. § 125.27(2), is valid outside the municipality that issues
it. For the purpose of this section, any person holding a manager’s license
under Wis. Stats. § 125.18, or any member of the licensee’s or permittee’s
immediate family who has attained the age of 18, shall be considered the holder
of an operator’s license. No person, including a member of the licensee’s or
permittee’s immediate family, other than the licensee, permittee, or agent, may
serve fermented malt beverages in any place operated under a Class “A,” Class
“B,” or “Class C” license or permit unless he or she has an operator’s license
or is at least 18 years of age and is under the immediate supervision of the
licensee, permittee, agent, or a person holding an operator’s license, who is
on the premises at the time of the service.
   (b)   Use by another prohibited.
      (1)   No person may allow another to use his or her Class “A” or Class
“B” license or permit to sell alcohol beverages.
      (2)   The license or permit of a person who violates subsection (b)(1)
above shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-30)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 125.17 and 125.32
§ 7-2-31 PROCEDURE UPON APPLICATION.
   (a)   The Village Board may issue an operator’s license, which license shall
be granted only upon application in writing on forms to be obtained from the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, only
to persons 18 years of age or older. Operator’s licenses shall be operative
only within the limits of the village.
   (b)   All applications are subject to an investigation by the Police
Department and/or other appropriate authority to determine whether the
applicant and/or premises to be licensed complies with all regulations,
ordinances, and laws applicable thereto. The investigating authority shall
conduct an investigation of the applicant including, but not limited to,
requesting information from the state, surrounding municipalities, and/or any
community where the applicant has previously resided concerning the applicant’s
arrest and conviction record. Based upon such investigation, the investigating
authority shall recommend, in writing, to the Village Board approval or denial
of the application. If the investigating authority recommends denial, the
investigating authority shall provide, in writing, the reasons for such
recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-31)
§ 7-2-32 DURATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid for a
period of one year and shall expire on June 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-32)
§ 7-2-33 OPERATOR’S LICENSE FEE; PROVISIONAL LICENSE.
   (a)   Fee. The annual fee for an operator’s license or provisional license
shall be in accordance with the current fee schedule for the village, for the
term thereof.
   (b)   Provisional license. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, may issue provisional operators’ licenses in
accordance with Wis. Stats. § 125.17(5). The provisional operator’s license
shall expire 60 days after its issuance or when an operator’s license is issued
to the holder, whichever is sooner. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, may, upon receiving an application
for a temporary provisional license, issue such a license without requiring the
successful completion of the approved program as described herein. However,
such temporary license shall be used only for the purpose of allowing such
applicant the privilege of being licensed as a beverage operator pending his or
her successful completion of the approved program, and the applicant shall also
apply for a regular operator’s license. A provisional license may not be issued
to any person who has been denied an operator’s license by the Village Board or
who has had his or her operator’s license revoked or suspended within the
preceding 12 months. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall provide an appropriate application form to be
completed in full by the applicant. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, may revoke the provisional license
issued if he or she discovers that the holder of the license made a false
statement on the application.
   (c)   Temporary license. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, may issue a temporary operator’s license,
provided that:
      (1)   This license may be issued only to operators employed by, or
donating their services to, non-profit corporations;
      (2)   No person may hold more than one license of this kind per year; and
      (3)   The license is valid for any period from one day to 14 days, and
the period for which it is valid shall be stated on the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-33)
§ 7-2-34 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   (a)   After the Village Board approves the granting of an operator’s
license, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall issue the license. Such licenses shall be issued and
numbered in the order they are granted and shall give the applicant’s name and
address, and the date of the expiration of such license.
   (b)   (1)   If the application is denied by the Village Board, the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall, in
writing, inform the applicant of the denial, the reasons therefor, and of the
opportunity to request a reconsideration of the application by the Village
Board in a closed session. Such notice must be sent by registered mail to, or
served upon, the applicant at least ten days prior to the Board’s
reconsideration of the matter. At such reconsideration hearing, the applicant
may present evidence and testimony as to why the license should be granted.
      (2)   If, upon reconsideration, the Board again denies the application,
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons therefor. An applicant who
is denied any license upon reconsideration of the matter, may apply to Circuit
Court pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 125.12(2)(d), for review.
   (c)   (1)   Consideration for the granting or denial of a license will be
based on:
         a.   Arrest and conviction record of the applicant, subject to the
limitations imposed by Wis. Stats. §§ 111.321,111.322, and 111.335;
         b.   The financial responsibility of the applicant;
         c.   The appropriateness of the location and the premises where the
licensed business is to be conducted; and
         d.   Generally, the applicant’s fitness for the trust to be reposed.
      (2)   If a licensee is convicted of an offense substantially related to
the licensed activity, the Village Board may act to revoke or suspend the
license.
   (d)   (1)   An application may be denied based upon the applicant’s arrest
and conviction record if the applicant has been convicted of a felony (unless
duly pardoned) or if the applicant has habitually been a law offender.
      (2)   For purposes of this licensing procedure, HABITUALLY BEEN A LAW
OFFENDER is generally considered to be an arrest or conviction of at least two
offenses which are substantially related to the licensed activity within the
five years immediately preceding the license application. Because a license is
a privilege, the issuance of which is a right granted solely to the Village
Board, the Village Board reserves the right to consider the severity, and facts
and circumstances of the offense when making the determination to grant, deny,
or not renew a license. Further, the Village Board, at its discretion, may,
based upon an arrest or conviction record of two or more offenses which are
substantially related to the licensed activity within the five years
immediately preceding, act to suspend such license for a period of one year or
more.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-34)
§ 7-2-35 TRAINING COURSE.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b) below, the Village Board may not
issue an operator’s license unless the applicant has successfully completed a
responsible beverage server training course at any location that is offered by
a vocational, technical, and adult education district, and that conforms to
curriculum guidelines specified by the board of vocational, technical, and
adult education or a comparable training course that is approved by the
Educational Approval Board, or unless the applicant fulfills one of the
following requirements.
      (1)   The person is renewing an operator’s license.
      (2)   Within the past two years, the person held a Class “A,” Class “B,”
“Class A,” “Class B,” or “Class C” license or permit or a manager’s or
operator’s license.
      (3)   Within the past two years, the person has completed such a training
course.
   (b)   The Village Board may issue a provisional operator’s license to a
person who is enrolled in a training course under subsection (a) above and
shall revoke that license if the applicant fails to complete the course in
which he or she enrolls.
   (c)   The Village Board may not require that applicants for operators’
licenses undergo training in addition to that under subsection (a) above, but
may require applicants to purchase, at cost, materials that deal with relevant
local subjects not covered in the course under subsection (a) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-35)
§ 7-2-36 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be posted on
the premises whenever the operator dispenses beverages or be in his or her
possession, or carry a license card.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-36)
§ 7-2-37 REVOCATION OF OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   Violation of any of the terms or provisions of the state law or of this
chapter relating to the operator’s licenses by any person holding such
operator’s license shall be cause for revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-37)
§§ 7-2-38 THROUGH 7-2-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE C: PENALTIES
§ 7-2-40 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Forfeitures for violations of Wis. Stats. §§ 125.07(1)-(5) and 125.09
(2), adopted by reference in §
7-2-1, shall conform to the forfeiture penalty permitted to be imposed for
violations of the comparable state statute, including any variations or
increases for subsequent offenses.
   (b)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, except as
otherwise provided in subsection (a) above or who shall conduct any activity or
make any sale for which a license is required without a license, shall be
subject to a forfeiture as provided in the general penalty section of this code
of the village.
   (c)   Nothing herein shall preclude or affect the power of the sentencing
court to exercise additional authorities granted by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-40)
CHAPTER 3: CIGARETTE LICENSE
Section
   
7-3-1   Cigarette license
§ 7-3-1 CIGARETTE LICENSE.
   (a)   License required. No person, firm, or corporation in the village
shall, in any manner, directly or indirectly, upon any premises, or by any
device, sell, exchange, barter, dispose of, or give away, or keep for sale, any
cigarette, cigarette paper, or cigarette wrappers, or any substitute therefor,
without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provide.
   (b)   Application for license; fee. Every person, firm, or corporation
desiring a license under this section shall file with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, a written
application therefor, stating the name of the person and the place for which
such license is desired. Each license shall be filed by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and shall
name the licensee and the place wherein he or she is authorized to conduct such
business, and the same shall not be delivered until the applicant shall pay to
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
according to the current village fee schedule.
   (c)   Issuance and term of license. Licenses for the sale, exchange, barter,
disposition of, or giving away, or keeping for sale of cigarette paper or
cigarette wrappers or any substitute therefor shall be issued by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. Each license
shall be issued on the first day of July in each year, or thereafter whenever
applied for, and shall continue in force from date of issuance until the
succeeding June 30 unless sooner revoked for any violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 134.65
CHAPTER 4: DIRECT SELLERS
Section
   
7-4-1   Registration required
   
7-4-2   Definitions
   
7-4-3   Exemptions
   
7-4-4   Registration
   
7-4-5   Investigation
   
7-4-6   Appeal
   
7-4-7   Regulation of direct sellers
   
7-4-8   Revocation of registration
§ 7-4-1 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller and/or transient merchant to
engage in direct sales within the village without being registered for that
purpose as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 7-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
eleemosynary person, partnership, association, or corporation, or one
purporting to be such, and religious organizations, including Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, 4-H Clubs, and school organizations.
   CLERK. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate.
   DIRECT SELLER. Any individual who, for him or herself, or for a partnership,
association, or corporation, sells goods, or takes sales orders for the later
delivery of goods, at any location other than the permanent business place or
residence of said individual, partnership, association, or corporation, and
shall include, but not be limited to, peddlers, solicitors, and transient
merchants. The sale of goods includes donations required by the direct seller
for the retention of goods by a donor or prospective customer.
   GOODS. Personal property of any kind and shall include goods provided
incidental to services offered or sold.
   PERMANENT MERCHANT. A direct seller who, for at least one year prior to the
consideration of the application of this chapter, to said merchant:
      (1)   Has continuously operated an established place of business in the
village; or
      (2)   Has continuously resided in the village and now does business from
his or her residence.
   PERSON. All humans of any age or sex, partnerships, corporations,
associations, groups, organizations, and any other description of a collection
of human beings working in concert or for the same purpose or objective.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 7-4-3 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter.
   (a)   Any person delivering newspapers, fuel, dairy products, or bakery
goods to regular customers on established routes.
   (b)   Any person selling goods at wholesale to dealers in such goods.
   (c)   Any person selling agricultural products which such person has grown.
   (d)   Any permanent merchant or employee thereof who takes orders away from
the established place of business for goods regularly offered for sale by such
merchant within this county and who delivers such goods in their regular course
of business.
   (e)   Any person who has an established place of business within the School
District where the goods being sold are offered for sale on a regular basis,
and in which the buyer has initiated contact with, and specifically requested a
home visit by, said person.
   (f)   Any person who has had, or one who represents a company which has had,
a prior business transaction, such as a prior sale or credit arrangement, with
the prospective customer.
   (g)   Any person selling or offering for sale a service unconnected with the
sale or offering for sale of goods.
   (h)   Any person holding a sale required by statute or by order of any court
and any person conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law.
   (i)   Any employee, officer, or agent of a charitable organization who
engages in direct sales for or on behalf of said organization, provided that
there is submitted to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, proof that such charitable organization is registered
under Wis. Stats. § 440.41, or which is exempt from that statute’s registration
requirements, shall be required to register under this chapter.
   (j)   Any person who claims to be a permanent merchant, but against whom
complaint has been made to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, that such person is a transient merchant, provided
that there is submitted to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, proof that such person has leased for at least one
year, or purchased, the premises from which he or she is conducting business,
or proof that such person has conducted such business in the village for at
least one year prior to the date complaint was made.
   (k)   Minors under 18 years of age who are residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 7-4-4 REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Applicants for registration must complete and return to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, a
registration form furnished by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, which shall require the following
information.
      (1)   Name, permanent address, and telephone number, and temporary
address, if any.
      (2)   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and date of birth.
      (3)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person, firm,
association or corporation that the direct seller represents or is employed by,
or whose merchandise is being sold.
      (4)   Temporary address and telephone number from which business will be
conducted, if any.
      (5)   Nature of business to be conducted and a brief description of the
goods offered and any services offered.
      (6)   Proposed method of delivery of goods, if applicable.
      (7)   Make, model, and license number of any vehicle to be used by the
applicant in the conduct of his or her business.
      (8)   Last cities, villages, or towns, not to exceed three, where
applicant conducted similar business just prior to making this registration.
      (9)   Place where the applicant can be contacted for at least seven days
after leaving the village.
      (10)   Statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
crime or ordinance violation related to the applicant’s transient merchant
business within the last five years, the nature of the offense, and the place
of conviction.
   (b)   Documentation. Applicants shall present to the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, for examination:
      (1)   A driver’s license, or some other proof of identity as may be
reasonably required;
      (2)   A state certificate of examination and approval from the sealer of
weights and measures where the applicant’s business requires use of weighing
and measuring devices approved by state authorities; and
      (3)   A State Health Officer’s certificate where the applicant’s business
involves the handling of food or clothing and is required to be certified under
state law; such certificate to state that the applicant is apparently free from
any contagious or infectious disease, dated not more than 90 days prior to the
date the application for license is made.
   (c)   Registration fee.
      (1)   At the time the registration is returned, a fee shall be paid to
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
to cover the cost of processing and investigating said registration. Members of
a group may be involved in a single registration form and fee. Each applicant
shall pay a registration fee of $10 per year. Transient merchants/direct
sellers may employ two assistants without payment of an additional license fee,
but such persons must comply with the other provisions of this section.
      (2)   The applicant shall sign a statement appointing the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, his or her
agent, to accept service of process in any civil action brought against the
applicant arising out of any sale or service performed by the applicant in
connection with the direct sales activities of the applicant, in the event the
applicant cannot, after reasonable effort, be served personally.
      (3)   Upon payment of said fee and the signing of said statement, the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall register the applicant as a direct seller and date the entry. Said
registration shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of entry,
subject to subsequent refusal as provided in §
7-4-5(b).
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 7-4-5 INVESTIGATION.
   (a)   Upon receipt of each application, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall have the Police Department, or
other investigating authority, make and complete an investigation of the
statements made in such registration.
   (b)   The investigating authority may refuse to register the applicant if it
is determined, pursuant to the investigation above, that the application
contains any material omission or materially inaccurate statement; complaints
of a material nature have been received against the applicant by authorities in
the last cities, villages, and towns, not exceeding three, in which the
applicant conducted similar business; the applicant was convicted of a crime,
statutory violation, or ordinance violation within the last five years, the
nature of which is directly related to the applicant’s fitness to engage in
direct selling; or the applicant failed to comply with any applicable provision
of §
7-4-4(b).
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 7-4-6 APPEAL.
   Any person denied registration may appeal the denial through the appeal
procedure provided by ordinance or resolution of the Village Board or, if none
has been adopted, under the provisions of Wis. Stats. §§ 68.07 through 68.16.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 7-4-7 REGULATION OF DIRECT SELLERS.
   (a)   Prohibited practices.
      (1)   A direct seller shall be prohibited from calling at any dwelling or
other place between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., except by
appointment; calling at any dwelling or other place where a sign is displayed
bearing the words “No Peddlers, No Solicitors,” or words of similar meaning;
calling at the rear door of any dwelling place; or remaining on any premises
after being asked to leave by the owner, occupant, or other person having
authority over such premises.
      (2)   A direct seller shall not misrepresent or make false, deceptive, or
misleading statements concerning the quality, quantity or character of any
goods offered for sale, the purpose of his or her visit, his or her identity,
or the identity of the organization he or she represents. A charitable
organization direct seller shall specifically disclose what portion of the sale
price of goods being offered will actually be used for the charitable purpose
for which the organization is soliciting. Said portion shall be expressed as a
percentage of the sale price of the goods.
      (3)   No direct seller shall impede the free use of sidewalks and streets
by pedestrians and vehicles. Where sales are made from vehicles, all traffic
and parking regulations shall be observed.
      (4)   No direct seller shall make any loud noises or use any sound
amplifying device to attract customers if the noise produced is capable of
being plainly heard outside a 100-foot radius of the source.
      (5)   No direct seller shall allow rubbish or litter to accumulate in or
around the area in which he or she is conducting business.
   (b)   Disclosure requirements.
      (1)   After the initial greeting and before any other statement is made
to a prospective customer, a direct seller shall expressly disclose his or her
name, the name of the company or organization he or she is affiliated with, if
any, and the identity of goods or services he or she offers to sell.
      (2)   If any sale of goods is made by a direct seller or any sales order
for the later delivery of goods is taken by the seller, the buyer shall have
the right to cancel said transaction if it involves the extension of credit or
is a cash transaction of more than $25, in accordance with the procedure as set
forth in Wis. Stats. § 423.203; the seller shall give the buyer two copies of a
typed or printed notice of that fact. Such notice shall conform to the
requirements of Wis. Stats. § 423.203(1)(a), (b), and (c), (2) and (3).
      (3)   If the direct seller takes a sales order for the later delivery of
goods, he or she shall, at the time the order is taken, provide the buyer with
a written statement containing the terms of the agreement, the amount paid in
advance, whether full, partial or no advance payment is made, the name,
address, and telephone number of the seller, the delivery or performance date,
and whether a guarantee or warranty is provided and, if so, the terms thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 7-4-8 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   Registration may be revoked by a law enforcement officer or Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, if the
registrant made any material omission or materially inaccurate statement in the
application for registration, made any fraudulent, false, deceptive, or
misleading statement or representation in the course of engaging in direct
sales, violated any provision of this chapter, or was convicted of any crime or
ordinance, or statutory violation, which is directly related to the
registrant’s fitness to engage in direct selling. The registrant may appeal
such revocation pursuant to §
7-4-6.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8)
CHAPTER 5: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
7-5-1   Quarterly parking fee; limitations on parking
§ 7-5-1 QUARTERLY PARKING FEE; LIMITATIONS ON PARKING.
   (a)   There is hereby imposed on each owner of a non-exempt, occupied mobile
home in the village a quarterly parking fee as determined in accordance with
Wis. Stats. § 66.0453(3) which is hereby adopted by reference and made part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein. It shall be the full and complete
responsibility of the licensee to collect the proper amount from each mobile
homeowner. Licensees shall pay to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, such parking permit fees on or before the
tenth day of the month following the quarter for which such fees are due in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, and such regulations as the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, may
reasonably promulgate.
      (1)   Licensees of mobile home parks and owners of land on which are
parked any occupied, non-exempt mobile homes shall furnish information to the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and
Assessor on such homes added to their park or land within five days after
arrival of such home on forms furnished by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, in accordance with Wis. Stats. §
66.0453(3)(c) and (e).
      (2)   Occupants or owners of non-exempt mobile homes parked outside of a
mobile home park shall remit such fees directly to the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, as provided in this
subsection (a). It shall be the full and complete responsibility of the
licensee of a mobile home park to collect such fees from each occupied non-
exempt mobile home therein and to remit such fees to the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, as provided in this
subsection (a).
   (b)   Owners of non-exempt, occupied mobile homes, upon receipt of notice
from the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, of their liability for the monthly parking permit fee, shall remit
to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, a cash deposit of $25 to guarantee payment of such fees when due
to the village. It shall be the full and complete responsibility of the
licensees of a mobile home park to collect such cash deposits from each
occupied, non-exempt mobile home therein and to remit such deposits to the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. Upon
receipt of a notice from the owner or licensee that the non-exempt, occupied
mobile home has been or is about to be removed from the village, the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall apply
said cash deposit to reduce any monthly parking permit fees for which said
owner is liable and refund the balance, if any, to said owner.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any mobile home in the
village at any site other than a licensed mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. §§ 66.0435 and 70.111(19)
CHAPTER 6: REGULATION AND LICENSING OF FIREWORKS
Section
   
7-6-1   Regulation of fireworks
§ 7-6-1 REGULATION OF FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Definition. In this section, FIREWORKS means anything manufactured,
processed, or packaged for exploding, emitting sparks, or combustion which does
not have another common use, but does not include any of the following.
      (1)   Fuel or a lubricant.
      (2)   A firearm cartridge or shotgun shell.
      (3)   A flare used or possessed, or sold for use, as a signal in an
emergency or in the operation of a railway, aircraft, watercraft, or motor
vehicle.
      (4)   A match, cigarette lighter, stove, furnace, candle, lantern, or
space heater.
      (5)   A cap containing not more than one-fourths grain of explosive
mixture, if the cap is used or possessed or sold for use in a device which
prevents direct bodily contact with a cap when it is in place for explosion.
      (6)   A toy snake which contains no mercury.
      (7)   A model rocket engine.
      (8)   Tobacco and a tobacco product.
      (9)   A sparkler on a wire or wood stick not exceeding 36 inches in
length or one-fourth-inch in outside diameter which does not contain magnesium,
chlorate, or perchlorate.
      (10)   A device designed to spray out paper confetti or streamers, and
which contains less than one-fourths grain of explosive mixture.
      (11)   A device designed to produce an audible sound but not explode,
spark, move, or emit an external flame after ignition, and which does not
exceed three grams in total weight.
      (12)   A device that emits smoke with no external flame and does not
leave the ground.
      (13)   A cylindrical fountain not exceeding 100 grams in total weight
with an inside tube diameter not exceeding three-fourths inch, designed to sit
on the ground and emit only sparks and smoke.
      (14)   A cone fountain not exceeding 75 grams in total weight, designed
to sit on the ground and emit only sparks and smoke.
   (b)   Sale. No person may sell or possess with intent to sell fireworks,
except:
      (1)   To a person holding a permit under subsection (c)(3) below;
      (2)   To a municipality; or
      (3)   For a purpose specified under subsection (c)(3)b. through f. below.
   (c)   Use.
      (1)   Permit required. No person may possess or use fireworks without a
user’s permit from the Village President, or from an official or employee of
the village as designated by the Village Board. No person may use fireworks or
a device listed under subsection (a)(5) through (a)(7) and (a)(9) through (a)
(14) above while attending a fireworks display for which a permit has been
issued to a person listed under subsection (c)(3)a. through (c)(3)e. below or
under subsection (c)(3)f. below if the display is open to the general public.
      (2)   Permit exceptions. Subsection (c)(1) above does not apply to:
         a.   The village, except that village fire and law enforcement
officials shall be notified of the proposed use of fireworks at least two days
in advance;
         b.   The possession or use of explosives in accordance with rules or
general orders of the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human Relations;
         c.   The disposal of hazardous substances in accordance with rules
adopted by the State Department of Natural Resources;
         d.   The possession or use of explosive or combustible materials in
any manufacturing process;
         e.   The possession or use of explosive or combustible materials in
connection with classes conducted by educational institutions; and
         f.   A possessor or manufacturer of explosives in possession of a
license or permit under 18 U.S.C. §§ 841 to 848 if the possession of the
fireworks is authorized under the license or permit.
      (3)   Who may obtain permit. A permit under this subsection (c)(3) may be
issued only to the following.
         a.   A public authority.
         b.   A fair association.
         c.   An amusement park.
         d.   A park board.
         e.   A civic organization.
         f.   An agricultural producer for the protection of crops from
predatory birds or animals.
      (4)   Crop protection signs. A person issued a permit for crop protection
shall erect appropriate warning signs disclosing the use of fireworks for crop
protection.
      (5)   Bond. The Village President issuing a permit under this subsection
(c)(5) shall require an indemnity bond with good and sufficient sureties or
policy of liability insurance for the payment of all claims that may arise by
reason of injuries to person or property from the handling, use, or discharge
of fireworks under the permit. The bond or policy shall be taken in the name of
the village, and any person injured thereby may bring an action on the bond or
policy in the person’s own name to recover the damage the person has sustained,
but the aggregate liability of the surety or insurer to all persons shall not
exceed the amount of the bond or policy. The bond or policy, together with a
copy of the permit, shall be filed in the officer of the village.
      (6)   Required information for permit. A permit under this subsection (c)
(6) shall specify all of the following.
         a.   The name and address of the permit holder.
         b.   The date on and after which fireworks may be purchased.
         c.   The kind and quantity of fireworks which may be purchased.
         d.   The date and location of permitted use.
         e.   Other special conditions prescribed by ordinance.
      (7)   Copy of permit. A copy of a permit under this subsection (c)(7)
shall be given to the Fire Chief at least two days before the date of
authorized use.
      (8)   Minors prohibited. A permit under this subsection (c)(8) may not be
issued to a minor.
   (d)   Storage and handling.
      (1)   Fire extinguishers required. No wholesaler, dealer, or jobber may
store or handle fireworks on the premises unless the premises are equipped with
fire extinguishers approved by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Smoking prohibited. No person may smoke where fireworks are stored
or handled.
      (3)   Fire Chief to be notified. A person who stores or handles fireworks
shall notify the Fire Chief of the location of the fireworks.
      (4)   Storage distance. No wholesaler, dealer, or jobber may store
fireworks within 500 feet of a dwelling.
      (5)   Restrictions on storage. No person may store fireworks within 500
feet of a public assemblage or place where gasoline or volatile liquid is sold
in quantities exceeding one gallon.
   (e)   Parental liability. A parent or legal guardian of a minor who consents
to the use of fireworks by the minor is liable for damages caused by the
minor’s use of the fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
CHAPTER 7: STREET USE PERMITS
Section
   
7-7-1   Street use permits
§ 7-7-1 STREET USE PERMITS.
   (a)   Purpose. The streets in possession of the village are primarily for
the use of the public in the ordinary way. However, under proper circumstances,
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
may grant a permit for street use, subject to reasonable municipal regulation
and control. Therefore, this chapter is enacted to regulate and control the use
of streets pursuant to a street use permit to the end that the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public and the good order of the village can be
protected and maintained.
   (b)   Application. A written application for a street use permit by persons
or groups desiring the same shall be made on a form provided by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and shall be
filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate. The application shall set forth the following information
regarding the proposed street use:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant or
applicants;
      (2)   If the proposed street use is to be conducted for, on behalf of, or
by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters
of the organization and of the authorizing responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons
who will be responsible for conducting the proposed use of the street;
      (4)   The date and duration of time for which the requested use of the
street is proposed to occur;
      (5)   An accurate description of the portion of the street proposed to be
used;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons for whom use of the proposed
street area is requested; and
      (7)   The proposed use, described in detail, for which the street use
permit is requested.
   (c)   Representative at meeting. The person or representative of the group
making application for a street use permit shall be present when the Village
Board gives consideration to the granting of said street use permit to provide
any additional information which is reasonably necessary to make a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be granted.
   (d)   Denial of street use permit.
      (1)   An application for a street use permit may be denied if:
         a.   The proposed street use is primarily for private or commercial
gain;
         b.   The proposed street use would violate any federal or state law,
or any ordinance of the village;
         c.   The proposed street use will substantially hinder the movement of
police, fire, or emergency vehicles, constituting a risk to persons or
property;
         d.   The application for a street use permit does not contain the
information required above;
         e.   The application requests a period for the use of the street in
excess of five days; and
         f.   The proposed use could equally be held in a public park or other
location.
      (2)   In addition to the requirement that the application for a street
use permit shall be denied, as hereinabove set forth, the Village Board may
deny a permit for any other reason or reasons if it concludes that the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public cannot adequately be protected and
maintained if the permit is granted.
   (e)   Insurance. The applicant for a street use permit may be required to
indemnify, defend, and hold the village and its employees and agents harmless
against all claims, liability, loss, damage, or expense incurred by the village
on account of any injury to or death of any person, or any damage to property
caused by or resulting from the activities for which the permit is granted. As
evidence of the applicant’s ability to perform the conditions of the permit,
the applicant may be required to furnish a certificate of comprehensive general
liability insurance with the village. The applicant may be required to furnish
a performance bond prior to being granted the permit.
   (f)   Termination of a street use permit. A street use permit for an event
in progress may be terminated by the Village President or a law enforcement
officer if the health, safety, and welfare of the public appears to be
endangered by activities generated as a result of the event or the event is in
violation of any of the conditions of the permits or ordinances of the village.
The Village President or a law enforcement officer has the authority to revoke
a permit or terminate an event in progress if the event organizers fail to
comply with any of the regulations in the street use policy or conditions
stated in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
CHAPTER 8: REGULATION OF NONMETALLIC MINING
Section
   
7-8-1   Statutory provisions adopted
   
7-8-2   Definitions
   
7-8-3   Existing nonmetallic mining operations
   
7-8-4   Exempt activities
   
7-8-5   Permit required for nonmetallic mining
   
7-8-6   Permit revocation
   
7-8-7   Blasting and/or rock crushing
§ 7-8-1 STATUTORY PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 295.14, which is adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1)
§ 7-8-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION. Has the meaning specified under Wis. Stats. §
144.01(3).
   NONMETALLIC MINING OR NONMETALLIC MINING OPERATION. Operations or activities
for the extraction from the earth for sale or use by the operator of mineral
aggregates such as stone, sand, and gravel, fill material, and nonmetallic
minerals such as asbestos, beryl, clay, feldspar, peat, and talc, related
operations, or activities such as excavation, grading, or dredging if the
purpose of those operations or activities is the extraction of mineral
aggregates and nonmetallic minerals, and related processes such as crushing,
screening, scalping, dewatering, and blending.
   NONMETALLIC MINING REFUSE. Waste soil, rock, mineral, liquid, vegetation,
and other waste material resulting from a nonmetallic mining operation. This
term does not include merchantable by-products resulting directly from or
displaced by the nonmetallic mining operation.
   NONMETALLIC MINING SITE OR SITE. The location where a nonmetallic mining
operation is proposed or conducted, including all surface areas from which
materials are removed, related storage and processing areas, areas where
nonmetallic mining refuse is deposited, and areas disturbed by the nonmetallic
mining operation by activities such as the construction or improvement of roads
or haulageways.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is engaged in a nonmetallic mining operation or
nonmetallic mining site reclamation or who applies for or holds a nonmetallic
mining permit issued under this nonmetallic mining reclamation ordinance
whether individually, jointly, or through subsidiaries, agents, employees,
contractors, or subcontractors.
   RECLAMATION. The rehabilitation of a nonmetallic mining site including, but
not limited to, removal of nonmetallic mining refuse, grading of the site,
replacement of topsoil, stabilization of soil conditions, establishment of
vegetative cover, control of surface water and groundwater, prevention of
environmental pollution, construction of fences and, if practical, restoration
of plant, fish, and wildlife habitat.
   REPLACEMENT OF TOPSOIL. The replacement of the topsoil which was removed or
disturbed by a nonmetallic mining operation or the provision of soil which is
at least as adequate as the topsoil which was removed or disturbed for the
purposes of providing adequate vegetative cover and stabilization of soil
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-2)
§ 7-8-3 EXISTING NONMETALLIC MINING OPERATIONS.
   This nonmetallic mining reclamation chapter shall apply to any portion of a
nonmetallic mining site, including unreclaimed portions of a site which were
mined prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-3)
§ 7-8-4 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   This nonmetallic mining reclamation chapter shall not apply to the following
activities.
   (a)   Excavations or grading by a person solely for domestic use at his or
her residence.
   (b)   Excavations or grading conducted for highway construction purposes
within the highway right-of-way.
   (c)   Grading conducted for farming, preparing a construction site, or
restoring land following a flood or natural disaster.
   (d)   Excavations for building construction purposes.
   (e)   Any mining operation, the reclamation of which is required in a permit
obtained under Wis. Stats. §§ 144.80 to 144.94.
   (f)   Any activities conducted at a solid or hazardous waste disposal site
required to prepare, operate or close a solid waste disposal facility under
Wis. Stats. §§ 144.435 to 144.445, or a hazardous waste disposal facility under
Wis. Stats. §§ 144.60 to 144.74, but a nonmetallic mining reclamation ordinance
may apply to activities related to solid or hazardous waste disposal which are
conducted at a nonmetallic site separate from the solid or hazardous waste
disposal facility such as activities to obtain nonmetallic minerals to be used
for lining, capping, covering or constructing berms, dikes, or roads.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-4)
§ 7-8-5 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR NONMETALLIC MINING.
   (a)   Permit required. No person shall operate any nonmetallic mining site
or operation within the village unless he or she obtains a nonmetallic mining
permit from the Village Board. The fee for such permit shall be $50, plus any
actual village administrative expenses, payable by certified check. Operators
of existing nonmetallic mining operations shall apply for such permit within 30
days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (b)   Required permit information. An application for a nonmetallic mining
permit shall be submitted by the operator, and shall include:
      (1)   An adequate description of the operation, including a legal
description of the property;
      (2)   A plan of the site showing the proposed and existing roads and
drives, and the sources, quantity, and disposition of water to be used, if any;
      (3)   Estimated dates for completion of the extraction and commencement,
and completion dates for the reclamation;
      (4)   A reclamation plan and such other information as may be necessary
to determine the nature of the operation and the effect on the surrounding
area;
      (5)   Methods of screening from adjacent properties;
      (6)   Hours of operation;
      (7)   Dust and noise control;
      (8)   Maximum depth;
      (9)   Blasting procedures;
      (10)   Location and height of stockpiles; and
      (11)   Such other information the Village Board deems pertinent to the
operation.
   (c)   Reclamation plan. The reclamation plan shall contain adequate
provisions that:
      (1)   All final slopes around the area be flatter than a three to one
horizontal slope in a sand, gravel, or borrow pit operation, or in a safe angle
or repose in a quarrying operation;
      (2)   Excavations below the grade of the nearest abutting public street
or highway shall be set back from the street or highway a distance not less
than that required for buildings and structures in the same zoning district;
      (3)   Excavations made to a water-producing depth shall be not less than
three feet measured from the low water mark;
      (4)   All final slopes shall be covered with adequate topsoil and seeded
to prevent erosion;
      (5)   The plan shall require that, after completion of the anticipated
operation, the area shall be cleared of all debris and be left in a workmanlike
condition, subject to the approval of the Village Board; and
      (6)   There is a timetable for completion of various stages of
reclamation of the nonmetallic mining site.
   (d)   Applications. All applications for a license hereunder shall be made
in writing upon the written form provided by the village and distributed by the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. All
applications for permits hereunder shall be signed by the applicant and filed
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, at least 60 days prior to the licensing period. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
immediately refer all applications for a license hereunder to the Village Board
for public hearing and approval. The operator shall receive written notice of
the public hearing. The license shall be for a period of time as stated in the
application or as modified by the Village Board. Modification of the
application or reclamation plan may be permitted or additional conditions may
be required upon application. The Board shall consider the effect of the
operation and the proposed reclamation upon existing and future conditions,
including streets, neighboring land development, land use drainage, water
supply, water pollution, air pollution, soil erosion, natural beauty, and land
value of the locality. The Village Board may approve, approve conditionally, or
reject the application and reclamation plan.
   (e)   Financial assurance. Before a license and reclamation plan is approved
by the Village Board, the operator shall submit an agreement and performance
bond or cash escrow agreement to assure the following.
      (1)   The operator shall pay for the cost of all improvements required in
the reclamation plan by the Village Board.
      (2)   Guaranteed completion of the required reclamation within a period
determined by the Village Board.
      (3)   Payment by the operator for all costs incurred by the village for
review and inspection. This would include preparation and review of plans and
specifications by the Village Engineer and Attorney, as well as other costs of
a similar nature.
      (4)   The village may elect to have stages of the reclamation plan
performed under the terms of a cash escrow agreement.
      (5)   The required performance bond or cash escrow agreement shall be
equal to one and one-fourths times the Village Engineer’s estimated cost of the
required improvements.
      (6)   If the required reclamation is not complete within the designated
period, all amounts held under the escrow agreement or performance bond shall
be turned over and delivered to the village and applied to the cost of the
required reclamation. Any balance remaining after such reclamation has been
done shall be returned to the operator. The Village Board, at its option, may
extend the bond period for additional periods.
   (f)   Fences. Prior to reclamation, nonmetallic mining sites abutting areas
zoned residential shall be enclosed by a security fence of not less than four
feet in height. Fence gates shall be locked or secured when the site is
unattended so as to prevent uncontrolled access by children to the site.
   (g)   Inspection. An authorized agent of the village may enter the premises
of a nonmetallic mining operation in the performance of his or her official
duties by permission of the property owner or operator, or pursuant to a
special inspection warrant issued under Wis. Stats. § 66.0119, in order to
inspect those premises and to ascertain compliance with this nonmetallic mining
reclamation chapter.
   (h)   Prohibitions and orders. Nonmetallic mining operations within the
village are prohibited if the nonmetallic mining site cannot be reclaimed in
compliance with the standards of this chapter or if other requirements of this
chapter are not met.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-5)
§ 7-8-6 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   If any permit is revoked, cancelled, rescinded, or terminated, the operator
shall be given written notice of any charges or violations against him or her,
or the reasons proposed for revocation and shall have an opportunity to be
heard before the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-6)
§ 7-8-7 BLASTING AND/OR ROCK CRUSHING.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      BLASTING. A method of loosening, moving, or shattering masses of solid
matter by use of explosive compounds to prepare stone for crushing, to prepare
stone for building and/or ornamental use, or to prepare property for
development.
      PERSON. Any individual, partner, corporation, company, trustee, or
association, together with the respective servants, agents, and employees
thereof.
      ROCK CRUSHER. Any device, machine, apparatus, or equipment used either
individually or in conjunction with any other device, machine, apparatus, or
equipment for the purpose of crushing, grinding, breaking or pulverizing rock
or stone.
   (b)   Operation. No person within the village shall operate a rock crusher
or perform blasting in such a manner so that any dust, dirt, or vibration from
such operation shall, in any way, damage or injure any person or property
within the village. All blasting within the village shall be performed
according to the requirements of Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters SPS 307.30 and
307.31, Explosives and Blasting Agents, and all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (c)   Permit.
      (1)   Permit required. No person within the village shall operate a rock
crusher or perform blasting who does not possess a proper permit therefor from
the village.
      (2)   Applications. All applications for permits hereunder shall be made
in writing upon the written form provided by the village and distributed by the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. All
applications for permits hereunder shall be signed by the applicant and filed
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, at least 60 days prior to the licensing period. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
immediately refer all applications for permits hereunder to the Village
Engineer. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall issue a permit hereunder only after first receiving the
recommendation of the Village Engineer, the duly executed certified check for
the permit fee as hereinafter provided, and the submittal of the plan of
operation, if required, as approved by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Certified check. Each application for a permit hereunder shall be
accompanied by a certified check in the sum of the required permit fee as
hereinafter provided, or a renewal thereof, the same to be payable to the
village.
      (4)   Plan of operation. Each application to permit a rock crusher
hereunder or renewal thereof shall be accompanied by a plan of operation which
shall include: methods of screening from adjacent properties, hours of
operation, hours of blasting, and operation of rock crusher, dust, and noise
control, blasting procedures, location, and height of stock piles, whether a
rock crusher will be needed and how often, water supply, drainage course,
maximum depth, legal description of property in question, and other information
the Village Engineer deems pertinent to the proposed operation. Such plan of
reorganization shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
      (5)   Certificate of insurance. Each application for a blasting permit
shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance identifying the village as a
party insured in the amount of $500,000 for damage to property, and $500,000
for injury to one person, and $1,000,000 for injury to more than one person
caused by the blasting.
   (d)   Renewals. All requests for renewals of permits hereunder shall be made
at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the permit and must comply
with all requirements of subsection (c) above.
   (e)   Blasting procedures and controls.
      (1)   Energy ratio. The allowable vibration of any blast at the nearest
occupied or used building off the subject premises shall not exceed an energy
ratio of 0.5 or resultant particle velocity of 1.35 inches per second based on
the following formulas.
         a.   Energy ratio = 0.5 - 10.823 where: f - frequency in cycles per
second, A = amplitude or displacement in inches.
         b.   Energy ratio = 0.274 V^ (V = resultant particles velocity
expressed in inches per second).
      (2)   Measurement of blasts. The operator of the quarry operation, when
requested to do so by the Village Engineer, shall measure and submit data to
substantiate compliance with the above formula and the operator of the quarry
operation, when requested to do so by the Village Engineer, shall measure air
blast. This verification shall be performed by a seismological engineering firm
acceptable to the village or by the Village Engineer. Instrumentation shall be
by seismograph similar to VME Seismolog Model “B” and approved seismograph
sound measuring equipment or approved equivalents. All expenses for these tests
shall be paid by the quarry operator.
      (3)   Blasting log. A log in duplicate shall be kept of each blast on
forms similar to the one on file with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate. The original copy of this blasting
log shall be filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, within 48 hours after the blast, and a copy shall be
kept on file at the quarry office.
      (4)   Cover material. Operators of quarries for building and/or
ornamental stone removal shall cover Primacord, other detonating cord, or
surface-laid blasting devices with at least one foot of dirt or other suitable
cover material.
   (f)   Permit fee. The permit fee for any permit issued pursuant to this
section shall be as set forth below. No permit fee shall be prorated. All
permits issued hereunder shall expire on December 31 following the date of
issue.
      (1)   Quarries using blasting to supply buildings and/or ornamental
stone: $10 per blasting period.
      (2)   Gravel crushing operations using portable or fixed crushing
equipment less than 30 days per year: $10 per year.
   (g)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
1-1-6. However, upon conviction for the violation of any of the provisions of
this section by the holder of a permit issued hereunder, and in addition to the
forfeiture provided, such permit shall thereupon be cancelled, revoked,
rescinded, and terminated.
   (h)   Enforcement. Before renewal of any license issued under this section
is refused or any license is revoked, cancelled, rescinded, or terminated, the
licensee shall be given written notice of any charges or violations against him
or her, or the reasons proposed for nonrenewal or revocation, and shall have an
opportunity to be heard before the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-7)
CHAPTER 9: FLEA MARKETS; GARAGE SALES
Section
   
7-9-1   Regulation of flea markets
   
7-9-2   Regulation of garage sales
§ 7-9-1 REGULATION OF FLEA MARKETS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      COMMON USE STRUCTURE. A non-permanent structure allowed to be commonly
used by sellers/vendors and the public such as tents, restrooms, and
concessions.
      FLEA MARKET. A market, held indoors or out of doors, where new or used
items are sold in a common area from individual locations by independent
sellers, with each location being operated independently from the other
locations. Items are sold from stands, tables, or booths within a common area
including, but are not limited to, household items, antiques, rare items,
decorations, used books, and magazines.
      FLEA MARKET SELLER/VENDOR. A person, firm, or corporation selling items
or offering items for sale at a flea market.
      FLEA MARKET OPERATOR. A person, firm, or corporation licensed by the
village to make available a designated property to himself or herself, or
itself or others, as a display area offering items for sale at a flea market.
      MARKET. A market held on private property where goods are sold to the
public.
   (b)   Location restriction. A flea market may be operated outside or inside
in Commercial or Industrial Zoned Districts. If inside, a permanent structure
or accessory building must comply with Village Uniform Dwelling Codes or State
Commercial Codes. The structure must also provide suitable restroom facilities,
and parking in accordance with village parking codes. If outside (open-air), no
sales accessories, displays, or items used for sales by flea market sellers/
vendors may be located on the premises in view of the general public earlier
than four hours prior to the opening of the first consecutive day of flea
market operations, nor later than two hours following the close of operation on
the last consecutive day of flea market operations. No common use structures
may be located on the premises in view of the general public earlier than noon
preceding the first consecutive day of flea market operations, nor later than
noon of the day following the last consecutive day of flea market operations.
Outside sales must provide suitable portable restroom facilities, and adequate
on-site parking to safely accommodate customers without the use of on-street
parking on any public road or right-of-way. Parking provisions must comply with
any applicable village parking codes.
   (c)   Grounds kept. Any materials including sales tables, shelters, portable
restrooms, and sales accessories must be stored in an orderly fashion out of
the view of the general public when not in use. Grounds must be kept free of
trash and litter at all times. The flea market operator shall be responsible
for compliance of all provisions of this section, and shall have the right to
remove non-compliant properties of the sellers.
   (d)   Frequency of sales. No flea market held outside shall operate more
than three consecutive days with a minimum of a four-day period between flea
market events.
   (e)   License required. No person, firm, or corporation shall operate the
business of renting space or allocating space to flea market sellers without
first obtaining a license therefor from the Village Board. Applications for
license shall be made to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, on forms to be provided by the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. Only one license shall be
required for each flea market location, and the individual flea market sellers/
vendors shall not be required to obtain a license under this section. The fee
for such license shall be $100 per year. The Village Board may restrict the
license for use on certain dates and times.
   (f)   Information to be filed. The information to be filed with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, pursuant to
this section, shall be as follows.
      (1)   Name of the person, firm, group, corporation, association, or
organization conducting said sale.
      (2)   Name of the owner of the property on which said sale is to be
conducted, and consent of owner if the applicant is other than owner.
      (3)   Location of structure at which sale is to be conducted.
      (4)   Number of days of sale.
      (5)   Date and nature of any past sales.
      (6)   Relationship or connection the applicant may have had with any
other person, firm, group, organization, charitable/non-profit association, or
corporation conducting said sale, and the date or dates of proposed or previous
sales.
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant has been issued any other sellers/
vendors license by any local, state, or federal agency.
      (8)   Sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing that the
information therein given is full and true, and known by him or her to be so.
   (g)   Records to be kept by licensee. Each person required by this section
to obtain a license shall keep accurate records of the names and addresses of
each flea market seller, a description of the type or types of merchandise
offered for sale by that seller, and records required by all state and federal
laws.
   (h)   Churches and non-profit organizations exempt. Any transaction while
operating a charitable organization or conducting a sale, the proceeds of which
are donated to a charitable organization, are exempt from licensing and zoning
requirements under this section.
   (i)   More than one market. Any person, firm, or corporation renting or
allocating space to flea market sellers/vendors in more than one place of
business shall be required to obtain a license for each place of business,
provided that one license shall be adequate for locations that are on the same
lot, adjacent lots, or lots separated only by an alley.
   (j)   Unlawful transactions. No person shall sell or offer for sale at any
flea market any goods known to such person to be stolen.
   (k)   Purchases from children. No flea market seller shall purchase any used
household item, antique, or used article whatsoever from any person under the
age of 18 years, unless such person is accompanied by the person’s parent or
legal guardian.
   (l)   Hours. Flea markets held outdoors shall limit their hours of operation
from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., unless otherwise specified on the license by the
Village Board at the time of issuance.
   (m)   Penalty. In addition to the suspension or revocation of a license
issued under this section, any person who shall violate any provision of this
section or any regulation, rule, or order made hereunder, shall be subject to a
penalty as provided in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-1)
§ 7-9-2 REGULATION OF GARAGE SALES.
   (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different
meaning.
      GARAGE SALE. All general sales open to the public, conducted from or on a
residential premises, for the purposes of disposing of personal property,
including, but not limited to, all sales entitled rummage, lawn, yard, porch,
room, backyard, patio, or garage sale.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized, and maintained, and
acquired in the normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does
not include merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on
consignment.
   (b)   License requirements. None is required for common garage sales.
   (c)   Frequency of sales; ownership of merchandise.
      (1)   Garage sales, yard sales, and similar merchandise sales may be held
no more than three times per year at any residence, and for a total of not more
than ten days in that year. All goods offered for sale shall be household goods
or personal possessions from the residence where the sale is being held or, in
the case of a group sale, from the residences of the participating households.
In no case shall any sales become outlets for wholesale of retail commercial
sales.
      (2)   Any garage sales, yard sales, and similar merchandise sales by non-
profit, philanthropic, or civic organizations are exempt from restrictions and
requirements of this section.
   (d)   Hours. Garage sales shall be conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
Each sale shall last no longer than five consecutive days.
   (e)   Signs.
      (1)   Garage sale signs may not have an area more than six square feet
with a maximum of two faces. Garage sale signs shall identify the location of
the sale and must be located at least five feet from the street line or nearest
lot line.
      (2)   No garage sale sign may be located on utility poles, traffic
control devices, or on property or the adjoining right-of-way of property, the
owner of which has not given his or her explicit permission for its location.
      (3)   No garage sale sign shall be displayed before two days before the
sale or two days following the sale.
      (4)   No more than one garage sale sign may be located at the sale site
and no more than six garage sale signs may be located off the site, except that
two signs are permitted on corner lots, one facing each street.
   (f)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision of this section or
any regulation, rule, or order made hereunder, shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-2)
CHAPTER 10: LICENSEES TO PAY LOCAL CLAIMS; APPELLATE PROCEDURES
Section
   
7-10-1   Licensees required to pay local taxes, assessments, and claims;
appellate procedures
§ 7-10-1 LICENSEES REQUIRED TO PAY LOCAL TAXES, ASSESSMENTS, AND CLAIMS;
APPELLATE PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Nonpayment of taxes or forfeitures. The village shall not issue or
renew any license to transact any business within the village:
      (1)   For any purposes for which taxes, assessments, or other claims of
the village are delinquent and unpaid; or
      (2)   For any person who is delinquent in payment:
         a.   Of any taxes, assessments, or other claims owed the village; or
         b.   Of any forfeiture resulting from a violation of any village
ordinance.
   (b)   Applicability. This section shall apply to licenses issued pursuant to
the provisions of
Title 7 of this code of ordinances, except Chapters
1 and
5.
   (c)   Denial of renewal. An application for renewal of a license subject to
this chapter shall be denied pursuant to the provisions of subsection (a) above
only following notice and opportunity for hearing as provided by subsection (d)
below.
   (d)   Hearing. Prior to any denial of an application for renewal of a
license, including denials pursuant to subsection (a) above, the applicant
shall be given notice and opportunity for a hearing as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   With respect to licenses renewable under
Chapter 2 of
Title 7 of this code of ordinances, notice and opportunity for hearing shall be
as provided by Wis. Stats. § 125.12, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   With respect to licenses other than those described in subsection
(a) above, the Village Board, or its assignee, shall notify the applicant in
writing of the village’s intention not to renew the license and shall provide
the applicant with an opportunity for hearing. The notice shall state the
reasons for the intended action and shall establish a date, not less than three
days nor more than ten days after the date of the notice on which the applicant
shall appear before the Village Board. If the applicant shall fail to appear
before the Board on the date indicated on the notice, the Board shall deny the
application for renewal. If the applicant appears before the Board on the date
indicated in the notice and denies that the reasons for nonrenewal exist, the
Village Board shall conduct a hearing with respect to the matter. At the
hearing, both the village and the applicant may produce witnesses, cross
examine witnesses, and be represented by counsel. The applicant shall, upon
request, be provided a written transcript of the hearing at the applicant’s
expense. If the Village Board determines the applicant shall not be entitled to
renewal pursuant to subsection (a) above, the application for renewal shall be
denied.
   (e)   Other grounds for hearing. Where an individual, business, or
corporation wishes to appeal the Village Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest
elected official’s, as appropriate, decision not to issue a license or permit
under this title on grounds other than those specified in subsections (a)
through (d) above, the applicant may file a request in writing with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, that the
matter be referred to the Village Board. A public hearing shall be scheduled
within 14 calendar days by the Village Board. All parties may be represented by
counsel. The Board shall consider all relevant information and shall render a
decision which shall be binding.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-1)
CHAPTER 11: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
7-11-1   Purpose and findings
   
7-11-2   Definitions
   
7-11-3   Classifications of sexually oriented businesses
   
7-11-4   License required
   
7-11-5   Issuance of license
   
7-11-6   Fees
   
7-11-7   Inspection
   
7-11-8   Expiration of license
   
7-11-9   Suspension
   
7-11-10   Revocation
   
7-11-11   Transfer of license
   
7-11-12   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
7-11-13   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
7-11-14   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos, or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
7-11-15   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
7-11-16   Additional regulations for nude modeling studios
   
7-11-17   Additional regulations concerning public nudity
   
7-11-18   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business
   
7-11-19   Hours of operation
   
7-11-20   Exemptions
   
7-11-21   Injunction and penalty
§ 7-11-1 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the village and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the village. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
materials.
   (b)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made
available to the Village Board, and on findings incorporated in the cases of
City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v.
American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976); and Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc.,
501 U.S. 560 (1991); and on studies in other communities including, but not
limited to, Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, Oklahoma; Cleveland,
Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on findings from the report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses (June
6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the Village Board finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented establishments lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the
operators of the establishments. There is presently no mechanism to make the
owners of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on
their premises;
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented establishments defined in
this chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidence of
certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments;
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur
at sexually oriented establishments, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows;
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions;
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented establishments for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such establishments;
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented establishments, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, non A, non B amebiasis, salmonella infections, and
shigella infections;
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States: 600 in 1982, 2,200 in 1983,
4,600 in 1984, 8,555 in 1985, and 253,448 through December 31, 1992. The number
of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the United States reported
annually has risen;
      (8)   As of March, 1997, there have been 3,561 reported cases of AIDS in
the state since 1982;
      (9)   Since 1982 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in
North Western Wisconsin;
      (10)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
United States reported annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982
and 45,200 through November of 1990;
      (11)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States, reported
annually remains at a high level, with over 500,000 cases being reported in
1990;
      (12)   The Surgeon General of the United States in his or her report of
October 22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection
may be transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn;
      (13)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts;
      (14)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented establishments are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities;
      (15)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented establishments where persons view adult
oriented films;
      (16)   The finds noted in subsections (b)(1) through (b)(15) above raise
substantial governmental concerns;
      (17)   Sexually oriented establishments have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns;
      (18)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators
of the sexually oriented establishments. Further, such a licensing procedure
will place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the
sexually oriented establishment is run in a manner consistent with the health,
safety, and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of
the village. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the
licensee is the actual operator of the sexually oriented establishment, fully
in possession and control of the premises and activities occurring therein;
      (19)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters;
      (20)   Requiring licenses of sexually oriented establishments to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments;
      (21)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented establishment, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases;
      (22)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity;
      (23)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been
convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the
applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter;
      (24)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses
for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases; and
      (25)   The general welfare, health, morals, and safety of the citizens of
the village will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-1)
§ 7-11-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video, or laser disc players, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         a.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS; or
         b.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not service to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of SPECIFIED
SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a commercial establishment which
offers for sale or rental any of the items listed in subsection (1)a. above
will be considered to have as one of its principal business purposes the
offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials which are
characterized by the depiction or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS, provided all of the following conditions are met.
         a.   Total gross revenue from the sale or rental of any of the items
listed in subsection (1)a. above does not exceed 10% of the commercial
establishment’s gross revenue.
         b.   Total gross square footage of display space and stock area
devoted to the sale or rental of any of the items listed in subsection (1)a.
above does not exceed 10% of the commercial establishment’s total square
footage.
         c.   Display of any of the items listed in subsection (1)a. above is
in a separate room or area restricted only to persons 18 years old or older,
and is closely monitored by management and/or employees of the commercial
establishment to ensure that no individual under the age of 18 years old or
older and is closely monitored by management and/or employees of the commercial
establishment to ensure that no individual under the age of 18 enters the room
or area where the items listed in subsection (1)a. above are displayed of
stored.
         d.   No electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other
image-producing devices are maintained on the premises of the commercial
establishment to show images of items listed in subsection (1)a. above to any
customers or potential customers of the commercial establishment.
         e.   Only employees or management of the commercial establishment who
are 18 years old or older are permitted to enter the area where the items
listed in subsection (1)a. above are stored, processed, or displayed for
customers or potential customers of the commercial establishment.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, dance hall, bar, restaurant, or similar
commercial establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or by SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic or computer reproductions or depictions that are characterized by
the depiction or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS
or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS; and which may have a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent to two or more unrelated occupants
for a period of time that is less than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features persons who appear, in person, in a state
of nudity and/or semi-nudity, and/or live performances that are characterized
by the exposure of SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS or by SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs a service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or
otherwise, and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following.
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business.
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business.
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by another person who pays money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of a female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE OR IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one if
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution, dissemination of
obscenity, sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography,
public lewdness, indecent exposure, or indecency with a child; engaging in
organized criminal activity, sexual assault, or molestation of a child;
gambling; or distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to
those described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or
countries.
      (2)   For which:
         a.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         b.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         c.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor area(s) occupied by the
business by more than 25%, as the floor area exists on the date this chapter
originally took effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-2)
§ 7-11-3 CLASSIFICATIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (a)   Adult arcades;
   (b)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (c)   Adult cabarets;
   (d)   Adult motels;
   (e)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (f)   Adult theaters;
   (g)   Escort agencies;
   (h)   Nude model studios; and
   (i)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-3)
§ 7-11-4 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   License required. It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the village pursuant to this chapter;
and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (b)   Application form. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the village.
   (c)   Qualifications information. All applicants must be qualified according
to the provisions of this chapter. The application may request and the
applicant shall provide such information (including fingerprints) as to enable
the village to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established by this chapter.
   (d)   Application signatories. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually
oriented business is an individual, the person must sign the application for a
license as an applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business is other than an individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater
interest in the business must sign the application for a license as an
applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under the following section, and
each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (e)   Required application information and documents. The completed
application for a sexually oriented business shall contain the following
information, and shall be accompanied by the following documents.
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases, and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, and
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of the state of its incorporation, the names and capacity of all
officers, directors, and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent, and the address of the registered office for service of
process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
         a.   The sexually oriented business’ fictitious name; and
         b.   Submit the required registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each.
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other sexually oriented business
ordinances from another city, village, township, or county denied, suspended,
or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business
for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of
the denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person
residing with the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director, or principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this
chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of denial,
suspension, or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (10)   The applicant’s drivers license number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to
application depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing sexually oriented business or activities within any areas where such
businesses are prohibited or restricted by §
13-1-52. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. The
drawing shall be reviewed by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, for accuracy. In the event of a dispute
between the applicant and the village as to the accuracy of the drawing, the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, may
order the applicant to provide a drawing with the information required under
this subsection (e) prepared by a registered land surveyor.
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set for in this section.
   (f)   Required information. Before any applicant may be issued a sexually
oriented business employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be
provided by the village the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair, and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information; and
      (7)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (g)   Application attachments. Attached to the application form for a
sexually oriented business employee license as provided in subsection (e)
above, shall be the following.
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant at the time of application.
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country has ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended.
In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and described in full the reason
for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of denial,
revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each.
   (h)   Access to application materials. Any and all papers filed to obtain a
license under this chapter shall be kept in a separate and locked section of
the village files. The only persons to whom access of these records is allowed
is the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, and any member of the Village Police Department to whom the job of
checking for compliance under §
7-11-5 or investigating possible violations of this chapter is assigned. Any
other individual who seeks or gains access to any papers filed to obtain a
license under this chapter shall be charged with a violation of this chapter
and subject to the penalties provided in §
7-11-21.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-4)
§ 7-11-5 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Temporary license; investigation; denial. Upon the filing of said
application for a sexually oriented business employee license, the village
shall issue a temporary license to said applicant. The application shall then
be referred to the appropriate village departments for an investigation to be
made on such information as is contained on the application. The application
process shall be completed within 31 days from the date the completed
application is filed. After the investigation, the village shall issue a
license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or
more of the following findings is true.
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form.
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter.
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter.
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the village within two years of the date of the current application.
If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection (a)
shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
7-11-10.
   (b)   Annual review. A license granted pursuant to this section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant, and a
finding by the Village Board that the applicant has not been convicted of any
specified criminal activity as defined by this chapter or committed any act
during the existence of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to
the payment of the fees as set forth in §
7-11-6.
   (c)   Review period; denial criteria. Within 31 days after receipt of a
completed sexually oriented business application, the Village Board shall
approve or deny the issuance of a license to an applicant. The village shall
approve the issuance of a license to an applicant unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true.
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the village to operate a sexually oriented business
within the 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented business
has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter.
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Officer, Fire Department, and the Building
Inspector as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   License posting. The license, if granted, except for the provisions of
§ 7-11-5(e), shall state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom
it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the sexually oriented
business, and the classification for which the license is issued pursuant to §
7-11-3. All licenses shall be posted so that they may be easily read at any
time.
   (e)   Use of stage names. A licensee applying for an employee license may
have said license issued under a stage name. Said licensee must, however, have
both the license issued under this chapter and another form of identification
with the licensee’s real name available for inspection by the Village Police
Department at any time the licensee is working in the licensed premises.
   (f)   Compliance certification. The Health Officer, Fire Department, and the
Building Inspector shall complete their certification that the premises is in
compliance or not in compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by
the village.
   (g)   License classification limits. A sexually oriented business license
shall be issued for only one classification, as found in §
7-11-3.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-5)
§ 7-11-6 FEES.
   (a)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $100 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (b)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required in
subsection (a) above, every sexually oriented business that is granted a
license (new or renewal) shall pay to the village an annual non-refundable
license fee of $150 within 30 days of license issuance or renewal.
   (c)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee licensee,
whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be
accompanied by an annual $50 non-refundable application, investigation, and
license fee.
   (d)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the Village
Clerk of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-6)
§ 7-11-7 INSPECTION.
   (a)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Officer, Fire Department, Zoning Department, or other
village departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented
business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (b)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a violation of this chapter if he or she refuses to permit
such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-7)
§ 7-11-8 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
7-11-4. An application for renewal shall be made at least 31 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 31 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (b)   When the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date that the denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-8)
§ 7-11-9 SUSPENSION.
   The village shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter; and
   (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-9)
§ 7-11-10 REVOCATION.
   (a)   Suspension-based revocation. The village shall revoke a license if a
cause of suspension in §
7-11-9 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (b)   Revocation criteria. The village shall revoke a license if it
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Excepting the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county, or
state for any taxes or fees past due.
   (c)   Revocation length. When the village revokes a license, the revocation
shall continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business license for one year from the date the revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the village finds that the basis for
the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. The above time periods notwithstanding, if the reason for the
revocation was delinquency in payment to the village, county, or state of any
tax or fee, then the license shall be reinstated immediately upon the payment
of said tax or fee.
   (d)   Judicial review. After denial of an application, or denial of a
renewal of an application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the
applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative
action in any court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall
be promptly reviewed by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-10)
§ 7-11-11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-11)
§ 7-11-12 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   No sexually oriented business may be operated in any zoning district other
than that district defined and described in the village zoning code, unless it
is a legal non-conforming use as provided for therein. No sexually oriented
business may be operated without a conditional use permit as required under the
Village Zoning Code, §
13-1-125, unless it is a legal non-conforming use as provided for therein.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-12)
§ 7-11-13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (a)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (b)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if, as the person in
control of a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar commercial
establishment that does not have a sexually oriented business license, he or
she rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person and within ten hours from the
time the room is rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room
again.
   (c)   For purposes of subsection (b) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-13)
§ 7-11-14 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS, OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (a)   Requirements. A person who operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the
premises in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film,
video cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be
required; however, each should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions or all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
village may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the village.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   a.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.
         b.   If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated,
then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron
is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s
stations. The view required in this subsection (a) must be by direct line of
sight from the manager’s stations.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection (a)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials
and, at all times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths or rooms to determine if any openings or
holes exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porus
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (b)   Violation of section requirements. A person having a duty under
subsections (a)(1) through (a)(14) above commits a violation of this chapter if
he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-14)
§ 7-11-15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (a)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (b)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-15)
§ 7-11-16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODELING STUDIOS.
   (a)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (b)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio, except if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to
public view or visible to any other person.
   (c)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (d)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-16)
§ 7-11-17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person who is an
employee who, while semi-nude or nude, is closer than ten feet from any patron
or customer, and on a stage lower than two feet from the floor.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee, while semi-
nude or nude in a sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity
from any patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any
gratuity to any employee while said employee is semi-nude or nude in a sexually
oriented business.
   (c)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee, while semi-
nude or nude, to touch a customer or the clothing of a customer.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-17)
§ 7-11-18 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly allows
a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-18)
§ 7-11-19 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. (noon) on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-19)
§ 7-11-20 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
7-11-17 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
   (a)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation;
   (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
education programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (c)   In a structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure, and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-20)
§ 7-11-21 INJUNCTION AND PENALTY.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of §
7-11-12 is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for a
violation of this chapter. Such violation shall be punishable by a forfeiture
of not to exceed $200 plus costs. Each day a sexually oriented business so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-11-21)
CHAPTER 12: PAWNBROKER REGULATIONS AND LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
7-12-1   Purpose
   
7-12-2   License required
   
7-12-3   Display of license
   
7-12-4   Investigation of license applicant
   
7-12-5   License issuance
   
7-12-6   Records required
   
7-12-7   Daily reports to police
   
7-12-8   Receipt required
   
7-12-9   Redemption period
   
7-12-10   Holding period
   
7-12-11   Police Chief to hold property
   
7-12-12   Inspection of items
   
7-12-13   Label required
   
7-12-14   Prohibited acts
   
7-12-15   License denial, suspension, or revocation
   
7-12-16   Business at only one location
   
7-12-17   Severability
§ 7-12-1 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The Village Board finds that the services offered by pawnbrokers
provide an opportunity for the commission of crimes and their concealment
because pawn businesses have the ability to receive and transfer property
stolen by others easily and quickly. The Village Board also finds that consumer
protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving pawnbrokers. The
purpose of this chapter is to prevent pawn businesses from being used as
facilities for the commission of crimes, and to assure that such businesses
comply with basic consumer protection standards, thereby protecting the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the village.
   (b)   To assist the Village Police Department in its efforts to regulate
current and future pawn businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated
with the regulation of the pawn industry, and increase identification of
criminal activities in the pawn industry through the timely collection and
sharing of pawn transaction information, this chapter also implements and
establishes the required use of the automated pawn system (APS).
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person may operate as a pawnbroker in the village without first
obtaining a pawnbroker license from the Village Clerk.
   (b)   Any person wishing to operate as a pawnbroker within the village must
provide the following information to the Village Clerk as part of the license
application.
      (1)   The applicant’s name, place and date of birth, current residence
address, and residence addresses for the ten-year period prior to the date of
the application.
      (2)   The name and address of the pawnbroker business, and the address of
the business owner.
      (3)   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation, limited
liability company, or partnership, and:
         a.   If the applicant is a corporation, the state where incorporated
and the names and addresses of all officers and directors;
         b.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners;
         c.   If the applicant is a limited liability company, the names and
addresses of all members;
         d.   The name of the manager or proprietor of the business; and
         e.   Any other information that the Village Clerk may reasonably
require.
      (4)   a.   A statement as to whether the applicant, including an
individual, agent, officer, director, member, partner, manager, or proprietor,
has been convicted of any crime, statutory violation punishable by forfeiture,
or county or municipal ordinance violation.
         b.   If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time,
place, and offense of all such convictions.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other person listed in subsection (b)
(4) above has ever used or been known by a name other than the applicant’s
name, and if so, the name or names used and information concerning dates and
places used.
      (6)   a.   Whether the applicant or any other person listed in subsection
(b)(4) above has previously been denied or had revoked, or suspended, a
pawnbroker license from any governmental unit.
         b.   If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the date,
location, and reason for the action.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-3 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall be displayed in a conspicuous
location visible to anyone entering the licensed premises.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-4 INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICANT.
   The Village Police Department shall investigate each applicant and any other
person listed in §
7-12-2 for a pawnbroker license. The Police Department shall furnish the
information derived from such investigation to the Village Clerk in writing,
and shall include information on each agent, officer, member, partner, manager,
or proprietor listed on the license application.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-5 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (a)   The Village Board shall grant the issuance of such license if all of
the following apply.
      (1)   The applicant, including an individual, a partner, a member of a
limited liability company, a manager, a proprietor, or an officer, director, or
agent of any corporate applicant, does not have an arrest or conviction record,
subject to state statute.
      (2)   The applicant provides to the Village Clerk a bond in the amount of
$2,500 with not less than two sureties to ensure observation of all municipal
ordinances or state or federal laws relating to pawnbrokers. The bond must be
in full force and effect at all times during the term of this license.
   (b)   No pawnbroker license shall be transferable.
   (c)   Each license is valid from January 1 through December 31, and is
renewable on an annual basis.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-6 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (a)   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals,
extensions, redemptions, or confiscations, every licensee must immediately
record in English the following information by using ink or other indelible
medium on forms or in a computerized record approved by the Village Police
Department.
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or pledged
therefor.
      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates, and all pawn fees and charges.
      (4)   Date, time, and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric identifier that distinguishes it
from all other transactions in the licensee’s records.
      (5)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth, and accurate description of the person from whom the
item of the property was received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color
of eyes, and color of hair.
      (6)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         a.   Current valid state driver’s license;
         b.   Current valid state ID card; and
         c.   Current valid photo ID card issued by another state or province
of Canada.
      (7)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction;
      (8)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the Village
Police Department of acceptable video standards, the licensee must also take a
color photograph or color video recording of:
         a.   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
         b.   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
            1.   If a photograph is taken, it must be at least two inches in
length by two inches in width and must be maintained in such a manner that the
photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. Such photographs must be available to the
Police Chief, or his or her designee, upon request. The major portion of the
photograph must include an identifiable facial image of the person who pawned
or sold the item. Items photographed must be accurately depicted. The licensee
must inform the person that he or she is being photographed by displaying a
sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous location on the premises. The licensee
must keep the exposed videotape for three months.
            2.   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the Village
Police Department licensees must fulfill the color photograph requirements in
this subsection (a)(8) by submitting them as digital images, in a format
specified by the issuing authority, electronically cross-referenced to the
reportable transaction they are associated with. Notwithstanding the digital
images may be captured from required video recordings, this provision does not
alter or amend the requirements in this subsection (a)(8).
      (9)   For renewals, extensions, redemptions, and confiscations the
licensee shall provide the original transaction identifier, the date of the
current transaction, and the type of transaction.
      (10)   The records must at all reasonable times be open to inspection by
the Police Department. Data entries shall be retained for at least three years
from the date of transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be
retained a minimum of 90 days.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-7 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (a)   Effective no later than 60 days after the Village Police Department
provides licensees with the current version of the automated pawn system (APS)
interchange file specification, licensees must submit every reportable
transaction to the Police Department daily in the following manner.
      (1)   Licensees must provide to the Police Department all reportable
transaction information by transferring it from their computer to the automated
pawn system via modem using the current version of the automated pawn system
interchange file specification.
      (2)   All required records must be transmitted completely and accurately
after the close of business each day in accordance with standards and
procedures established by the issuing authority. Any transaction that does not
meet the automated pawn system interchange file specification must be corrected
and resubmitted the next business day.
      (3)   The licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a
conspicuous location on the premises, which informs patrons that all
transactions are reported to the Village Police Department daily.
   (b)   Licensees shall be charged for each billable transaction reported to
the Village Police Department.
      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department, upon
request, printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the video
tape(s) for that date, by noon the following business day.
      (2)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must continue to provide the required reports as detailed herein, and
shall be charged $248 reporting failure penalty daily, until the error is
corrected.
      (3)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s system,
the licensee must continue to provide the necessary reports as required herein,
and resubmit all such transactions via modem when the error is corrected.
      (4)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize, or transmit the
photographs required in §
7-12-6(a)(8) the licensee must immediately take all required photographs with a
still camera, cross-reference the photographs to the correct transaction, and
make the pictures available to the Sheriff’s Department upon request.
      (5)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day during which the problem existed.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the reports required herein, the Village Police
Department may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, request a delay
in the implementation of the daily reporting penalty from the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-8 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years.
   (b)   The receipt must include the following information.
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the licensed business.
      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee.
      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, and the nature of the
transaction.
      (4)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction.
      (6)   The amount advanced or paid.
      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges.
      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date.
      (9)   The full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number, and date of birth of the pledger or seller.
      (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         a.   Current valid state driver’s license.
         b.   Current valid state ID card.
         c.   Current valid photo driver’s license or ID card issued by another
state or province of Canada.
      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller including approximate sex,
height, weight, race, color of eyes, and color of hair.
      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-9 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   (a)   Any person pledging, pawning, or depositing an item for security must
have a minimum of 60 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item
before it may be forfeited and sold. During this 60-day redemption period,
items may not be removed from the licensed location except as provided in this
chapter. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to anyone other than
the person to whom the receipt was issued or, to any person identified in a
written and notarized authorization to redeem the property identified in the
receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger at the time of the
initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with approval of the Police
Chief, or his or her designee. Written authorization for release of property to
persons other than original pledger must be maintained along with original
transaction in accordance with this chapter.
   (b)   An individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received
on deposit, excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-10 HOLDING PERIOD.
   (a)   Except as provided in §
7-12-11(c), any secondhand article purchased or received by a pawnbroker shall
be kept on the premises or other place for safekeeping for not less than 30
days after the date of purchase or receipt, unless the person known by the
pawnbroker to be the lawful owner of the secondhand article redeems it.
   (b)   During this holding period, the secondhand article shall be held
separate from saleable inventory and may not be altered in any manner. The
pawnbroker shall permit any law enforcement officer to inspect the secondhand
article during this period. Within 24 hours after a request of a law
enforcement officer during this period, a pawnbroker shall make available for
inspection any secondhand article which is kept off the premises for
safekeeping.
   (c)   The above subsections (a) and (b) above do not apply to a secondhand
article consigned to a pawnbroker.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-11 POLICE CHIEF TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (a)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant to this
section, whichever comes first.
   (b)   Order to hold. Whenever the Police Chief, or his or her designee,
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Police Chief,
or his or her designee. This order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date
it is placed unless the Police Chief, or his or her designee, determines the
hold is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
   (c)   Order to confiscate. If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in
a criminal case, the Police Chief, or his or her designee, may:
      (1)   Physically confiscate and remove it from the licensed premises,
pursuant to a written order from the Police Chief, or his or her designee; or
      (2)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in this
section and leave it at the premises.
   (d)   When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall provide
identification upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the licensee the
name and phone number of the confiscating agency and investigator, and the case
number related to the confiscation.
   (e)   When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the Police
Chief, or his or her designee, shall so notify the licensee.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-12 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the term of the license, the licensee must allow law
enforcement officials to enter the premises where the licensed business is
located, including all off-site storage facilities as authorized in this
chapter during normal business hours, except in an emergency, for the purpose
of inspecting such premises and inspecting the items, wares, and merchandise,
and records therein to verify compliance with this chapter or other applicable
laws.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-13 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased, or received into inventory from any reportable transaction.
Permanently recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies
the transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the
item, and the description or the model and serial number of the item as
reported to the Village Police Department, whichever is applicable; and the
date the item is out of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be
re-used for any reason.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-14 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (a)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell, or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any pawnbroker, nor may any pawnbroker receive any
goods from a person under the age of 18 years, except as permitted by a
pawnbroker may engage in a transaction as herein if the minor is accompanied by
his or her parent or legal guardian at the time of the transaction and the
parent or legal guardian signs the transaction form and provides identification
as required by this chapter.
   (b)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (c)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid state ID card,
or current valid photo driver’s license or ID card issued by the state or
providence of residency of the person from whom the item was received.
   (d)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (e)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property not their own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell,
consign, leave, or deposit the property of another, whether with permission or
without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property in which another has a security interest; with any
licensee.
   (f)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious
name; nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address
of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another, to any licensee.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-15 LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   (a)   The Village Board may deny, suspend, or revoke any license issued by
it under this chapter for fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement
contained in the application for a license, or for any violation of this
chapter or state law, or for any other violation of local, state, or federal
law substantially related to the businesses licensed under this chapter.
   (b)   The Village Board may deny, suspend, or revoke any license issued by
it under this chapter if the applicant is not a citizen of the United States or
a resident alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a
background or financial investigation due to the unavailability of information.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-16 BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE LOCATION.
   (a)   A license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the Police Chief, or his or her designee, may
approve an off-site locked and secured storage facility. The licensee shall
permit inspection of the facility in accordance with §
7-12-12.
   (b)   All provisions of this chapter regarding recordkeeping and reporting
apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be stored in compliance
with all provisions of the village code. The licensee must either own the
building in which the business is conducted, and any approved off-site storage
facility, or have a lease on the business premises that extends for more than
six months.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
§ 7-12-17 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, subsection, clause, or other provision of this chapter
be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the ordinance comprised in this chapter as a
whole, or any part other than part so declared invalid.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 8-21-2006)
TITLE 8: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Chapter
   
1.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
   
2.   POLLUTION ABATEMENT
   
3.   REFUSE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
CHAPTER 1: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
8-1-1   Rules and regulations
   
8-1-2   Health nuisances; abatement of
   
8-1-3   Deposit of deleterious substances prohibited
   
8-1-4   Destruction of noxious weeds
   
8-1-5   Regulation of natural lawns
   
8-1-6   Regulation of length of lawn and grasses
   
8-1-7   Compulsory connection to Village Sewer and Water System
§ 8-1-1 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Board, acting as Board of Health, may make reasonable and
general rules for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and for the
prevention of the creation of health nuisances, and the protection of the
public health and welfare and may, where appropriate, require the issuance of
licenses and permits. All such regulations shall have the same effect as
ordinances, and any person violating any of such regulations and any lawful
order of the Board shall be subject to the general penalty provided for in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 8-1-2 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT OF.
   (a)   Defined. A HEALTH NUISANCE is any source of filth or cause of
sickness.
   (b)   Duty to abate. The Board of Health shall abate health nuisances
pursuant to Wis. Stats. Chapter 146.14, which is adopted by reference and made
a part of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 146.14
§ 8-1-3 DEPOSIT OF DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any public street or on
any public ground or on any private property not his or her own any refuse,
garbage, litter, waste material, or liquid, or any other objectionable material
or liquid. When any such material is placed on the person’s own private
property, it shall be properly enclosed and covered so as to prevent the same
from becoming a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 8-1-4 DESTRUCTION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (a)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall annually on or before May 15 publish as required by state
law a notice that every person is required by law to destroy all noxious weeds
on lands in the village which he or she owns, occupies, or controls. A joint
notice with other towns or municipalities may be utilized.
   (b)   If the owner or occupant shall neglect to destroy any weeds as
required by such notice, then the Weed Commissioner of the village shall give
five days’ written notice by mail to the owner or occupant of any lands upon
which the weeds shall be growing to the effect that the said Weed Commissioner,
after the expiration of the five-day period, will proceed to destroy or cause
to be destroyed all such weeds growing upon said lands, and that the cost
thereof will be assessed as a tax upon the lands upon which such weeds are
located under the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 66.0407. In case the owner or
occupant shall further neglect to comply within such five-day notice, then the
Weed Commissioner shall destroy such weeds or cause them to be destroyed in the
manner deemed to be the most economical method and the expense thereof,
including the cost of billing and other necessary administrative expenses,
shall be charged against such lots and be collected as a special tax thereon.
   (c)   (1)   As provided for in Wis. Stats. § 66.0407(1)(b), the village
shall require that all noxious weeds shall be destroyed prior to the time in
which such plants would mature to the bloom or flower state. The growth of
noxious weeds in excess of eight inches in height from the ground surface shall
be prohibited within the village corporate limits. Noxious weeds shall include
any weed, grass, or similar plant growth which, if allowed to pollinate, would
cause or produce hayfever in human beings or would cause a skin rash through
contact with the skin. Noxious weeds, as defined in this section and in §
8-1-6, shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
         a.   Cirsium arvense (Canada Thistle).
         b.   Ambrosia artemisiifolia (common Ragweed).
         c.   Ambrosia trifida (Great Ragweed).
         d.   Euphorbia esula (Leafy Spurge).
         e.   Convolvulus arvensis (Creeping Jenny, Field Bind Weed).
         f.   Tragopogon dubius (Goat’s Beard).
         g.   Rhus radicans (poison ivy).
         h.   Cirsium vulgaries (Bull Thistle).
         i.   Pastinaca sativa (Wild Parsnip).
         j.   Arctium minus (Burdock).
         k.   Xanthium strumarium (Cocklebur).
         l.   Amaranthus retroflexus (Pigweed).
         m.   Chenopodium album (Common Lambsquarter).
         n.   Rumex Crispus (Curled Dock).
         o.   Cannabis sativa (Hemp).
         p.   Plantago lancellata (English Plantain).
      (2)   Noxious grasses, as defined in this section and in §
8-1-6, shall include but not be limited to the following.
         a.   Agrostia alba (Redtop).
         b.   Poa pratensis (Kentucky Blue).
         c.   Sorghum halepense (Johnson).
         d.   Setaria (Foxtail).
      (3)   Noxious weeds are also the following plants and other rank growth.
         a.   Ragweed.
         b.   Thistles.
         c.   Smartweed.
         d.   Dandelions (over eight inches in height).
         e.   Milkweed (over eight inches in height).
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 66.96
§ 8-1-5 REGULATION OF NATURAL LAWNS.
   (a)   Natural lawns defined. NATURAL LAWN, as used in this section, shall
include common species of grass and wild flowers native to North America which
are designed and purposely cultivated to exceed 12 inches in height from the
ground. Specifically excluded in natural lawns are the noxious grasses and
weeds identified in §
8-1-4. The growth of a natural lawn in excess of 12 inches in height from the
ground surface shall be prohibited within the village corporate limits unless a
natural lawn management plan is approved and a permit is issued by the village
as set forth in this section. NATURAL LAWNS shall not contain litter or debris,
and shall not harbor undesirable wildlife.
   (b)   Natural lawn management plan defined.
      (1)   NATURAL LAWN MANAGEMENT PLAN, as used in this section, shall mean a
written plan relating to the management and maintenance of a lawn which
contains a legal description of the lawn upon which the planted grass will
exceed 12 inches in length, a statement of intent and purpose for the lawn, a
detailed description of the vegetational types, plants, and plant succession
involved, and the specific management and maintenance techniques to be
employed.
      (2)   Property owners who wish to plant and cultivate a natural lawn must
submit their written plan and related information on the form provided by the
village. PROPERTY OWNER shall be defined to include the legal title holder and/
or the beneficial owner of any such lot according to most current village
records. Natural lawn management plans shall only indicate the planting and
cultivating of natural lawns on property legally owned by the property owner.
Applicants are strictly prohibited from developing a natural lawn on any
village-owned property, including street rights-of-way. This shall include at a
minimum property located between the sidewalk and the street or a strip not
less than ten feet adjacent to the street where there is no sidewalk whether
the area is under public or private ownership. In addition, natural lawns shall
not be permitted within ten feet of the abutting property owner’s property
unless waived in writing by the abutting property owner on the side so
affected. Such waiver is to be affixed to the lawn management plan.
      (3)   Any subsequent property owner who abuts an approved natural lawn
may revoke the waiver thereby requiring the owner of the natural lawn to remove
the natural lawn that is located in the ten-foot section abutting the
neighboring property owner. Such revocation shall be put in writing and
presented to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, by the subsequent abutting property owner. Upon receiving the
written request to revoke the original waiver, the Village Board shall contact
the owner of the approved natural lawn and direct the owner to remove the
natural lawn located in the ten-foot section abutting the neighboring property
owner. The Village Board shall revise the approved natural lawn management
permit accordingly. The owner of the approved natural lawn shall be required to
remove the ten-foot section abutting the neighboring property owner within 20
days of receipt of the written notification from the village provided the
notification is received sometime between May 1 and November 1. Property owners
who receive notification from the village between November 1 and April 30 shall
be required to remove the ten-foot section abutting the neighboring property
owner no later than May 20 following receipt of the notification.
   (c)   Application process.
      (1)   Property owners interested in applying for permission to establish
a natural lawn shall obtain and complete an application form available from the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. The
completed application shall include a natural lawn management plan. Upon
submitting a completed application, a $25 non-refundable filing fee will be
assessed by the village. Upon receiving payment, copies of the completed
application shall be mailed by the village to each of the owners of record, as
listed in the office of the Village Assessor, who are owners of the property
situated wholly or in part within 300 feet of the boundaries of the properties
for which the application is made. If within 15 calendar days of mailing the
copies of the complete application to the neighboring property owners the
village receives written objections from 51% or more of the neighboring
property owners, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, shall immediately deny the application. NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
OWNERS shall be defined as all those property owners who are located within 300
feet of the proposed natural lawn site.
      (2)   If the property owner’s application is in full compliance with the
natural lawn management plan requirements and less than 51% of the neighboring
property owners provide written objections, the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall issue permission to install
a natural lawn.
   (d)   Application for appeal. The property owner may appeal the
Administrator’s decision to deny the natural lawn permit request to the Village
Board at an open meeting. All applications for appeal shall be submitted within
15 calendar days of the notice of denial of the natural lawn management plan.
The decision rendered by the Village Board shall be final and binding.
   (e)   Safety precautions for natural grass areas.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the Fire Chief of the Department serving
the village, the presence of a natural lawn may constitute a fire or safety
hazard due to weather and/or other conditions, the Fire Chief may order the
cutting of natural lawns to a safe condition. As a condition of receiving
approval of the natural lawn permit, the property owner shall be required to
cut the natural lawn within the three days upon receiving written direction
from the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Natural lawns shall not be removed through the process of burning
unless stated and approved as one of the management and maintenance techniques
in the lawn management plan. The Fire Chief shall review all requests to burn
natural lawns and shall determine if circumstances are correct and all
applicable requirements have been fulfilled to ensure public safety. Burning of
natural lawns shall be strictly prohibited unless a written permit to burn is
issued by the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall establish a written list of
requirements for considering each request to burn natural lawns, thereby
ensuring the public safety. In addition, the property owner requesting
permission to burn the natural lawn shall produce evidence of property damage
and liability insurance identifying the village as a party insured. A minimum
amount of acceptable insurance shall be $300,000.
   (f)   Revocation of an approved natural lawn management plan permit. The
Village President, upon the recommendation of the Weed Commissioner, shall have
the authority to revoke an approved natural lawn management plan permit if the
owner fails to maintain the natural lawn or comply with the provisions set
forth in this section. Notice of intent to revoke an approved natural lawn
management plan permit shall be appealable to the Village Board. All
applications for appeal shall be submitted within 15 calendar days of receipt
of the written notice of intent to revoke the approved natural lawn management
plan. Failure to file an application for appeal within the 15 calendar days
shall result in the revoking of the natural lawn management plan permit. All
written applications for appeal filed within the 15 calendar day requirement
shall be reviewed by the Village Board in an open meeting. The decision
rendered by the Village Board shall be final and binding.
   (g)   Public nuisance defined; abatement after notice.
      (1)   The growth of a natural lawn as defined in this section shall be
considered a public nuisance unless a natural lawn management plan has been
filed and approved, and a permit is issued by the village as set forth in this
section. Violators shall be served with a notice of public nuisance by
certified mail to the last-known mailing address of the property owner.
      (2)   If the person so served with a notice of public nuisance violation
does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the Enforcement Officer may
proceed to abate such nuisance. Keeping an account of the expense of the
abatement, and such expense shall be charged to and paid by such property
owner. Notice of the bill for abatement of the public nuisance shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises and shall be payable within ten calendar days from
receipt thereof. Within 60 days after such costs and expenses are incurred and
remain unpaid, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, shall enter those charges onto the tax roll as a special tax as
provided by state statute.
      (3)   The failure of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, to record such claim or to mail such notice or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to place
the village expense on the tax rolls for unpaid bills for abating the public
nuisance as provided for in this section.
   (h)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation which does not abate the nuisance
within the required time period or who otherwise violates the provisions of
this section shall be subject to the general penalty found in §
1-1-6.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties herein provided, the village may issue
stop work orders upon owners of lots where work is unfinished under a
previously issued building permit for any violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 8-1-6 REGULATION OF LENGTH OF LAWN AND GRASSES.
   (a)   Purpose. This section is adopted due to the unique nature of the
problems associated with lawns, grasses, and noxious weeds being allowed to
grow to excessive length in the village.
   (b)   Public nuisance declared. The Village Board finds that lawns, grasses,
and noxious weeds on non-agricultural lots or parcels of land, as classified
under the village zoning code, within the village which exceed 12 inches in
length adversely affect the public health and safety of the public in that they
tend to emit pollen and other discomforting bits of plants, constitute a fire
hazard and a safety hazard in that debris can be hidden in the grass,
interferes with the public convenience, and adversely affects property values
of other land within the village. For that reason, any non-agricultural lawn,
grass, or weed on a lot or other parcel of land which exceeds 12 inches in
length is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, except for property located
in a designated floodplain area and/or wetland area, or where the lawn, grass,
or weed is part of a natural lawn approved pursuant to §
8-1-5.
   (c)   Nuisances prohibited. No person, firm, or corporation shall permit any
public nuisance, as defined in subsection (b) above, to remain on any premises
owned or controlled by him or her within the village.
   (d)   Inspection. The Weed Commissioner, or his or her designee, shall
inspect or cause to be inspected all premises and places within the village to
determine whether any public nuisance, as defined in subsection (b) above,
exists.
   (e)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   If the Weed Commissioner shall determine with reasonable certainty
that any public nuisance, as defined in subsection (b) above, exists, he or she
shall immediately cause written notice to be served that the village proposes
to have the lot grass or lawn cut so as to conform with this section and §
8-1-5.
      (2)   The notice shall be served at least five days prior to the date of
the hearing, and shall be mailed or served on the owner of the lot or parcel of
land or, if he or she is not known and there is a tenant occupying the
property, then to the tenant, of the time and place at which the hearing will
be held.
   (f)   Due process hearing. If the owner believes that his or her grasses or
weeds are not a nuisance, he or she may request a hearing before the Village
Board. The request for said hearing must be made in writing to the Village
Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest elected official’s, as approrpaite, office
within the five days set forth in the Weed Commissioner’s notice. Upon
application for the hearing, the property owner must deposit a $25 bond. If a
decision is rendered in the property owner’s favor, the $25 will be returned to
the property owner. If the property owner fails to appear for the hearing or if
the decision is rendered against the property owner, the deposit shall be
forfeited and applied to the cost of village personnel abating the nuisance, if
necessary. When a hearing is requested by the owner of the property, a hearing
by the Village Board shall be held within seven days from the date of the
owner’s request. The property in question will not be mowed by the village
until such time as the hearing is held by the Board. At the hearing, the owner
may appear in person or by his or her attorney, may present witnesses in his or
her own behalf, and may cross-examine witnesses presented by the village as
well as subpoena witnesses for his or her own case. At the close of the
hearing, the Village Board shall make its determination in writing specifying
its findings, facts, and conclusions. If the Village Board determines that a
public nuisance did exist, the Board shall order the Weed Commissioner to mow
the property in question unless the property has been mowed by the owner within
48 hours of the Village Board’s decision. If the owner does not abate the
nuisance within the described 48 hours, the Weed Commissioner shall cause the
same nuisance to be abated and cost in excess of the forfeited fee assessed
accordingly.
   (g)   Village’s option to abate nuisance. In any case where the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of the property shall fail to cut his or her
lawn, grass, or weeds as set forth above, then, and in that event, the village
may elect to cut said lawn, grass, or weeds as follows:
      (1)   The written notice required in subsection (e) above shall inform
said person that in the event of his or her failure to abate the nuisance
within the prescribed time, the village shall abate the same and the cost
thereof shall be assessed to the property owner as a special charge.
      (2)   The village shall cut or cause to be cut all grass and weeds from
the subject’s property and shall charge the expenses of so doing at a rate as
established by resolution by the Village Board. The charges shall be set forth
in a statement to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, who, in turn, shall mail the same to the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of the subject premises. If said statement is not
paid in full within 30 days thereafter, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall enter the charges in the tax
roll as a special tax against said lot or parcel of land, and the same shall be
collected in all respects like other taxes upon real estate, or as provided
under Wis. Stats. § 66.0627.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 8-1-7 COMPULSORY CONNECTION TO VILLAGE SEWER AND WATER SYSTEM.
   (a)   Whenever public sewer or water service has become available to any
building used for human habitation or human occupancy, the Village Board shall
notify in writing the owner, agent, or occupant thereof to connect such
facilities thereto. If such persons to whom the notice has been given shall
fail to comply for more than ten days after notice, the Village Board shall
cause the necessary connections to be made and the expenses thereof to be
assessed as a special tax against the property pursuant to Wis. Stats. §
281.45.
   (b)   The Village Board may extend the time for connection hereunder or may
grant other temporary relief where strict enforcement would work an unnecessary
hardship without corresponding public or private benefit.
   (c)   This section is enacted pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 281.45, or Chapter
144.06.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
CHAPTER 2: POLLUTION ABATEMENT
Section
   
8-2-1   Cleanup of spilled or accidentally discharged wastes
   
8-2-2   Storage of polluting substances
§ 8-2-1 CLEANUP OF SPILLED OR ACCIDENTALLY DISCHARGED WASTES.
   (a)   Cleanup required. All persons, firms, or corporations delivering,
hauling, disposing, storing, discharging, or otherwise handling potentially
polluting substances, solid or liquid, such as, but not limited to, the
following: fuel oil, gasoline, solvents, industrial liquids or fluids, milk,
grease trap and septic tank wastes, sewage sludge, sanitary sewer wastes, storm
sewer catch-basin wastes, oil, or petroleum wastes, shall immediately clean up
any such spilled material to prevent its becoming a hazard to health or safety,
or directly or indirectly causing pollution to the lakes and streams under the
jurisdiction of the village.
   (b)   Notification. Spills or accidental release of hazardous materials or
pollutants at a site or of a quantity or nature that cannot adequately be
cleaned up by the responsible party or parties shall be immediately reported to
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
so that assistance can be given by the proper agency.
   (c)   Financial liability. The party or parties responsible for the release,
escape, or discharge of wastes shall be held financially liable for the cost of
any cleanup or attempted cleanup deemed necessary or desirable and undertaken
by the village, or its designated agent, in an effort to minimize the
pollutional effects of the discharged waste.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 8-2-2 STORAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to store any
potentially polluting substances unless such substances are stored in such
manner as to securely prevent them from escaping onto the ground surface and/or
into any street, sewer, ditch, or drainageway, lake, or stream within the
jurisdiction of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
CHAPTER 3: REFUSE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
Section
   
8-3-1   Title
   
8-3-2   Declaration of policy
   
8-3-3   Definitions
   
8-3-4   Refuse storage areas
   
8-3-5   Approved waste and refuse containers
   
8-3-6   Collection of refuse
   
8-3-7   Prohibited activities and non-collectible materials
   
8-3-8   Garbage accumulation; when a nuisance
   
8-3-9   Refuse from outside the municipality
   
8-3-10   Improper use of trash receptacles
   
8-3-11   Mandatory recycling
§ 8-3-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Solid Waste Management Ordinance of the
Village of Turtle Lake,” hereinafter referred to as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 8-3-2 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to
enhance and improve the environment and promote the health, safety, and welfare
of the village by establishing minimum standards for the storage, collection,
transport, processing, separation, recovery, and disposal of solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 8-3-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment engaged in the rearing and
slaughtering of animals and the processing of animal products or orchard and
field crops.
   BULKY WASTE. Items whose large size precludes or complicates their handling
by normal collection, processing, or disposal methods.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. Commercial units shall be all property other than
residential units and shall include boarding houses, motels, and resorts.
   CURB. The back edge or curb and gutter along a paved street, or where one
would be if the street was paved and had curb and gutter.
   DEMOLITION WASTES. The portion of solid wastes consisting of wastes from the
repair, remodeling, or reconstruction of buildings, such as lumber, roofing,
and sheathing scraps, rubble, broken concrete, asphalt and plaster, conduit,
pipe, wire, insulation, and any other materials resulting from the demolition
of buildings and improvements.
   DISPOSAL. The orderly process of discarding useless or unwanted material.
   DNR. The State Department of Natural Resources.
   DUMP. A land site where solid waste is disposed of in a manner that does not
protect the environment.
   DWELLING UNIT. A place of habitation occupied by a normal single-family unit
or a combination of persons who may be considered as equivalent to a single-
family unit for the purposes of this chapter.
   GARBAGE. Includes every refuse accumulation of animals, fruit or vegetable
matter, liquid, or otherwise, that attends the preparation, use, cooking,
dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetables originally
used for foodstuffs.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those wastes such as toxic, radioactive, or pathogenic
substances which require special handling to avoid illness or injury to
persons, or damage to property and the environment.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste material, except garbage, rubbish, and refuse,
directly or indirectly resulting from an industrial processing or manufacturing
operation.
   LITTER. Solid waste scattered about in a careless manner, usually rubbish.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste from agricultural, commercial,
industrial, or institutional activities or a building, or group of buildings
consisting of four or more dwelling units.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, corporations, and associations, and includes the
plural as well as the singular.
   PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICES. Collection services provided by a person
licensed to do same by the DNR.
   RECYCLABLE WASTE. Waste material that can be remanufactured into usable
products and shall include, by way of enumeration but not by way of limitation,
glass, plastics, newspapers, cardboard, metals (aluminum, steel, tin, brass,
and the like).
   REFUSE. Includes all waste material, including garbage, rubbish, and
industrial waste and shall, by way of enumeration but not by way of limitation,
include grass, leaves, sticks, tree branches and logs, stumps, stone, cement,
boards, furniture or household appliances, or garden debris.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. All solid waste that normally originates in a
residential environment from residential dwelling units.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. An individual household capable of independent habitation
by a family unit. A single-family dwelling shall be considered to be one
residential unit; multi-family dwelling shall be considered to be multiple
residential units, the number of residential units to equal the number of
family units to be housed therein. RESIDENTIAL UNITS shall not include boarding
houses, motels, or resorts.
   RUBBISH. Includes combustible and noncombustible waste material, except
rocks, concrete, bricks, and similar solid materials, plaster, or dirt, that is
incidental to the operation of a building and shall include, by way of
enumeration but not by way of limitation, tin cans, bottles, rags, paper,
cardboard, sweepings.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled removal of materials at any point in solid
waste management.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, and other useless, unwanted or discarded
material from agricultural, residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional activities. SOLID WASTE does not include solid or dissolved
material in domestic sewage.
   STORAGE. The interim containment of solid waste in an approved manner after
generation and prior to collection and ultimate disposal.
   STORAGE AREAS. Areas where persons place containers during non-collection
days as well as areas where containers are set out on collection day.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 8-3-4 REFUSE STORAGE AREAS.
   Storage areas shall be kept in a nuisance- and odor-free condition. Litter
shall not be allowed to accumulate. Collection crews will not be responsible
for cleaning up loose materials from any containers which have become ruptured
or broken due to wet conditions, animals, vandalism, or other cause. The
occupant and/or owner shall be responsible for cleaning up this litter. Litter
not collected shall not be allowed to accumulate. Violation will result in the
occupant and/or owner being notified to clean up his or her area with continued
violation resulting in the owner being prosecuted under the provisions of this
chapter and other village ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4)
§ 8-3-5 APPROVED WASTE AND REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   (a)   General container standards. Suitable containers of a type approved by
the village shall be provided by the property owner or tenant in which to store
all solid waste except for bulky or certain yard wastes as provided for herein.
Containers, in order to be approved, shall provide for efficient, safe, and
sanitary handling of solid wastes. They shall be maintained in a nuisance- and
odor-free condition and shall be sufficient to prevent the scattering of
contents by weather conditions or animals.
   (b)   Approved containers. All garbage created, accumulated, or produced
shall be deposited in containers of a type approved by the Village Board and
its collection contractor. Each container for a residential unit shall be
equipped with suitable handles and tight-fitting covers, shall be watertight
and shall have the capacity of not less than ten gallons and not more than 30
gallons. All garbage containers shall be kept in a neat, clean, and sanitary
condition at all times. All garbage containers for residential units shall be
of metal, durable plastic, or other suitable, moisture-resistant materials,
including heavy-duty refuse disposal plastic bags and shall not exceed 30
gallon capacity. Other containers for multi-family residential units (such as
dumpsters) may be used with the express approval of the Village Board.
Containers including contents shall not exceed in weight that which one person
can safely lift 60 pounds. Metal garbage cans shall be of sufficient thickness
to resist denting during normal handing by collection crews. Plastic garbage
bags must be closed with a tie and shall consist of plastic material not
damaged by freezing and not susceptible to melting. They shall be capable of
being handled during hot and cold weather without damage during normal handling
by collection crews. Plastic bags shall be of sufficient strength to allow
lifting and loading of contents without tearing. Garbage and rubbish may be
combined in the same container except that open containers shall not contain
garbage or material that may blow about.
   (c)   Householder to provide containers. It shall be the duty of every
occupant, tenant, or proprietor of any residential unit to provide, and at all
times keep in a suitable place readily accessible to the garbage collector,
garbage containers capable of holding all garbage which would ordinarily
accumulate on such premises between the times of successive collections. The
owner of any multiple dwelling shall furnish or require the tenant thereof to
furnish proper garbage containers. Garbage containers located at multiple
dwellings shall be marked so as to indicate the residential unit to which they
belong.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5)
§ 8-3-6 COLLECTION OF REFUSE.
   (a)   Placement for collection; residential.
      (1)   Residential solid waste shall be accessible to collection crews.
Residential solid waste in approved containers shall be placed immediately
behind the curb of the public street for collection or containers shall be
placed immediately adjacent to the alley if premises abut on an alley. Yard and
bulky wastes from residential units shall likewise be placed in neat, orderly
fashion behind the curb. During winter months, solid waste shall not be placed
on top of the snow bank, nor shall it be placed in the roadway. The owner shall
either shovel out an area behind the curb in which to place his or her wastes,
or he or she shall place it in his or her driveway. Collection crews will not
collect residential solid waste unless it is placed at the curb of a public
street. Residential units shall bring their solid waste to the terrace adjacent
to the street curb for collection. Should collection crews be unable to
discharge contents of garbage cans into collection vehicles using normal
handing procedures, the cans, including contents, will be left at curb side.
The owner shall make provisions to assure that the solid waste therein can be
collected on the next collection day. Collection crews will not empty garbage
cans by means other than dumping.
      (2)   No garbage containers or other containers for refuse other than
those of the village shall be placed, kept, stored, or located within the
right-of-way of a street or alley; provided, however, that the Village Board
may authorize the location of such containers within the public right-of-way at
specified places and times when such location is necessary for the expeditious
collection and disposition of refuse.
   (b)   Restriction on time of placement.
      (1)   Receptacles and containers for refuse and rubbish shall be placed
in collection locations as designated in subsection (a) above prior to 6:00
a.m. of the scheduled collection day, but not more than 24 hours prior to such
time.
      (2)   All receptacles, bags, and containers for refuse and garbage
disposal shall be removed from the curbside collection point within 24 hours
after the regular collection time.
      (3)   Employees of licensed collectors will not enter any structures to
remove garbage or refuse, except by written agreement with the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
§ 8-3-7 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES AND NON-COLLECTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (a)   Dead animals. It shall be unlawful to place any dead animal, or parts
thereof, in a container for collection provided, however, this section shall
not apply to animal parts from food preparation for human consumption.
   (b)   Undrained food wastes. It shall be unlawful to place any garbage or
other food wastes in a container for collection unless it is first drained and
wrapped.
   (c)   Improper placement. It shall be unlawful to place, or allow to be
placed, any solid waste upon the roads, streets, public, or private property
within the village contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   Compliance with chapter. It shall be unlawful to store, collect,
transport, transfer, recover, incinerate, or dispose of any solid waste within
the boundaries of the village contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   Improper transportation. It shall be unlawful to transport any solid
waste in any vehicle which permits the contents to blow, sift, leak, or fall
therefrom. If spillage does occur, the collection crew shall immediately return
spilled materials to the collection vehicle and shall properly clean, or have
cleaned, the area. All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of
solid waste shall be durable, easily cleanable, and leakproof, if necessary,
considering the type of waste and its moisture content. Collection vehicles
shall be cleaned frequently to prevent nuisances and insect breeding, and shall
be maintained in good repair.
   (f)   Interference with authorized collector. No person other than an
authorized collector shall collect or interfere with any garbage after it shall
have been put into a garbage receptacle and deposited in the proper place for
the collector, nor shall any authorized person molest, hinder, delay, or in any
manner interfere with an authorized garbage collector in the discharge of his
or her duties.
   (g)   Scavenging. It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any solid
waste or refuse placed for collection on the terrace without the permission of
the owner.
   (h)   Private dumps. It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate a
dump.
   (i)   Burning of waste. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn solid
waste in any manner, except as provided elsewhere in this code of ordinances.
   (j)   Non-collectible materials. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place for collection any of the following wastes.
      (1)   Hazardous waste.
      (2)   Toxic waste.
      (3)   Chemicals.
      (4)   Explosives or ammunition.
      (5)   Drain or waste oil or flammable liquids.
      (6)   Large quantities of paint.
      (7)   Tires.
   (k)   Animal or human wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to place
animal wastes and/or human wastes for collection. These wastes should be
disposed of in the sanitary sewer system.
   (l)   Hospital wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to place for
collection any pathogenic hospital wastes. Such items as needles and syringes
may be disposed of as long as they are contained to eliminate injury to
collection crews.
   (m)   Building waste. All waste resulting from remodeling, construction, or
removal of a building, roadway, or sidewalk shall be disposed of by the owner,
builder, or contractor. Building materials of any kind will not be collected.
Building materials shall not be burned at the construction site.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7)
§ 8-3-8 GARBAGE ACCUMULATION; WHEN A NUISANCE.
   The accumulation or deposit of garbage, trash, or putrescible animal or
vegetable matter in or upon any lot or land, or any public or private place
within the village which causes the air or environment to become noxious or
offensive, or to be in such a condition as to promote the breeding of flies,
mosquitoes, or other insects, or to provide a habitat or breeding place for
rodents or other animals, or which otherwise becomes injurious to the public
health is prohibited and declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8)
§ 8-3-9 REFUSE FROM OUTSIDE THE MUNICIPALITY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place, deposit, or
cause to be deposited, for collection, any waste or refuse not generated within
the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-9)
§ 8-3-10 IMPROPER USE OF TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall place in or on any garbage can, dumpster, or other trash
receptacle not belonging to or assigned by the owner of such receptacle to such
person any garbage, refuse, or trash without the permission of the owner or
designated assignee of such receptacle, unless such receptacle is designated
expressly or implicitly for use by the general public.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-10)
§ 8-3-11 MANDATORY RECYCLING.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      DECIDUOUS MATERIALS. Yard wastes such as leaves, grass clippings,
flowers, and other similar vegetation, but specifically excludes sod, dirt,
twigs, fruit, vegetables, and other similar material.
      NEWSPRINT. The portion of newspapers (newspapers and advertising
circulars normally accompanying newspapers) or periodicals and advertising
circulars printed on newsprint which remain in substantially original condition
at the time of disposal such that the material is suitable for commercial-grade
recycling. NEWSPRINT does not include the paper commonly used in the production
of magazines, books, and other physical media for written material or paper
which is not suitable for recycling purposes or is in a state which makes
separation unreasonable or unduly expensive, for reasons which include, but are
not limited to, the following.
         a.   The paper has been put to another use, such as wrappings for
other wastes, and is thus rendered unfit for commercial recycling.
         b.   The paper is no longer flat and folded to the approximate
dimensions of its original condition.
         c.   The paper is mixed in with commercial or municipal litter or
refuse as a result of the failure of citizen or business invitees to separate
newspapers from other discarded materials outdoors or in publicly accessible
areas of buildings.
         d.   The paper has been damaged or altered by any other means so as to
make recycling impossible or unduly difficult.
   (b)   Required recycling. Each residence, residential unit, place of
business, industry, commerce, or other place providing goods or services of any
type shall cooperate in the mandatory recycling of garbage and refuse by
following the provisions of this section.
   (c)   Recyclable materials. All recyclable material shall be separated from
other non-recyclable garbage and refuse, and be placed for collection in
special recycling bins maintained at the recycling drop-off site. Recyclable
materials shall consist of:
      (1)   Glass (brown glass, green glass, and clear glass) shall be rinsed,
clean, unbroken, and have covers and caps removed;
      (2)   Cans (all aluminum, tin, steel, copper, and brass cans) shall be
rinsed, except that aerosol paint and oil cans may not be recycled;
      (3)   Plastics, which shall be rinsed and the labels shall be removed
therefrom;
      (4)   Cardboard of all types shall be flattened and bundled;
      (5)   All newsprint shall be bundled pursuant to subsection (e)(2) below;
and
      (6)   All products made of aluminum, including aluminum cans, foil,
wrappers, pie pans, and containers for prepared dinners or other foods, screen
frames, and lawn chairs shall be clean and flattened.
   (d)   Non-recyclable materials designated. Non-recyclable materials shall
include the following.
      (1)   All Pyrex-type glass, window glass, light bulbs, mirrors, broken
glass, and china shall be considered non-recyclable.
      (2)   Plastics, rigid cottage cheese containers, plastic wraps, egg
cartons, Melmac-type plastics, and all forms of styrofoam shall not be placed
with recyclable materials but shall be disposed of in the manner prescribed for
other non-recyclable refuse.
      (3)   All waxed paper, waxed cardboard, envelopes with gum labels, glossy
paper, magazines, and envelopes with plastic windows shall be considered non-
recyclable paper.
      (4)   All other garbage and refuse not qualifying as recyclable
materials.
   (e)   Newsprint recycling.
      (1)   No person in the village shall dispose of newsprint with refuse,
except for such newsprint rendered unfit for recycling. This subsection (e)
shall apply to all persons, governmental operations and business, commercial,
retail, and industrial enterprises however organized and of whatever type.
      (2)   Newsprint shall not be placed in containers with other refuse or
garbage. Newsprint for recycling shall be bundled with heavy string or cord,
securely tied in both directions. No newsprint bundled for recycling shall
weigh in excess of 25 pounds nor shall such bundle exceed the height of eight
inches.
      (3)   Such newsprint placed for recycling shall become the property of
the village or its collection agent.
   (f)   Disposal of non-recyclable materials. Non-recyclable materials shall
be separated from recyclable materials when placed for scheduled curbside
collection.
   (g)   Mandatory separation of materials for composting. No person in the
village shall dispose of deciduous materials, such as grass clippings and
leaves, with other refuse that may be lawfully deposited. Composted material
shall be disposed of in such locations as established by the Village Board.
   (h)   Burning of waste. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn solid
waste, garbage, or refuse in any manner, including waste and debris at
construction sites.
   (i)   Nondisposable materials.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place for disposal at the
drop-off center any of the following wastes.
         a.   Hazardous waste.
         b.   Toxic waste.
         c.   Chemicals.
         d.   Explosives or ammunition.
         e.   Drain or waste oil or flammable liquids.
         f.   Large quantities of paint.
         g.   Dead animals.
         h.   Trees and stumps.
         i.   Gravel and concrete.
         i.   Construction debris.
         k.   Animal or human waste.
      (2)   The aforementioned materials shall be disposed of in the manner
prescribed by federal or state laws.
   (j)   Hospital/medical wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to place
for collection any pathogenic hospital or medical wastes. Such items as needles
and syringes may be disposed of as long as they are contained to eliminate
injury to disposal personnel.
   (k)   Building waste. All waste resulting from remodeling, construction, or
removal of a building, roadway, or sidewalk shall be disposed of by the owner,
builder, or contractor. Building materials of any kind will not be disposed of
by the village. Building materials shall not be burned at the construction
site.
   (l)   Alteration of recyclable materials. It shall be unlawful to
intentionally alter recyclable materials so as to render them as non-recyclable
material.
   (m)   Title to refuse and recyclable materials. In the absence of an
agreement to the contrary, title to the refuse and recyclable material placed
for disposal shall vest in the village or its authorized agent as soon as it is
placed for collection. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
unauthorized by the village to collect or pick up, or cause to be collected or
picked up any recyclable materials that are placed or left for disposal at the
drop-off center, or by any authorized private entity. Any and each such
unauthorized collection or scavenging of recyclable materials in violation
hereof shall constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as provided
for herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-11)
TITLE 9: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Chapter
   
1.   WATER UTILITY REGULATIONS AND RATES
   
2.   SEWER UTILITY REGULATIONS AND RATES
   
3.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 1: WATER UTILITY REGULATIONS AND RATES
Section
Article A: Rates
   
9-1-1   Public fire protection service; F-1
   
9-1-2   Public fire protection service; suburban F-2
   
9-1-3   General service; metered Mg-1
   
9-1-4   General service; suburban Mg-2
   
9-1-5   General water service; unmetered Ug-1
   
9-1-6   Public service; Mpa-1
   
9-1-7   Seasonal service; Mgt-1
   
9-1-8   Building and construction water service; Mz-1
   
9-1-9   Bulk water; B-1
   
9-1-10   Water and sewer lateral installation charge; Cz-1
   
9-1-11   Reconnection charges; R-1
   
9-1-12   Temporary metered supply; meter and deposits D-1
   
9-1-13   Hydrant charges; H-1
   
9-1-14   Additional meter rental charge; Am-1
   
9-1-15   Private fire protection service; unmetered Upf-1
   
9-1-16   Special assessment of sewer and water mains and extensions
   9-1-17 through 9-1-19   Reserved for future use
Article B: Rules and Regulations
   
9-1-20   Establishing the Water Utility Department
   
9-1-21   Management, operation, and control of the Water Utility Department
   
9-1-22   User rules and regulations
   
9-1-23   Establishment of service
   
9-1-24   Service contract
   
9-1-25   Temporary metered supply, meter, and deposits
   
9-1-26   Water for construction
   
9-1-27   Use of hydrants for construction; temporary supply
   
9-1-28   Operation of valves and hydrants; unauthorized use of water; penalty
   
9-1-29   Refunds of monetary deposits
   
9-1-30   Service connections (or water laterals)
   
9-1-31   Service piping for meter settings
   
9-1-32   Turning on water
   
9-1-33   Failure to read meters
   
9-1-34   Complaint meter tests
   
9-1-35   Thawing frozen services
   
9-1-36   Stop boxes
   
9-1-37   Installation of meters
   
9-1-38   Repairs to meters
   
9-1-39   Replacement and repair of service pipe
   
9-1-40   Charges for water wasted due to leaks
   
9-1-41   Inspection of premises
   
9-1-42   Customer’s deposits
   
9-1-43   Disconnection and refusal of service
   
9-1-44   Surreptitious use of water
   
9-1-45   Vacation of premises
   
9-1-46   Repairs to mains
   
9-1-47   Duty of utility with respect to safety of the public
   
9-1-48   Handling water mains and service pipers in sewer or other trenches
   
9-1-49   Protective devices
   
9-1-50   Cross-connection control
   
9-1-51   Private well abandonment
   
9-1-52   Miscellaneous rules and regulations
   
9-1-50.5   Wellhead protection
ARTICLE A: RATES
§ 9-1-1 PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE; F-1.
   (a)   For public fire protection service to the village, the annual charge
shall be $57,921 to cover the use of mains and hydrants up to, and including,
the terminal hydrant and connection on each main existing for the 1994 test
year.
   (b)   For all extensions of fire protection service, a charge of $0.28 per
lineal foot of main shall be charged per annum on the basis of the length of
main put into use between hydrants placed, plus a charge of $85 net per hydrant
added to the system in excess of the base number of hydrants and footage of
main.
   (c)   This service shall include the use of hydrants for fire protection
service only, and such quantities of water as may be demanded for the purposes
of extinguishing fires within the municipal boundary only. This service shall
also include water used for testing equipment and training personnel. For all
other purposes, the metered or other rates set forth, or as may be filed with
the Public Service Commission, shall apply.
   (d)   The above base annual charge of $57,921 includes an estimated 38,674
feet of distribution main, four inches and larger, and 72 hydrants.
   (e)   The annual public fire protection charge shall never be less than the
base amount. Base rates are as follows:
5/8-inch meter   $14.96
3/4-inch meter   $14.96
1-inch meter     $37.80
1 1/4-inch meter $55.08
1 1/2-inch meter $74.52
2-inch meter     $119.88
3-inch meter     $224.64
4-inch meter     $373.68
6-inch meter     $747.36
8-inch meter     $1,196.64
10-inch meter    $1,794.96
12-inch meter    $2,393.28
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 9-1-2 PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE; SUBURBAN F-2.
   (a)   Water used for extinguishing fires outside the immediate service area
of the Utility may consist of three types of service:
      (1)   Water supplied to tank trucks from utility hydrants;
      (2)   Water supplied directly from hydrants located within the corporate
limits, or on its borders, by means of hose lines; or
      (3)   Water supplied to tank truck from any other utility watersource.
   (b)   (1)   A record of the measured or estimated volume of water used shall
be submitted to the Water Utility Department after each use for fire-protection
outside the Utility’s immediate service area.
      (2)   If measuring or estimating is impossible, the Water Utility
Department Superintendent shall be furnished such data as size of orifice used,
pressure, and time water was permitted to flow, in order to determine volume
used.
   (c)   (1)   A charge for the volume of water used, for each fire either
through a tank supply or from hydrants, will be billed to the township or Fire
Department using water at $1.76 per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   A service charge, in addition to the water charge, shall be $10 per
hydrant used.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 9-1-3 GENERAL SERVICE; METERED MG-1.
   (a)   Quarterly service charge.
5/8-inch meter   $8.64
3/4-inch meter   $8.64
1-inch meter     $12.42
1-1/4-inch meter $16.20
1-1/2-inch meter $19.44
2-inch meter     $30.24
3-inch meter     $52.92
4-inch meter     $88.56
6-inch meter     $122.04
8-inch meter     $184.68
10-inch meter    $267.84
12-inch meter    $351
 
   (b)   Plus volume charge.
 
First 16,667 gallons used each month $3.40 per 1,000 gallons
Next 66,666 gallons used each month  $3.35 per 1,000 gallons
Over 83,333 gallons used each month  $2.48 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (c)   Billing.
      (1)   Responsibility. Bills for water service are the sole responsibility
of the property owner of the premises where the service is provided. All bills
are the obligation of and will be sent to the owner of the property. Billing to
any person(s) other than the listed property owner requires advanced approval
from the Utility Administrator.
      (2)   Payment of bills. Bills for water service are rendered quarterly
and become due and payable on the twenty-fifth of the month following the
period for which service is rendered. A late payment charge of 3% but not less
than $0.30 will be added to bills not paid within 20 days of issuance. This
one-time 3% late payment charge will be applied only to any unpaid balance for
the current billing period’s usage. This late payment charge is applicable to
all customers. The utility customer may be given a written notice that the bill
is overdue no sooner than 20 days after the bill is issued. Unless full payment
or a satisfactory arrangement for payment is made within the next eight days,
service may be disconnected pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter PSC 185. A
$30 charge will be made for processing checks that have been returned for
insufficient funds.
      (3)   Failure to receive bill, no penalty exemption. Every reasonable
care will be exercised in the proper delivery of water bills. Failure to
receive a water bill, however, shall not relieve any person of the
responsibility for payment of water rates within the prescribed period, nor
exempt any person from any penalty imposed for delinquency in the payment
thereof.
   (d)   Combined metering.
      (1)   Volumetric meter readings will be combined for billing if the
Utility for its own convenience places more than one meter on a single water
service lateral. Multiple meters placed for the purpose of identifying water
not discharged into the sanitary sewer are not considered for utility
convenience and shall not be combined for billing. Meter readings from
individually metered separate service laterals shall not be combined for
billing purposes.
      (2)   Buildings used in the same business, located on the same parcel and
served by a single lateral may have the customer’s water supply piping
installed to a central point so that volume can be metered in one place.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 9-1-4 GENERAL SERVICE; SUBURBAN MG-2.
   Water customers residing outside the corporate limits of the village shall
be billed at the regular rates for service (Schedule Mg-1) plus a 25%
surcharge.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
§ 9-1-5 GENERAL WATER SERVICE; UNMETERED UG-1.
   (a)   Rate.
      (1)   Where the Utility cannot immediately install its water meter,
service may be supplied temporarily on an unmetered basis. Such service shall
be billed at the rate of $39.87 per billing period. This rate shall be applied
only to single-family residential and small commercial customers and
approximates the cost of 12,000 gallons per quarter under Mg-1.
      (2)   If it is determined by the Utility that usage is in excess of
12,000 gallons per quarter, an additional charge per Schedule Mg-1 will be made
for the estimated additional usage.
   (b)   Billing. Same as Schedule Mg-1.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5)
§ 9-1-6 PUBLIC SERVICE; MPA-1.
   (a)   Water service supplied to municipal buildings, schools, and the like,
shall be metered and the regular metered service rates applied.
   (b)   (1)   Water used on an intermittent basis for flushing service, street
sprinkling, flooding, skating rinks, drinking fountains, and the like, shall be
metered where meters can be set to measure the service.
      (2)   Where it is impossible to measure the service, the Utility shall
estimate the volume of water used based on the pressure, size of opening and
period of time water is allowed to be drawn, the estimated quantity used shall
be billed at the rate of $1.51 per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6)
§ 9-1-7 SEASONAL SERVICE; MGT-1.
   Seasonal customers shall be served at the general service rate (Mg-1),
except that each customer served under this rate shall pay an annual seasonal
minimum bill equal to four times the applicable quarterly service charge. Water
use in any quarter shall be billed at the applicable volume schedule in Mg-
1 and the charge added to the annual service charge.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7)
§ 9-1-8 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION WATER SERVICE; MZ-1.
   (a)   For single-family and small commercial buildings, apply the unmetered
rate, Schedule Ug-1.
   (b)   For large commercial, industrial, or multiple apartment buildings, a
temporary metered installation shall be made and general, metered rates (Mg-1)
applied.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8)
§ 9-1-9 BULK WATER; B-1.
   All bulk water supplied to fill tank trucks or swimming pools from the water
system through hydrants or other connections shall be metered. Utility
personnel shall supervise the delivery of the water.
 
Service charge     $10
Plus volume charge $3.40 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9)
§ 9-1-10 WATER AND SEWER LATERAL INSTALLATION CHARGE; CZ-1.
   (a)   Subdivision developers shall be responsible, where the main extension
has been approved by the Utility, for the water service lateral installation
costs from the main through the curb stop and box for the sewer lateral
installation costs from the main to the property line.
   (b)   When the cost of a utility main extension is to be collected through
assessment by the municipality, the actual average water lateral installation
costs from the main through the curb stop and box, and the sewer installation
costs from the main to the property line shall be included in the assessment of
the appropriate properties.
   (c)   The initial water and sewer lateral(s), not installed as part of a
subdivision development or an assessable utility extension, will be installed
from the main through the curb stop and box (property line for sewer laterals)
by the Utility, for which there will be made a charge as follows:
 
3/4-inch or 1-inch copper water service $175
4-inch sewer service                    $175
Larger sized services                   Actual cost
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10)
§ 9-1-11 RECONNECTION CHARGES; R-1.
 
                          During Normal Business After Normal Business Hours
                          Hours
Reinstallation of meter,
including valving at curb $40                    $12
stop
Valve turned on at curb   $40                    $9
stop
Notes to Table:
No charge for disconnection.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11)
§ 9-1-12 TEMPORARY METERED SUPPLY; METER AND DEPOSITS D-1.
   (a)   Service charge for setting the valve and furnishing and setting the
meter: $40.
   (b)   Deposit for valve and meter: $40.
   (c)   Water usage shall be billed at scheduled rates.
   (d)   Refunds of deposits will be made upon return of the utility equipment.
Damaged or lost equipment will be repaired or replaced at customer expense.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-12)
§ 9-1-13 HYDRANT CHARGES; H-1.
   (a)   In cases where no other supply is available, hydrants may be used (see
Rule 9-1-2). The following charges shall apply.
      (1)   Service charge for setting or moving sprinkler valve: $10.
      (2)   Hydrant wrench deposit: $10.
      (3)   Reducer (if necessary) deposit: $10.
   (b)   In addition, the projected water usage shall be paid for in advance at
the scheduled rates. The minimum charge for water usage shall be $10.
   (c)   Refunds of deposits will be made upon return of the Utility’s
equipment. Damaged or lost equipment will be repaired or replaced at customer
expense.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-13)
§ 9-1-14 ADDITIONAL METER RENTAL CHARGE; AM-1.
   (a)   If a customer requests the installation of an additional meter to
receive credit for clear water not discharged into the sanitary sewer system,
or if a sewerage service customer who is not a customer of the Water Utility
Department requests the installation of a meter to determine the volume of
sewage discharged into the sanitary sewer system, the Utility shall furnish and
install this additional meter. This rate shall be applied only to single-family
residential and small commercial customers. A rental fee shall be charged for
the use of this meter and the following rates shall apply. The billing period
will be the same as in Schedule Mg-1.
 
5/8-inch meter   $3.50 per billing period
3/4-inch meter   $3.50 per billing period
1-inch meter     $5.25 per billing period
1-1/4-inch meter $7.75 per billing period
1-1/2-inch meter $10.50 per billing period
2-inch meter     $14.00 per billing period
 
   (b)   Initial meter installation charge: $40.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-14)
§ 9-1-15 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE; UNMETERED UPF-1.
   (a)   Service. This service shall consist of unmetered connections to the
main for automatic sprinkler systems, standpipes (where same are connected
permanently or continuously to the mains), and private hydrants.
   (b)   Quarterly demand charges. Quarterly demand charges for private fire
protection service:
Size of Connection Charge
Size of Connection Charge
2-inch             $119.88
3-inch             $224.64
4-inch             $373.68
6-inch             $747.36
8-inch             $1,196.64
10-inch            $1,794.96
12-inch            $2,393.28
 
   (c)   Billing. Same provisions as for general service.
   (d)   Credit for combined service.
      (1)   A credit will be given where private fire protection lines are
connected to utility water mains with four inches or larger diameter
connections, and where the lines also supply metered general service. (No
credit will be given where connections are less than four inches in diameter.)
The general service will be billed at the regular metered rates in Schedule Mg-
1. The demand charge for private fire protection shall be (X-0.30Y). “X” equals
the unmetered private fire protection quarterly demand charge applicable to the
size of connection, and “Y” is the quarterly service charge for metered general
service.
      (2)   The fire demand charge minus the credit shall never be less than
$52.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-15)
§ 9-1-16 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OF SEWER AND WATER MAINS AND EXTENSIONS.
   The village shall special assess the costs of sewer and water mains in
accordance with the following charges and conditions and in accordance with all
state regulations.
   (a)   Sanitary sewer main. The village shall special assess 100% of the
actual cost of the sewer main plus engineering fees over a period of ten years,
at an interest rate of 1% above what the village is charged for interest at the
financial institution where the money for the project is borrowed. There will
be no interest charge for the first installment. The developer/property owner
shall utilize the services of the village’s engineering firm for all
engineering needs of the project. Charges will be assessed by the running foot
or equally among each platted lot receiving service.
   (b)   Water main. The village shall special assess 100% of the actual cost
of the water main plus engineering fees over a ten-year period at an interest
rate of 1% above what the village is charged for interest at the financial
institution where the money for the project is borrowed. There will be no
interest charge for the first installment. The village shall pay for all
necessary fire hydrants. If a service larger than eight inches is required, the
utility will pay the difference between an eight-inch main and the larger
service. The developer/property owner shall utilize the services of the
village’s engineering firm for all engineering needs of the project. Charges
will be assessed by the running foot or equally among each platted lot
receiving service.
   (c)   Extensions of existing sewer and water mains.
      (1)   The village shall extend existing sewer and water mains in
accordance with the following charges, conditions, and in accordance with all
state regulations.
      (2)   a.   When an extension of sewer and water mains is required by the
prospective user, said person shall make application in writing to the Village
Board for consideration at the next regular Village Board meeting.
         b.   The village shall first determine the logical location of the
next manhole or manholes. Next, the village shall determine the length and
location of the extension, taking into consideration the prospective demands
for service, the capacity of downstream facilities, and the orderly development
of the particular area.
      (3)   a.   No extension shall be made for a distance of less than 300
feet to the next manhole. The person who requests the extension shall pay the
entire cost of said extension including the manhole or manholes that are part
of the extension.
         b.   If more than one user is involved, the entire cost shall be
divided by running foot or equally among each platted lot receiving service.
Special assessment for new construction or extension of existing sewer and
water mains/lines shall be tax rolled upon the real estate property tax bill of
the property owner as of the year in which the construction or extension
project is completed as of January 1 of that year.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-16) (Ord. passed - -)
§§ 9-1-17 THROUGH 9-1-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE B: RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 9-1-20 ESTABLISHING THE WATER UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   This article is an ordinance establishing the Water Utility Department of
the village and establishing water rates, rules, and regulations concerning the
government thereof and also concerning government of water takers, licensed
plumbers, and others, and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-20)
§ 9-1-21 MANAGEMENT, OPERATION, AND CONTROL OF THE WATER UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Management. The management, operation, and control of the water system
for the village is vested in the Board of said village: all records, minutes,
all written proceedings, and financial records thereof shall be kept by the
Administrator of the village.
   (b)   Operation and control.
      (1)   The Water Utility Department of the village shall have the power to
construct water lines for public use, and shall have the power to lay water
pipes in and through the alleys, streets, and public grounds of the village;
and generally, to all such work as may be found necessary or convenient in the
management of the water system.
      (2)   The Village Board shall have power by themselves, their officers,
agents, and servants to enter upon any land for the purpose of making
examination or supervise in the performance of their duties under this article,
without liability therefor; and the Village Board shall have the power to
purchase and acquire for the village all real and personal property which may
be necessary for construction of the water system, or for any repair,
remodeling, or additions thereof.
   (c)   Condemnation of real estate. Whenever any real estate or any easement
therein, or use thereof, shall in the judgment of the Village Board be
necessary to the water system; and whenever, for any cause, an agreement for
the purchase thereof, cannot be made with the owner thereof, the Village Board
shall proceed with all necessary steps to take such real estate easement, or
use by condemnation in accordance with the state statutes, and the Uniform
Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Police Act of 1970, being 42 U.S.C. §§
4651 et seq., if federal funds are used.
   (d)   Title to real estate and personalty. All property, real, personal, and
mixed, acquired for the construction of the water system, and all plans,
specifications, diagrams, papers, books, and records connected therewith said
water system, and all building, machinery, and fixtures pertaining thereto,
shall be the property of the said village.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-21)
§ 9-1-22 USER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Regulations a contract. The rules, regulations, and water rates
hereinafter set forth shall be considered a part of the contract with every
person, company, or corporation who is connected with the water system, and
every such person, company, or corporation by connection with the water system
shall be considered as expressing his or her or their assent to be bound
thereby. Whenever any of said rules and regulations, or such others as the said
village may hereafter adopt are violated, the service shall be shut off from
the building or place of such violation (even though two or more parties are
receiving service through the same connection) and shall not be re-established
except by order of the Village Board, and on payment of all arrears, the
expenses and established charges of shutting off and putting on, and such other
terms as the Village Board may determine and a satisfactory, understanding with
the party that no further cause for complaint shall arise. In case of such
violation, the said village furthermore may declare any payment made for the
service by the party or parties committing such violation to be forfeited, and
the same shall thereupon be forfeited. The right is reserved to the Village
Board to change the said rules, regulations, and water rates from time to time,
as they may deem advisable; and to make special rates and contracts in all
proper cases, all subject to the authority of the State Public Service
Commission whose finding of fact, certification, and order are hereby adopted
by the village as applicable to the Water Utility Department.
   (b)   Mandatory connection.
      (1)   a.   The owner of each parcel of land adjacent to a water main on
which there exists a building usable for human habitation or in a block through
which such system is extended, shall connect to such system within 60 days’
notice in writing from the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate. Upon failure to do so, the village may cause
connection to be made and bill the property owner for such costs.
         b.   If such costs are not paid within 30 days, such notice shall be
assessed as a special tax lien against the property, all pursuant to Wis.
Stats. § 281.45; provided, however, that the owner may within 30 days after
completion of the work file a written option with the Village Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, stating that he or she
cannot pay such amount in one sum and ask that they be levied in not to exceed
five equal installments and that the amount shall be so collected with interest
at the rate of 18% per annum from the completion of the work, the unpaid
balance being a special tax lien, all pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 144.06.
      (2)   a.   In lieu of the above, the village at its option may impose a
penalty for the period the violation continues, after ten days’ written notice
to any owner failing to make a connection to the water system in an amount of
$100 per month for each residential unit equivalent for the period in which the
failure to connect continues, and upon failure to make such payment, said
charge shall be assessed as a special tax lien against the property, all
pursuant to Wis. Stats. §144.06.
         b.   This section ordains that the failure to connect to the water
system is contrary to the minimum health standards of said village and fails to
assure preservation of public health, comfort, and safety of said village.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-22)
§ 9-1-23 ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE.
   (a)   Service application. Application for water service shall be made in
writing on a form furnished by the water utility. The application will contain
the legal description of the property to be served, name of the owner, the
exact use to be made of the service, and the size of the supply pipe and meter
desired. (Note particularly any special refrigeration and/or air-conditioning
water-consuming appliances.)
   (b)   Conditions of service. Service will be furnished only if:
      (1)   The premises have a frontage on a properly platted street or public
strip in which a cast iron or other long-life water main has been laid, or
where property owner has agreed to and complied with the provisions of the
utility’s filed main extension rule;
      (2)   The premises have adequate piping beyond metering point; and
      (3)   The property owner has installed or agrees to install a service
pipe from the curb line to the point of use. All water lines on private
property, whether underground or within a structure, will be installed in
accordance with Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter SPS 382, “Design, Construction,
Installation, Supervision and Inspection of Plumbing;” specifically, Wis.
Admin. Code, § H 82.13, “Water Distribution Systems.” This requirement also
includes multi-unit dwellings.
   (c)   Inspections.
      (1)   The building’s water line shall be inspected upon completion of
placement of the pipe and before backfilling, and tested before or after
backfilling.
      (2)   The owner of a multi-unit dwelling has the option of being served
by individual metered water service to each unit. The owner, by selecting this
option, is required to provide interior plumbing and meter settings to enable
individual metered service to each unit and individual disconnection without
affecting service to the other units. Each meter and meter connection will be a
separate water utility customer for the purpose of the filed rules and
regulations.
      (3)   No division of the water service of any lot or parcel of land shall
be made for the extension and independent meterage of the supply to an
adjoining lot or parcel of land. No division of a water supply service shall be
made at the curb for separate supplies therefrom for two or more separate
premises having frontage on any street or public service strip whether owned by
the same or different parties.
   (d)   Withholding approval. The Utility is hereby empowered to withhold
approval of any application wherein full information of the purpose of such
supply is not clearly indicated and set forth by the applicant property owner.
   (e)   Maintenance of services. All water services within the limits of the
village from the street main to the property line, and including all controls
between the same will be maintained by the Water Utility Department without
expenses to the property owner, except when they are damaged as a result of
negligence or carelessness on the part of the property owner, a tenant, or an
agent of the owner, in which case they will be repaired at the expense of the
property owner. All water services from the point of maintenance by the Utility
to and throughout the premises must be maintained free of defective conditions,
by and at the expense of the owner or occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-23)
§ 9-1-24 SERVICE CONTRACT.
   (a)   The minimum service contract period shall be one year unless otherwise
specified by special contract or in the applicable rate schedule. Where the
Utility service has been disconnected at the customer’s request prior to
expiration of his or her minimum contract period, a reconnection charge shall
be made, payable in advance, when the customer requests reconnection of
service. (See Schedule R-1 for applicable rate.) The minimum contract period is
renewed with each reconnection.
   (b)   A reconnection charge shall also be required from consumers whose
services are disconnected (shut off at curb stop) because of nonpayment of
bills when due (not including disconnection for failure to comply with deposit
or guarantee rules). (See Schedule R-1 for applicable rate in §
9-1-11.)
   (c)   A consumer shall be considered as the same consumer provided the
reconnection is requested for the same location by any member of the same
family, or if a place of business, by any partner or employee of the same
business.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-24)
§ 9-1-25 TEMPORARY METERED SUPPLY, METER, AND DEPOSITS.
   (a)   Deposit; charges. An applicant for temporary water supply on a metered
basis shall make and maintain a monetary deposit for each meter, installed as
security for payment for use of water and for such other charges which may
arise from the use of the supply. A charge shall be made for setting the valve,
and furnishing and setting the meter. (See Schedule D-1 for applicable rate in
§
9-1-12.)
   (b)   Plumbers.
      (1)   State license required. No plumber, pipe fitter, or other person
will be permitted to do any plumbing or pipe fitting work in connection with
the water system without first receiving a license from the state.
      (2)   Tap permits. After water connections have been introduced into any
building or upon any premises, no plumber shall make any alterations,
extensions, or attachments, unless the party ordering such tapping or other
work shall exhibit the proper permit for the same from the Village
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-25)
§ 9-1-26 WATER FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   When water is requested for construction purposes, or for filling
tanks or other such uses, an application therefor shall be made to the Utility,
in writing, upon application provided for that purpose in the Water Utility
Department office, giving a statement of the amount of construction work to be
done, or the size of the tank to be filled, and the like. Payment for the water
for construction shall be made in advance at the scheduled rates. The service
pipe must be installed inside the building from where the water must be drawn.
No connection with the service pipe at the curb shall be made without special
permission from the Utility.
   (b)   In no case will any employee of the utility turn on water for
construction work unless the contractor first presents a permit. Upon
completion of the construction work, the contractor must return the original
permit to the Utility, together with a statement of the actual amount of
construction work performed.
   (c)   Consumers shall not allow contractors, masons, or other persons to
take water from their premises without first showing a permit from the
Department. Any consumer failing to comply with this provision will have water
service discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-26)
§ 9-1-27 USE OF HYDRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION; TEMPORARY SUPPLY.
   (a)   In cases where no other supply is available, permission may be granted
by the superintendent to use a hydrant. No hydrant shall be used until it is
equipped with a sprinkling valve. In no case shall any valve be moved except by
a member of the Water Utility Department.
   (b)   Before a valve is set, payment must be made for its setting and for
the water to be used at the scheduled rates. (See Schedule H-1 for applicable
deposits and charges in §
9-1-13.) Upon completing use of the hydrant, the customer must notify the
utility to that effect.
   (c)   In the use of a hydrant supply, the hydrant valve will be set at the
proper opening by the Utility when the sprinkling valve is set, and the flow of
water must be regulated by means of the sprinkling valve. If the water is to be
used through iron pipe connections, all such pipe installations shall have the
swing joint to facilitate quick disconnection from the fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-27)
§ 9-1-28 OPERATION OF VALVES AND HYDRANTS; UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall, without authority of the Utility, allow contractors,
masons, or other unauthorized persons to take water from their premises,
operate any valve connected with the street or supply mains, or open any fire
hydrant connected with the distribution system, except for the purpose of
extinguishing fire, or who shall wantonly damage or impair the same shall be
subject to a fine as provided by municipal ordinances. Permits for the use of
hydrants apply only to such hydrants as are designated for the specific use.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-28)
§ 9-1-29 REFUNDS OF MONETARY DEPOSITS.
   All monies deposited as security for payment of charges arising from the use
of temporary water supply on a metered basis, or for the return of a sprinkling
valve wheel or reducer, if the water is used on an unmetered basis, will be
refunded to the depositor on the termination of the use of water, the payment
of all charges levied against the depositor, and the return of the wheel and
reducer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-29)
§ 9-1-30 SERVICE CONNECTIONS (OR WATER LATERALS).
   (a)   No water service shall be laid through any trench having cinders,
rubbish, rock, or gravel fill, or any other material which may cause injury to
or disintegration of the service pipe, unless adequate means of protection are
provided by sand filling or such other insulation as may be approved by the
Utility. Service pipes passing through curb or retaining walls shall be
adequately safeguarded by provision of a channel space or pipe casing, not less
than twice the diameter of the service connection. The space between the
service pipe and channel or pipe casing shall be filled and lightly caulked
with an oakum, mastic cement, or other resilient material, and made impervious
to moisture.
   (b)   In backfilling the pipe trench, the service pipe must be protected
against injury by carefully hand tamping the ground filling, free from hard
lumps, rocks, stones, or other injurious material, around and at least six
inches over the pipe.
   (c)   All water supplies shall be of undiminished size from the street main
in to the point of meter placement. Beyond the meter outlet valve the piping
shall be sized and proportioned to provide, on all floors, at all times, an
equitable distribution of water supply for the greatest probable number of
fixtures or appliances operating simultaneously.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-30)
§ 9-1-31 SERVICE PIPING FOR METER SETTINGS.
   (a)   In cases where a new customer whose service is to be metered installs
the original service piping or where an existing metered customer changes his
or her service piping for his or her own convenience, or where an existing flat
rate customer requests to be metered, the customer shall, at his or her
expense, provide a suitable location and the proper connections for the meter.
The Water Utility Department should be consulted as to the type and size of
meter setting. Where it is possible to set meters in the basement, or other
suitable place within the building, a short nipple shall be inserted after the
stop and waste cock, then a union, and then another nipple and coupling of the
proper length. The nipple attached to the union and coupling shall be cut to a
standard length provided by the plans of the Utility (it may require a
horizontal run of 18 inches in such pipe line) which may later be removed for
the insertion of the meter into the supply line.
   (b)   No permit will be given to change from metered to flat rate service.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-31)
§ 9-1-32 TURNING ON WATER.
   The water cannot be turned on for a consumer except by a duly authorized
employee of the utility. When a plumber has completed a job, he or she must
leave the water turned off. This does not prevent the plumber from testing the
work.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-32)
§ 9-1-33 FAILURE TO READ METERS.
   Where the utility is unable to read a meter after two successive attempts,
the fact will be plainly indicated on the bill, and either an estimated bill
will be computed, or the minimum charge applied. The difference shall be
adjusted when the meter is again read, that is, the bill for the succeeding
quarter will be computed with the gallons or cubic feet in each block of the
rate schedule doubled and credit will be given on that bill for the amount of
the minimum bill paid the preceding month. Only in unusual cases or where
approval is obtained from the customer shall more than two consecutive
estimated bills be rendered. If the meter is damaged (see §
9-1-44) or fails to operate, the bill will be based on the average use during
the past year unless there is some reason why the use is not normal. If the
average use cannot be properly employed, the bill will be estimated by some
equitable method.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-33)
§ 9-1-34 COMPLAINT METER TESTS.
   See Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter PSC 185.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-34)
§ 9-1-35 THAWING FROZEN SERVICES.
   See Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter PSC 185.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-35)
§ 9-1-36 STOP BOXES.
   (a)   The consumer shall protect the stop box in the terrace and shall keep
the same free from dirt and other obstructions.
   (b)   The Utility shall not be liable for failure to locate the stop box and
shut off the water in case of a leak on the consumer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-36)
§ 9-1-37 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   (a)   Meters will be furnished and placed by the Utility, and are not to be
disconnected or tampered with by the consumer. It shall be the duty of the
owner of any premises to provide a location for a water meter, and to maintain
such locations and passageway thereto, clean and sanitary, and free from any
obstruction or any conditions of a hazardous nature.
   (b)   No connection for water meters shall be installed in any location not
easily accessible, or which is or may be unclean, unsanitary, or in any manner
unsafe to utility employees in the discharge of their duties.
   (c)   All meters shall be so located that they shall be protected from
obstructions and permit ready access thereto for reading, inspection, and
servicing, such location to be designated or approved by the Utility.
   (d)   All piping within the building must be supplied by the consumer. Where
additional meters are desired by the consumer, he or she shall pay for all
piping and an additional amount sufficient to cover the cost of maintenance and
depreciation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-37)
§ 9-1-38 REPAIRS TO METERS.
   (a)   Meters will be repaired by the Water Utility Department and the cost
of such repairs caused by ordinary wear and tear will be borne by the Utility.
   (b)   Repair of any damage to a meter resulting from the carelessness of the
owner of the premises, his or her agent, or tenant, or from the negligence of
any one of them to properly secure and protect same, including any damage that
may result from allowing a water meter to become frozen or to be injured from
the presence of hot water or steam in the meter, shall be paid for by the
consumer or the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-38)
§ 9-1-39 REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR OF SERVICE PIPE.
   (a)   Where the property owner requests that a larger service lateral be
installed to replace an existing smaller diameter pipe, an allowance of $15
will be made as a deduction in the cost, providing the new service is to be
installed in the same ditch as the existing service pipe.
   (b)   The service pipe from the main to and through the curb stop will be
maintained and kept in repair and when worn out, replaced at the expense of the
Utility. The property owner shall maintain the service pipe from the curb stop
to the point of use.
   (c)   If a consumer fails to repair a leaking or broken service pipe from
curb to point of metering or use within such time as may appear reasonable to
the Utility after notification has been served on the consumer by the Utility,
the water will be shut off and will not be turned on again until the repairs
have been completed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-39)
§ 9-1-40 CHARGES FOR WATER WASTED DUE TO LEAKS.
   See Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter PSC 185.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-40)
§ 9-1-41 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (a)   Right of inspection.
      (1)   During reasonable hours any officer or authorized employee of the
Utility shall have the right of access to the premises supplied with service,
for the purpose of inspection or for the enforcement of the Utility’s rules and
regulations.
      (2)   Users must, at all times, frankly and without concealment, answer
all questions put to them relative to utility use. Whenever appropriate, the
Utility will make a systematic inspection of all unmetered water taps for the
purpose of checking waste and unnecessary use of water.
   (b)   Utility responsibility.
      (1)   It is expressly stipulated that no claim shall be made against said
village, its employees, duly authorized agents, by reason of the breaking,
clogging, stoppage, or freezing of any service pipe; nor from any damage
arising from repairing mains, making connections or extensions, or any other
work that may be deemed necessary.
      (2)   The right is hereby reserved to cut off the service at any time for
the purpose of repairs, or any other necessary purpose, any permit granted or
regulation to the contrary notwithstanding.
      (3)   Whenever it shall become necessary to shut off the water service
within any district of the said village, the village shall, if practicable,
give notice to each and every consumer within said village of the time when
such service will be so shut off.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-41)
§ 9-1-42 CUSTOMER’S DEPOSITS.
   See Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter PSC 185.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-42)
§ 9-1-43 DISCONNECTION AND REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   (a)   Disconnection. See Wis. Admin. Code Chapter PSC 185.
   (b)   Disconnection notice. The form of disconnection notice to be used is
as follows:
DISCONNECTION NOTICE
 
Dear Customer:
The bill enclosed with this notice includes your current charge for utility
service and your previous unpaid balance.
You have 10 days to pay the utility service arrears or your service is subject to
disconnection.
If you fail to pay the service arrears, or fail to contact us within the 10 days
allowed to make reasonable time payment arrangements, we will proceed with
disconnection action.
To avoid the inconvenience of service interruption and an additional charge of
(amount) reconnection, we urge you to pay the full arrears IMMEDIATELY AT ONE OF
OUR OFFICES.
If you have entered into a Deferred Payment Agreement with us and have failed to
make the time payment you agreed to, your service will be subject to disconnection
unless you pay the amount due within 10 days.
If you have a reason for delaying the payment, call us and explain the situation.
 
Please call this telephone number [715-986-2241] immediately if:
1.   You have a question about your utility service arrears.
2.   You are unable to pay the full amount of the bill and are willing to enter
into a time payment agreement with us.
3.   There are any circumstances you think should be taken into consideration
before service is discontinued.
4.   Any resident is seriously ill.
 
Illness Provision
If there is an existing medical emergency in your home and you furnish the Utility
with a statement signed by either a licensed Wisconsin physician, or a public
health official, we will delay disconnection of service up to 21 days. The
statement must identify the medical emergency and specify the period of time
during which disconnection will aggravate the existing emergency.
Deferred Payment Agreements
If, for some reason, you are unable to pay the full amount of the utility service
arrears on your bill, you may contact the Utility to discuss arrangements to pay
the arrears over an extended period of time.
This time payment agreement will require:
1.   Payment of a reasonable amount at the time the agreement is made.
2.   Payment of the remainder of the outstanding balance in monthly installments
over a reasonable length of time.
3.   Payment of all future utility service bills in full by the due date.
In any situation where you are unable to resolve billing disputes or disputes
about the grounds for proposed disconnection through contacts with our utility,
you may make an appeal to the Wisconsin Public Service Commission, Madison,
Wisconsin.
 
(UTILITY NAME)
 
   (c)   Placement of bills on the tax roll. In the event the utility is not
able to collect any bill for water service even though deposit and guarantee
rules are on file, the bill may be put upon the tax roll, as provided in Wis.
Stats. § 66.0809.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-43)
§ 9-1-44 SURREPTITIOUS USE OF WATER.
   (a)   When the Utility has reasonable evidence that a consumer is obtaining
his or her supply of water, in whole or in part, by means of devices or methods
used to stop or interfere with the proper metering of the Utility service being
delivered to his or her equipment, the Utility reserves the right to estimate
and present immediately a bill for service unmetered as a result of such
interference, and such bill shall be payable subject to a 24-hour disconnection
of service. When the Utility shall have disconnected the consumer for any such
reason, the Utility will reconnect the consumer upon the following conditions.
      (1)   The consumer will be required to deposit with the Utility an amount
sufficient to guarantee the payment of the consumer’s bills for utility service
to the Utility.
      (2)   The consumer will be required to pay the Utility for any and all
damages to its equipment on the consumer’s premises due to such stoppage or
interference with its metering.
      (3)   The consumer must further agree to comply with reasonable
requirements to protect the Utility against further losses.
   (b)   Wis. Stats. §§ 98.26 and 943.20, as relating to water service, are
hereby adopted and made a part of these rules.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-44)
§ 9-1-45 VACATION OF PREMISES.
   When premises are to be vacated, the Utility shall be notified in writing at
once, so that it may remove the meter and shut off the supply at the curb cock.
The owner of the premises shall be liable to prosecution for any damage to the
property of the Water Utility Department by reason of failure to notify the
utility of vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-45)
§ 9-1-46 REPAIRS TO MAINS.
   The Utility reserves the right to shut off the water in the mains
temporarily to make repairs, alterations, or additions to the plant or system.
When the circumstances will permit of sufficient delay, the company will give
notification, by newspaper publication or otherwise, of the discontinuance of
the supply. No rebate will be allowed to consumers for such temporary
suspension of supply.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-46)
§ 9-1-47 DUTY OF UTILITY WITH RESPECT TO SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC.
   It shall be the duty of the Utility to see that all open ditches for water
mains, hydrants, and service pipes are properly guarded to prevent accident to
any person or vehicle and at night there shall be displayed amber signal light
in such manner as will, so far as possible, ensure the safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-47)
§ 9-1-48 HANDLING WATER MAINS AND SERVICE PIPERS IN SEWER OR OTHER TRENCHES.
   (a)   Contractors must ascertain for themselves the existence and location
of all service pipes. Where they are removed, cut, or damaged in the
construction of a sewer, the contractor must at his or her own expense cause
them to be replaced or repaired at once. He or she must not shut off the water
service pipes from any consumer for a period exceeding six hours.
   (b)   In making excavations in streets or highways for laying service pipe
or making repairs, the paving and earth removed must be deposited in a manner
that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public. Trenches in unpaved
streets shall be refilled with layers of earth not more than nine inches in
depth, and each layer thoroughly compacted to prevent settling. This work,
together with the replacing of sidewalks, ballast, and paving, must be done so
as to make the street as good, at least, as before it was disturbed, and
satisfactory to the village. No opening of the streets for tapping the pipes
will be permitted when the ground is frozen.
   (c)   (1)   No persons, except those having special permission from the
village, or persons in their service and approved by them, will be permitted
under any circumstances to tap the water mains or distribution pipes. The kind
and size of the connection with the pipe shall be that specified in the permit
or order from said village employee or agent duly authorized by the village.
      (2)   Pipes should be tapped on the top half of the pipe, and not within
six inches (15 centimeters) of the joint, or within 24 inches (60 centimeters)
of another connection.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully pollute or otherwise
injure any water supplied by the water system and a penalty shall be assessed
of $100.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-48)
§ 9-1-49 PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   (a)   Protective devices in general. The owner or occupant of every premise
receiving water supply shall apply and maintain suitable means of protection of
the premise supply, and all appliances thereof, against damage arising in any
manner from the use of the water supply, variation of water pressure, or any
interruption of water supply. Particularly, such owner or occupant must protect
water-cooled compressors for refrigeration systems by means of high pressure
safety cutout devices. There shall likewise be provided means for the
prevention of the transmission of water ram or noise of operation of any valve
or appliance through the piping of their own or adjacent premises.
   (b)   Relief valves. On all “closed systems” (for example, systems having a
check valve, pressure regulator, or reducing valve, water filter, or softener)
an effective pressure relief valve shall be installed either in the top tapping
or the upper side tapping of the hot water tank, or on the hot water
distributing pipe connection at the tank. A one-half inch drain pipe shall be
connected to the relief valve for discharge on the floor or into a sink or open
drain through an air gap. No stop valve shall be placed between the hot water
tank and the relief valve or on the drain pipe. (See applicable village
plumbing codes.)
   (c)   Air chambers. An air chamber or approved shock absorber shall be
installed at the terminus of each riser, fixture branch, or hydraulic elevator
main for the prevention of undue water hammer. The air chamber shall have a
diameter not less than that of the pipe it serves and a length not less than 15
diameters of said supply pipe. Where possible, the air chamber should be
provided at its base with a valve and rain cock for water drainage and
replenishment of air.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-49)
§ 9-1-50 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (a)   Definition of cross-connection. A CROSS-CONNECTION is defined as any
physical connection or arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one
of which contains potable water from the village’s public water system, and the
other of which contains water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, with the direction of flow depending on the
pressure differential between the two systems.
   (b)   Unprotected cross-connections prohibited. No person, firm, or
corporation may establish or maintain, or permit to be established or
maintained, any unprotected cross-connection. Cross-connections shall be
protected as required in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter SPS 382.
   (c)   Inspection. The Water Utility Department may inspect, or arrange for
an inspection of, property served by the public water system for cross-
connections. The frequency of inspections shall be established by the Water
Utility Department in accordance with the Administrative Code. Any unprotected
cross-connections identified by the inspection shall be promptly corrected.
Failure to promptly correct an unprotected cross-connection shall be sufficient
cause for the Water Utility Department to discontinue water service to the
property, as provided under subsection (f) below.
   (d)   Right of entry. Upon presentation of credentials, a representative of
the Water Utility Department shall have the right to request entry, at any
reasonable time, to a property served by a connection to the public water
system for the purpose of inspecting the property for cross-connections.
Refusing entry to such Utility representative shall be sufficient cause for the
Water Utility Department to discontinue water service to the property, as
provided under subsection (f) below. If entry is refused, a special inspection
warrant under Wis. Stats. § 66.0119, may be obtained.
   (e)   Provision of requested information. The Water Utility Department may
request an owner, lessee, or occupant of property served by a connection to the
public water system to furnish the Water Utility Department with pertinent
information regarding the piping systems on the property. Refusing to provide
requested information shall be sufficient cause for the Water Utility
Department to discontinue water service to the property, as provided under
subsection (f) below.
   (f)   Discontinuation of water for violation. The Water Utility Department
may discontinue water service to any property wherein any unprotected
connection in violation of this section exists, and take other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water system. Water service may be discontinued, however, only after
reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing under Wis. Stats. Chapter 68,
except as provided in subsection (g) below. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until the unprotected cross-connection has been
eliminated.
   (g)   Emergency discontinuance. If it is determined by the Water Utility
Department that an unprotected cross-connection or emergency endangers public
health, safety, or welfare, and requires immediate action, and if a written
finding to that effect is filed with the Village Clerk and delivered to the
customer’s premises, water service may be immediately discontinued. The
customer shall have an opportunity for hearing under Wis. Stats. Chapter 68,
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance. Water service to such
property shall not be restored until the unprotected cross-connection has been
eliminated.
   (h)   State code adopted. The village adopts by reference the State Plumbing
Code of the state being Chapter SPS 382, Wis. Adm. Code.
   (i)   Section not to supersede other ordinances. This section does not
supersede the State Plumbing Code and any village plumbing ordinances, but is
supplementary to them.
   (j)   Damage recovery. The Utility shall have the right of recovery from all
persons any expense incurred by said Utility for the repair or replacement of
any water pipe, curb stop, gate valve, hydrant, or valve box damaged in any
manner by any person by the performance of any work under his or her control,
or by any negligent act. Owners or operators of motor vehicles will be held
liable for the cost of repair of any hydrant damaged by them, and the Utility
will not be responsible for the damage from the motor vehicle by reason of such
accident.
   (k)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section, or rules or regulations of the village; or who shall connect a service
pipe without first having obtained a permit therefor; or who shall violate any
provisions of the state statutes, Wisconsin Administrative Code, or any other
materials which are incorporated by reference, shall upon conviction thereof
forfeit not less than $10 nor more than $200 and the costs of persecution.
This, however, shall not bar the village from enforcing the connection duties
set out previously in this section pertaining to mandatory connection.
(Ord.
9-1-50, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 9-1-51 PRIVATE WELL ABANDONMENT.
   (a)   Purpose. To protect public health, safety, and welfare and to prevent
contamination of water supplies by assuring that unused, unsafe, or
noncomplying wells or wells which may act as conduits for contamination of
groundwater or wells which may be illegally cross-connected to the municipal
water system, are properly maintained or properly filled and sealed.
   (b)   Applicability. This section applies to all wells located on premises
served by the village municipal water system. Communities outside the
jurisdiction of a supplying municipal system are also required by code,
contract agreement, or Utility rule to adopt and enforce equivalent ordinances
within their jurisdictions for purpose stated in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      COMMUNITIES SERVED. Any jurisdiction having customers supplied by a
municipal water system as retail or wholesale customers, including those
outside the jurisdiction of the supplying system.
      MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM. A community water system owned by a city,
village, county, town, town sanitary district, utility district, public inland
lake and rehabilitation district, municipal water district or a federal, state,
county, or municipal owned institution for congregate care or correction, or a
privately owned water utility serving the foregoing.
      NONCOMPLYING. A well or pump installation which does not comply with Wis.
Admin. Code, Chapter 845, Standards for Existing Installations, and which has
not been granted a variance pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter 845.
      PUMP INSTALLATION. The pump and related equipment used for withdrawing
water from a well, including the discharge piping, the underground connections,
pitless adapters, pressure tanks, pits, sampling faucets, and well seals or
caps.
      SERVED BY. Any property having a water supply pipe extending onto it
which is connected to the municipal water system.
      UNSAFE WELL OR PUMP INSTALLATION. One which produces water which is
bacteriologically contaminated or contaminated with other substances exceeding
the drinking water standards of Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters NR 140 or 809 or for
which a Health Advisory has been issued by the Department of Natural Resources.
      UNUSED WELL. One which does not have a functional pumping system or other
complying means of withdrawing water.
      WELL. A drillhole or other excavation or opening deeper than it is wide
that extends more than ten feet below the ground surface constructed for the
purpose of obtaining groundwater.
      WELL ABANDONMENT. The proper filling and sealing or decommissioning of a
well according to the provisions of Wis. Admin. Code, NR 845.01.
   (d)   Well abandonment required. All wells on premises served by the
municipal water system shall be properly filled and sealed in accordance with
subsection (f) below by October 1 or not later than 90 days from the date of
connection to the municipal water system, or discovery or construction of a
well, unless a valid well operation permit has been issued to the well owner by
the village under terms of subsection (e) below.
   (e)   Well operation permit. Owners of wells on premises served by the
municipal water system shall make application for a well operation permit for
each well no later than 90 days after connection to the municipal water system,
or date of discovery or construction of a well. The village shall grant a
permit to a well owner to operate a well for a period not to exceed five years
providing all conditions of this section are met. A well operation permit may
be renewed by submitting an application verifying that the conditions of this
section are met. The village, or its agent, may conduct inspections and water
quality tests or require inspections and water quality tests to be conducted at
the applicant’s expense to obtain or verify information necessary for
consideration of a permit application or renewal. Permit applications and
renewals shall be made on forms provided by the Clerk. All initial and renewal
applications must be accompanied by a fee of $50. The following conditions must
be met for issuance or renewal of a well operation permit.
      (1)   The well and pump installation shall comply with the Standards for
Existing Installations described in Wis. Admin. Code, § SNR 812.42, or repaired
to comply with current standards. Compliance shall be verified by inspection
for initial issuance of a permit and every ten years thereafter. Inspections
shall be conducted by a state licensed well driller or pump installer, and
documented on inspection report form DNR #3300-221, to be submitted to the
Clerk.
      (2)   a.   The well and pump shall have a history of producing safe water
evidenced by a certified lab report for at least one coliform bacteria sample
collected within prior 30 days, and submitted to the Clerk.
         b.   In areas where the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) has
determined that groundwater aquifers are contaminated with substances other
than bacteria, additional chemical tests may be required to document the safety
of the water.
      (3)   There shall be no cross-connections or interconnection between the
well’s pump installation or distribution piping and the municipal water system
unless approved by the utility and DNR.
      (4)   The water from the private well shall not discharge into a drain
leading directly to a public sewer utility unless properly metered and
authorized by the sewer utility.
      (5)   The private well shall have a functional pumping system or other
complying means of withdrawing water.
      (6)   The proposed use of the private well shall be justified as
reasonable in addition to water provided by the municipal water system.
   (f)   Well filling-and-sealing procedures.
      (1)   All wells abandoned under the jurisdiction of this ordinance shall
be filled and sealed according to the procedures of Wis. Admin. Code, § SNR
812.26.
      (2)   All well filling and sealing under jurisdiction of this ordinance
shall be performed by, or under the supervision of, a Certified Water System
Operator employed by the village, or by a state-licensed well driller or pump
installer, per Wis. Stats. § 280.30.
      (3)   The owner of the well, or the owner’s agent, may be required to
obtain a well abandonment permit prior to any well abandonment, and shall
notify the Clerk at least 48 hours in advance of any well abandonment
activities. The abandonment of the well may be observed or verified by
personnel of the municipal system.
      (4)   A well filling and sealing report form DNR#3300-005, supplied by
the Department of Natural Resources, shall be submitted by the well owner to
the Clerk and to the Department of Natural Resources within 30 days of the
completion of the well abandonment.
   (g)   Penalties. Any well owner violating any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punished by forfeiture pursuant to §
1-1-6 and the cost of prosecution. Each day of violation is a separate offense.
If any person fails to comply with this section for more than 30 days after
receiving written notice of the violation, the municipality may impose a
penalty and cause the well abandonment to be performed, and the expense to be
assessed as a special tax against the property.
(Ord. 9-1-51, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 9-1-52 MISCELLANEOUS RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Charges are a lien on property. All water services, charges, and
special assessments shall be a lien on a lot, part of a lot, or land on which
water services were supplied. All sums which have accrued during the preceding
year, and which are unpaid by the first day of October of any year, shall be
certified to the Village Clerk to be placed on the tax roll for collection as
provided by Wis. Stats. § 66.0809.
   (b)   Adoption of other rules. There is hereby adopted all the rules and
regulations of the State Plumbing Codes and State Building Codes, and the
building rules of the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Natural
Resources of the state, insofar as the same are applicable to the village.
   (c)   Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of the chapter is, for any reason, held to be invalid, such decisions shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of the chapter. The village
hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and any section,
subsection, clause, and phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, and phrases be declared
unconstitutional. This amended and revised chapter shall take effect upon its
passage by the Village Board after a public hearing and publication of
availability for inspection, and shall replace and supercede any and all other
previous ordinances. All ordinances or part of ordinances and resolutions in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-52)
§ 9-1-50.5 WELLHEAD PROTECTION.
   (a)   Title of section. This section shall be known, cited, and referred to
as the “Wellhead Protection Ordinance” (hereinafter referred to as “WHP
Ordinance” or “this section”).
   (b)   Purpose, authority, and application.
      (1)   Residents in the village depend exclusively on groundwater for a
safe drinking water supply. Certain land use practices and activities can
seriously threaten or degrade groundwater quality. The purpose of this WHP
Ordinance is to institute land use regulations and restrictions to protect the
village’s municipal water supply and well fields, and to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the residents of the village.
      (2)   Statutory authority of the village to enact these regulations was
established by the state legislature in Wis. Stats. § 61.35. Under these
statutes, the village has the authority to enact this section, effective in the
incorporated areas of the village, to encourage the protection of groundwater
resources.
      (3)   The regulations specified in this WHP Ordinance shall apply within
the village’s corporate limits.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      AQUIFER. A saturated, permeable, geologic formation that contains, and
will yield, significant quantities of water.
      EXISTING FACILITIES. Current facilities, practices, and activities which
may cause or threaten to cause environmental pollution within that portion of
the village’s wellhead protection area that lies within the corporate limits of
the village. EXISTING FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, the type
listed in the Department of Natural Resources’ form 3300-215, Public Water
Supply Potential Contaminant Use Inventory form, attached hereto as Exhibit “A”
which is incorporated by reference herein as if fully set forth.
      GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT. The portion of the recharge area
for the village wells that lies within the village limits as shown in the map
attached hereto as Exhibit “B” and incorporated herein as if fully set forth.
      RECHARGE AREA. The land area which contributes water to a well by
infiltration of water into the subsurface and movement with groundwater toward
the well. This area extends beyond the corporate limits of the village.
      WELL FIELD. A piece of land used primarily for the purpose of supplying a
location for construction of wells to supply a municipal water system.
   (d)   Groundwater protection overlay district.
      (1)   Separation distances. The following minimum separation distances
shall be maintained within the Groundwater Protection Overlay District, as
specified in Wis. Admin. Code, § SNR 811.12(5)(d) shall be maintained under the
management plan:
         a.   Ten feet between a well and an emergency or standby power system
that is operated by the same facility which operates the well, and that has a
double wall above ground storage tank with continuous electronic interstitial
leakage monitoring;
         b.   Fifty feet between a well and a storm sewer main or a sanitary
sewer main where the sanitary sewer main is constructed of water main class
materials and joints;
         c.   Two hundred feet between a well and any sanitary sewer main not
constructed of water main class materials, sanitary sewer manhole, lift
station, one- or two-family residential heating fuel oil underground storage
tank or above ground storage tank, or POWTS treatment tank or holding tank
component and associated piping;
         d.   Three hundred feet between a well and any farm underground
storage tank system or other underground storage tank system with double wall
and with electronic interstitial monitoring for the system, which means the
tank and any piping connected to it, These installations shall meet the most
restrictive installation requirements of Wis. Admin. Code, § SPS 310.260 and
receive written approval from the Department of Safety and Professional
Services, or its designated local program operator, under Wis. Admin. Code, §
SPS 310.110. These requirements apply to tanks containing gasoline, diesel,
bio-diesel, ethanol, other alternative fuel, fuel oil, petroleum product, motor
fuel, burner fuel, lubricant, waste oil, or hazardous substances;
         e.   Three hundred feet between a well and any farm above ground
storage tank with double wall, or single wall tank with other secondary
containment and under a canopy; other above ground storage tank system with
double wall, or single wall tank with secondary containment and under a canopy
and with electronic interstitial monitoring for a double wall tank or
electronic leakage monitoring for a single wall tank secondary containment
structure. These installations shall meet the most restrictive installation
requirements of Wis. Admin. Code, § SPS 310.260 and receive written approval
from the Department of Safety and Professional Services, or its designated
local program operator under Wis. Admin. Code, § SPS 310.110. These
requirements apply to tanks containing gasoline, diesel, bio-diesel, ethanol,
other alternative fuel, fuel oil, petroleum product, motor fuel, burner fuel,
lubricant, waste oil, or hazardous substances;
         f.   Four hundred feet between a well and a septic tank or soil
adsorption unit with a design capacity of less than 12,000 gallons per day, a
cemetery or a stormwater retention, or detention, pond;
         g.   Six hundred feet between a well and any farm underground storage
tank system or other underground storage tank system with double wall and with
electronic interstitial monitoring for the system, which means the tank and any
piping connected to it; any farm above ground storage tank with double wall, or
single wall tank with other secondary containment and under a canopy or other
above ground storage tank system with double wall, or single wall tank with
secondary containment and under a canopy; and with electronic interstitial
monitoring for a double wall tank or electronic leakage monitoring for a single
wall tank secondary containment structure. These installations shall meet the
standard double wall tank or single wall tank secondary containment
installation requirements of Wis. Admin. Code, § SPS 310.260 and receive
written approval from the Department of Safety and Professional Services, or
its designated local program operator, under Wis. Admin. Code, § SPS 310.110.
These requirements apply to tanks containing gasoline, diesel, bio-diesel,
ethanol, other alternative fuel, fuel oil, petroleum product, motor fuel,
burner fuel, lubricant, waste oil, or hazardous substances;
         h.   One thousand feet between a well and land application of
municipal, commercial, or industrial waste; the boundaries of a land spreading
facility for spreading of petroleum-contaminated soil regulated under Wis.
Admin. Code, Chapter NR 718 while that facility is in operation; agricultural,
industrial, commercial, or municipal wastewater treatment plant treatment
units, lagoons, or storage structures; manure stacks or storage structures; or
POWTS dispersal component with a design capacity of 12,000 gallons per day or
more; and
         i.   One thousand two hundred feet between a well and any solid waste
storage, transportation, transfer, incineration, air curtain destructor,
processing, wood burning, one-time disposal or small demolition facility;
sanitary landfill; any property with residual groundwater contamination that
exceeds Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 140 enforcement standards; coal storage
area; salt or de-icing material storage area; any single wall farm underground
storage tank or single wall farm above ground storage tank, or other single
wall underground storage tank or above ground storage tank that has or has not
received written approval from the Department of Safety and Professional
Services, or its designated local program operator, under Wis. Admin. Code, §
SPS 310.110 for a single wall tank installation. These requirements apply to
tanks containing gasoline, diesel, bio-diesel, ethanol, other alternative fuel,
fuel oil, petroleum product, motor fuel, burner fuel, lubricant, waste oil, or
hazardous substances; and bulk pesticide or fertilizer handling or storage
facilities.
      (2)   The following uses are permitted uses within the groundwater
protection overlay district: uses not listed shall be considered prohibited
uses.
         a.   Parks, provided there is no on-site waste disposal or fuel
storage tank facilities associated with this use.
         b.   Playgrounds.
         c.   Wildlife areas.
         d.   Trails, such as bike, skiing, nature and fitness trails, and
motorized trails, provided loading and unloading areas are more than 400 feet
away.
         e.   Residential and commercial property, which is municipally
sewered, and free of flammable and combustible liquid and no underground
storage tanks are used.
      (3)   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by
this section are set forth on the attached Exhibit “B” which is incorporated
herein and hereby made a part of this section. Said map, together with
everything shown thereon and all amendments thereto, shall be as much a part of
this section as though fully set forth and described herein.
   (e)   Review of permit application.
      (1)   The Village Planning Committee shall review all requests for
approval of permits for land uses in the groundwater protection overlay
district. All determinations shall be made by the Village Planning Committee
within 60 days of any request for approval, provided however, that this 60-day
period of limitation may be extended by the Village Planning Committee for
“good cause,” as determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Village
Planning Committee.
      (2)   Upon reviewing all requests for approval, the Village Planning
Committee shall consider all of the following factors.
         a.   The village’s responsibility, as a public water supplier, to
protect and preserve the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens.
         b.   The degree to which the proposed land use practice, activity, or
facility may seriously threaten or degrade groundwater quality in the village
or the village’s wellhead protection area.
         c.   The economic hardship which may be faced by the landowner if the
application is denied.
         d.   The availability of alternative options to the applicant, and the
cost, effect, and extent of availability of such alternative options.
         e.   The proximity of the applicant’s property to other potential
sources of contamination.
         f.   The then existing condition of the village’s groundwater public
water wells and well fields, and the vulnerability to further contamination.
         g.   The direction of flow of groundwater and other factors in the
area of the applicant’s property which may affect the speed of the groundwater
flow, including topography, depth of soil, extent of aquifer, depth to water
table, and location of private wells.
         h.   Any other hydrogeological data or information which is available
from any public or private agency or organization.
         i.   The potential benefit, both economic and social, from the
approval of the applicant’s request for a permit.
      (3)   a.   Any exemptions granted will be made as a conditional use
permit, which will not transfer with the sale of the property. The exemption
may include environmental and/or safety monitoring which indicates whether the
facility may be emitting any releases or harmful contaminants to the
surrounding environment.
         b.   The facility will be held financially responsible for all
environmental cleanup costs. The Village Planning Committee may require that a
bond be posted for future monitoring and cleanup costs if deemed necessary at
the time of granting an exemption.
      (4)   The applicant shall be solely and exclusively responsible for any
and all costs associated with the application, including all of the following.
         a.   The cost of an environmental impact study if so required by the
village, or its designee.
         b.   The cost of groundwater monitoring or groundwater wells if
required by the village, or its designee.
         c.   The costs of an appraisal for the property or other property
evaluation expense if required by the village, or its designee.
         d.   The costs of village’s employee’s time associated in any way with
the application based on the hourly rate paid to the employee multiplied by a
factor, determined by the village, representing the village’s costs for
expenses, benefits, insurance, sick leave, holidays, overtime, vacation, and
other similar benefits.
         e.   The cost of village equipment employed.
         f.   The cost of mileage reimbursed to the village employees.
   (f)   Requirements for existing facilities and land uses.
      (1)   Existing facilities shall provide copies of all federal, state, and
local facility operation approvals or certificates, and ongoing environmental
monitoring results to the village.
      (2)   Existing facilities shall provide additional environmental or
safety monitoring as deemed necessary by the Village Planning Committee,
specifically including the production of any and all environmental statements
detailing the extent of chemical use and storage on the property.
      (3)   Existing facilities shall replace equipment or expand in a manner
that improves the existing environmental and safety technologies already in
existence.
      (4)   Existing facilities shall have the responsibility of devising and/
or filing with the village a contingency plan satisfactory to the Planning
Committee for the immediate notification of the appropriate village officers in
the event of an emergency.
      (5)   Property owners with an existing agricultural use shall be exempt
from requirements of this section as they relate to restrictions on
agricultural uses, provided however, that such exemption shall only apply to
the property owners in existence at the time of passage of the section, and
this exemption shall not constitute a covenant running with the land.
   (g)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   In the event an individual and/or facility causes the release of
any contaminants which endanger the Groundwater Protection Overlay District,
the individual/facility causing said release shall immediately cease and
desist, and provide clean-up satisfactory to the village.
      (2)   The individual/facility shall be responsible for all costs of
cleanup and the village consultant fees at the invoice amount plus
administrative costs for oversight, review, and documentation, including all of
the following.
         a.   The cost of village employees’ time associated in any way with
the clean-up based on the hourly rate paid to the employee multiplied by a
factor determined by the village, representing the village’s cost for expenses,
benefits, insurance, sick leave, holidays, overtime, vacation, and similar
benefits.
         b.   The cost of village equipment employed.
         c.   The cost of mileage reimbursed to the village employees
attributed to the clean-up.
      (3)   Following any such discharge, the village may require additional
test monitoring or other requirements as outlined in subsection (f) and this
subsection (g).
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to construct or use any structure, land, or
water in violation of this section. Any person who is specifically damaged by
such violations may institute appropriate action or proceeding to enjoin a
violation of this section.
      (5)   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less
than $100 nor more than $500 plus the costs of the prosecution for each
violation, and in default of payment of such forfeiture and costs, shall be
imprisoned in the County Jail until payment thereof, but not exceeding 30 days,
or in the alternative, shall have such costs added to their real estate
property tax bill as a lien against the property. Each day a violation exists
or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (h)   Severability clause. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
paragraph, or phrase of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, or
other applicable administrative or governing body, such decision shall not
affect the validity of any other section, subsection, sentence, clause,
paragraph, or phrase or portion thereof. The Village Board of the village
hereby declares that they would have passed this section and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, paragraph, or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
paragraphs, or phrases may be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 9-1-505, passed 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 2: SEWER UTILITY REGULATIONS AND RATES
Section
Article A: User Rates
   
9-2-1   Sewer Utility deregulated
   
9-2-2   General services; metered Smg-1
   
9-2-3   Commercial and industrial sewer service; metered Smg-1
   
9-2-4   Significant industrial user sewer service; Sig-1
   
9-2-5   General sewer service; unmetered Sum-1
   
9-2-6   Rate schedules; fees, charges, costs, and forfeitures
Article B: Sewer Utility Rules and Regulations
   
9-2-7   Establishing the Sewer Utility
   
9-2-8   Management, operation, and control of the Sewer Utility
   
9-2-9   User rules and regulations
   
9-2-10   Applications for service
   
9-2-11   Definitions
   
9-2-12   Interpretation
   
9-2-13   Holding tank disposal and acceptance; limitations; restrictions on
septic tank and septage disposal
   
9-2-14   Sewer user charge system
   
9-2-15   Reservation of power to retroactively assess commercial and industrial
users for actual cost of treatment not captured by standard fees
   
9-2-16   Surcharge for capacity reservation
   
9-2-17   Standby charge for fixed capital costs
   
9-2-18   Application for service
   
9-2-19   Tap permits
   
9-2-20   Use of public sewers
   
9-2-21   Control of industrial wastes directed to wastewater collection system
   
9-2-22   Right of entry, identification, and safety
   
9-2-23   Sewer construction
   
9-2-24   Miscellaneous rules and regulations
   
9-2-25   Violations and penalties
   
9-2-26   Utility responsibility
   
9-2-27   Schedules
ARTICLE A: USER RATES
§ 9-2-1 SEWER UTILITY DEREGULATED.
   The Village Sewer Utility, by action of the Village Board, has been
deregulated from the rate setting authority of the State Public Service
Commission.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-2 GENERAL SERVICES; METERED SMG-1.
   (a)   Applicability. Sewage contributors discharging domestic strength
sewage up to 250 mg/l, B.O.D. and 250 mg/l suspended solids are eligible for
general sewer service-metered rates which shall be billed quarterly (Smg-1).
      (1)   Quarterly service charge. In amounts established by resolution of
the Village Board.
      (2)   Plus volume charge. For each 1,000 gallons domestic strength sewage
discharged to the sanitary sewer system a volume charge shall be added to the
quarterly service charge.
   (b)   Billing.
      (1)   Responsibility. Bills for sewer service are the sole responsibility
of the property owner of the premises where the service is provided. All bills
are the obligation of and will be sent to the owner of the property. Billing to
any person(s) other than the listed property owner requires advanced approval
from the Utility Administrator.
      (2)   Payment of bills. Bills for sewer service are generated quarterly
and become due and payable on the first of the month following the period for
which service is rendered. A late payment charge of 3% but not less than $0.30
will be added to bills not paid within 20 days of issuance. This one-time 3%
late payment charge will be applied only to any unpaid balance for the current
billing period’s usage. This late payment charge is applicable to all
customers. The Utility customer may be given a written notice that the bill is
overdue no sooner than 20 days after the bill is issued. A $30 charge will be
made for processing checks that have been returned for insufficient funds.
      (3)   Failure to receive bill no penalty exemption. Every reasonable care
will be exercised in the proper delivery of sewer bills. Failure to receive a
sewer bill, however, shall not relieve any person of the responsibility for
payment of sewer rates within the prescribed period, nor exempt any person from
any penalty imposed for delinquency in the payment thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Smg-1 rate schedule, see §
9-2-27(a)
§ 9-2-3 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SEWER SERVICE; METERED SMG-1.
   (a)   Applicability. When the sewage from any commercial or industrial
contributor does not exceed the strength limitations of 250 mg/l for B.O.D. and
250 mg/l for suspended solids, the sewer bill shall be calculated under
Schedule Smg-1. Where the waste of any such contributor exceeds the above
strength, a periodic sampling shall be taken and the sewage analyzed to
determine the strength of said waste, which will be billed quarterly at the
following rates.
      (1)   Quarterly service charge. Established pursuant to Schedule Smg-1.
      (2)   Plus volume charge. See §
9-2-2(a)(2).
      (3)   Plus strength charge.
         a.   Biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.): cost per pound in excess of
250 mg/l.
         b.   Suspended solids (S.S.): cost per pound in excess of 250 mg/l.
         c.   Phosphorous (P): cost per pound in excess of 7 mg/l.
   (b)   Billing. Frequency, responsibility, and late charges shall be the same
as under Schedule Smg-1.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Smg-2 rates, see §
9-2-27(c)
§ 9-2-4 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER SEWER SERVICE; SIG-1.
   (a)   Applicability. For contributors classified as significant industrial
users, the sewer bill shall be calculated under schedule Sig-1 at the following
rates.
      (1)   Quarterly service charge. To be calculated annually based upon the
previous years’ volume as a proportion of the total volume received at the
Wastewater Treatment Plant times fixed costs.
      (2)   Plus volume charge. Same as schedule Smg-1. (See §
9-2-2(a)(2).)
      (3)   Plus strength charge. Strength charge shall be the same as under
schedule Smg-2. (See §
9-2-3(a)(3).)
   (b)   Billing. Frequency, responsibility, and late charges shall be the same
as under Schedule Smg-1.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Sig-1 rates, see §
9-2-27(d)
§ 9-2-5 GENERAL SEWER SERVICE; UNMETERED SUM-1.
   Service shall be billed at the rate established pursuant to the schedules
implementing §
9-2-6. This rate shall be applied only to single-family residential and small
commercial customers and approximates the cost for 11,000 gallons per quarter
discharged to the sewer system. If it is determined by the Utility that the
user discharges more than 11,000 gallons per quarter to the system, an
additional charge per 1,000 gallons will be made for estimated additional usage
at the Smg-1 volume charge rate.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Sum-1 rates, see §
9-2-27(b)
§ 9-2-6 RATE SCHEDULES; FEES, CHARGES, COSTS, AND FORFEITURES.
   All rates applicable to each type of sewer service under §§
9-2-2,
9-2-3,
9-2-4, and
9-2-5 shall be established pursuant to a rate resolution adopted by the Village
Board, as periodically amended by the Board, from time to time. In addition,
such resolution shall also establish bonding, insurance and fee structures,
together with forfeiture assessments.
   (a)   Rate schedules.
      (1)   Smg-1 metered service (monthly service charge).
      (2)   Plus volume charge.
      (3)   Smg-2 commercial and industrial service.
      (4)   Plus strength charge.
      (5)   Sig-1 significant industrial user service.
      (6)   Sum-1 general unmetered sewer service.
      (7)   Holding tank disposal fee.
      (8)   Such other and further types of sewer service charges as are
adopted from time to time by the Village Board.
   (b)   Other charges, fees, and costs.
      (1)   Public liability insurance-required coverage.
      (2)   Bond amount.
      (3)   Lateral construction costs.
      (4)   Connection fees.
      (5)   Forfeitures for failure to connect or other violations of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer connection application fees, see §
9-2-27(f)
ARTICLE B: SEWER UTILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 9-2-7 ESTABLISHING THE SEWER UTILITY.
   This chapter establishes the Sewer Utility of the village and establishes
sewer rates, rules, and regulations concerning the government thereof, and also
concerning government of sewer users, licensed plumbers, and others, and
penalties.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-8 MANAGEMENT, OPERATION, AND CONTROL OF THE SEWER UTILITY.
   (a)   Management. The management, operation, and control of the wastewater
collection system for the village is vested in the Village Board. All records,
minutes, written proceedings, and financial records thereof shall be kept by
the Village Clerk.
   (b)   Operation and control. The Sewer Utility of the village shall have the
power to construct sanitary sewer lines for public use, and shall have the
power to lay sewer mains in and through the alleys, streets, and public ground
of the village and, generally, to do all such work as may be found necessary or
convenient in the management of the system. The Approving Authority shall have
the power, subject to oversight by the Village Board personally or through
other officers, employees, or agents of the village, to enter upon any land for
the purpose of making examination or supervise in the performance of their
duties under this chapter, without liability therefor, and the Board shall have
power to purchase and acquire for the village all real and personal property
which may be necessary for construction of the wastewater collection system, or
for any repair, remodeling, or additions thereto.
   (c)   Condemnation of real estate. Whenever any real estate or any easements
therein, or use thereof, shall, in the judgment of the Village Board, be
necessary to the wastewater collection system, and whenever for any cause, an
agreement for the purchase thereof cannot be made with the owner thereof, the
Village Board shall proceed with all necessary steps to take such real estate,
easement, or use by condemnation in accordance with state statutes and the
Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policy Act of 1970, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq., if federal funds are used.
   (d)   Title to real estate and personalty. All property, real, personal, and
mixed, acquired for the construction of the wastewater collection system, and
all plans, specifications, diagrams, papers, books, and records connected with
sewer system, and all buildings, machinery, and fixtures pertaining thereto,
shall be the property of said village.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-9 USER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The rules, regulations, and sewer rates of the village herein set
forth shall be considered a part of the contract with every person, company, or
corporation who is connected with the sewer system of the village and every
such person, company, or corporation by connecting with the sewer system shall
be considered as expressing his or her, or their, assent to be bound thereby.
   (b)   Whenever any of said rules and regulations, or such others as the
Village Board may hereafter adopt are violated, the service to the building or
place of such violation shall be discontinued by the Approving Authority (even
if two or more parties are receiving service through the same connection), and
shall not be re-established except by order of the Approving Authority and on
payment of all the expenses and established charges of shutting off and
reconnecting, and upon such other terms as the Approving Authority may
determine and a satisfactory understanding with the party that no further cause
for complaint shall arise. In case of such violations the Approving Authority
may declare any payment made for the service by the party or parties committing
such violation to be a forfeiture, and the same shall thereupon be forfeited.
   (c)   The right is reserved by the Village Board to change the user rules,
regulations, and sewer rates from time to time as it deems advisable, and to
make special rates and contracts in all proper cases.
   (d)   Because, by accepting wastewater, the village assumes all risk for
treatment and meeting WPDES permit limitations, it reserves the right to
immediately discontinue acceptance of wastewater for operational and permit
reasons.
   (e)   This chapter regulates the use of public and private sewers and
drains, disposal of wastewater into the sanitary sewers, and the discharge of
waters and wastes into the public sewage systems within the village. It
provides for and explains the method used for levying and collecting wastewater
treatment service charges, sets uniform requirements for discharges into the
wastewater collection, and treatment systems, and enables the village to comply
with administrative provisions, water quality requirements, toxic and
pretreatment effluent standards, and other discharge criteria which are
required or authorized by the state or federal law. Its intent is to derive the
maximum public benefit by regulating the characteristics of wastewater
discharged into the village sewerage system.
   (f)   This chapter provides a means for determining wastewater volumes,
constituents, and characteristics, the setting of charges and fees, and the
issuing of permits to certain users. Revenues derived from the application of
this chapter shall be used to defray the Village Sewer Utility costs of
operating and maintaining adequate wastewater collection and treatment systems,
and to provide sufficient funds for capital outlay, debt service costs, and
capital improvements.
   (g)   The charges and fees herein have been established pursuant to
requirements of the state statutes. This chapter shall supersede any previous
village ordinance, rules, or regulations, and shall repeal all parts thereof
that may be inconsistent with this chapter and as to any applicable statute,
the state statute shall be controlling.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-10 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   Application for sewer service shall be made in writing on a form furnished
by the village. The application will contain the legal description of the
property to be served, name of the owner, the exact use to be made of the
service, and the size of the service connection.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of the Village Sewer Utility, or
such other officer, employee, or board as the Village Board may assign to
perform the duties of the APPROVING AUTHORITY, as described in this chapter.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20° centigrade,
expressed as milligrams per liter. Quantitative determination of B.O.D. shall
be made in accordance with procedures set forth in STANDARD METHODS.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building system and conveys it to the building sewer.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine in milligrams per liter which
must be added to sewage to produce a residual as specified in the Wisconsin
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. The residue from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of food products and produce.
   GROUND GARBAGE. The residue from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried
freely in suspension under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the
wastewater collection system with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight receptacle which receives and retains domestic
sewage conveyed by a water carrying system, and is designed and constructed to
facilitate ultimate disposal of the sewage at another site.
   HUMAN HABITATION. The use or occupation of a structure by human beings
including, but not limited to, single- and multi-family residences, commercial
and industrial facilities, and governmental and institutional buildings.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater or septage with pollutants that will
adversely affect or disrupt the wastewater treatment processes, or effluent
quality or sludge quality if discharged to a wastewater treatment facility.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater from industrial process, trade, or
business, as distinct from sanitary sewage including cooling water and the
discharge from sewage pretreatment facilities.
   LATERAL. The extension from the building drain which connects the interior
wastewater lines of a building to the village wastewater collection system
sewer main sewer lines.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio. The parts per million value
multiplied by the factor 8.34 is equivalent to pounds per 1,000,000 gallons of
water.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firms, company, municipal or private
corporations, associations, societies, institutions, enterprises, governmental
agency, and other entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of the hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of
solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7.
   RATE RESOLUTION. A resolution periodically passed by the Village Board to
establish user charge rates and fees that reflect proportionate payment of
total operating cost of the system incurred by the transmission and treatment
of the user’s wastewater.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial plants (other than industrial
wastes from such plants), together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters
as may be present.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer main that conveys wastewater, industrial
wastes, or a combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and
groundwaters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTAGE. Scum, liquid, sludge, or other waste from a septic tank, soil
absorption field, vault toilet, or privy. This does not include the waste from
a grease trap.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A publicly-owned pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other
waste liquids, including storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. A user that discharges more than 25,000 gallons
per day of wastewater (including process wastewater, sanitary wastewater, non-
contact cooling water, and boiler blowdown), or high strength wastewater with a
mass of B.O.D. or suspended solids greater than the mass contained in 25,000
gallons per day of domestic waste.
   SLUG. Any discharge of sewage or industrial waste which in quantity of
concentration of any given constituent adversely affects the collection system
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment plant.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage,
and Industrial Wastes published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER (DRAIN). A sewer that carries storm, surface, and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, wastewater, or industrial waste, and which are removable
by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED
SOLIDS shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard
Methods.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. A combination of the liquid and
water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants,
and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater
that may be present but not intentionally admitted.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation, and pumping of wastewater and industrial wastes,
including all public sanitary sewers.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. An arrangements of devices and structures
(including treatment plant) for treating and disposing of wastewater,
industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE
TREATMENT.
   WISCONSIN POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (WPDES) PERMIT. A document
issued by the State Department of Natural Resources, which establishes effluent
limitations and monitoring requirements for the municipal wastewater treatment
facility.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-12 INTERPRETATION.
   (a)   In this chapter, the word “may” shall be permissive and the word
“shall” is mandatory.
   (b)   References to specific state statutes and Administrative Code chapters
and sections shall be interpreted as including any future amendments or
recreations of the same.
   (c)   Titles of sections and subsections are illustrative of the contents
thereof only, and shall not control interpretation and application of those
contents.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-13 HOLDING TANK DISPOSAL AND ACCEPTANCE; LIMITATIONS; RESTRICTIONS ON
SEPTIC TANK AND SEPTAGE DISPOSAL.
   (a)   Septic tank and septage disposal prohibited. Barring action taken by
the Village Board to authorize the same, no septic or septic tank, or septage
waste, shall be disposed of into village sanitary sewers or the wastewater
collection system generally.
   (b)   Holding tank disposal.
      (1)   No person in the business of gathering and disposing of holding
tank sewage shall transfer such material into any disposal area or sewer
manhole located within the village unless a permit for disposal has been first
obtained from the Board. Written application for this permit shall be made to
the Board and shall state the name and address of the applicant; the number of
its disposal units; and the size, make, model, and license number of each unit.
Permits shall be non-transferable except in the case of replacement of the
disposal unit for which a permit shall have been originally issued. The Board
may impose such conditions as it deems necessary on any permit granted.
      (2)   Charges for a disposal shall be as are established under §
9-2-6(a)(7).
      (3)   a.   Each person disposing of holding tank waste agrees to carry
public liability insurance in an amount not less than as established under §
9-2-6(b)(1) to protect any and all persons or property from injury and/or
damage caused in any way or manner by any act, or failure to act, by any of his
or her employees.
         b.   A certificate of insurance coverage in such amounts and for such
exposure as are required by the village shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
It shall be a condition of the permit that said insurance coverage shall be
maintained at all times.
      (4)   Materials disposed of into the wastewater collection system shall
be of domestic origin only, and the permit holder shall comply with the
provisions of any and all applicable ordinances of the village and shall not
deposit or drain any gasoline, oil, acid, alkali, grease, rags, waste volatile,
or inflammable liquids, or other deleterious substances into any manhole nor
allow any earth, sand, or other solid material to pass into any part of the
wastewater collection system.
      (5)   Each person disposing holding tank waste agrees to indemnify and
save harmless the village from any and all liability and claims for damages
arising out of or resulting from work and labor performed, and shall furnish a
bond to the village in an amount determined by the Approving Authority to
adequately guarantee its performance. Said performance bond shall be delivered
to the Approving Authority prior to the issuance of the permit hereunder.
      (6)   Unless otherwise authorized by the approving authority, holding
tank waste shall be disposed of only at and through the village RV dumping
station.
   (c)   Waste sampling.
      (1)   Holding tank waste discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection and a determination of character and
concentration of said wastes. The determinations shall be made by the industry
or the licensed disposer as often as may be deemed necessary by the Approving
Authority.
      (2)   Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative
of the composition of the wastes. The sampling may be accomplished either
manually or by the use of mechanical equipment acceptable to the Approving
Authority.
      (3)   Testing facilities shall be the responsibility of the person
discharging the waste or septage, and shall be subject to the approval of the
Approving Authority. Access to sampling locations shall be granted to the
Approving Authority at all times. Every care shall be exercised in the
collection of samples to ensure their preservation in a state comparable to
that at the time the sample was taken.
      (4)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters, wastes, and septage to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants (1978, 40 CFR part
136). Sampling methods, locations, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Village Board.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Holding tank charges, see §
9-2-27(e)
§ 9-2-14 SEWER USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (a)   Policy. It shall be the policy of the village to obtain sufficient
revenues to pay the cost of:
      (1)   The annual debt retirement payment on any bonded indebtedness
pertaining to the sewer utility;
      (2)   Any required cash reserve account payment;
      (3)   Operation and maintenance of the wastewater collection system and
wastewater treatment facility, including a replacement fund, for example, a
cash account to be used for future expenditures for obtaining or installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary to maintain the
capacity and performance thereof during the service life for which such system
and facility were designed and constructed through a system of user charges as
defined in this section; and
      (4)   The sewer use charge system shall assure that each user of the
sewage works pays a proportionate share of the cost of operating such works.
   (b)   Annual review. User charges shall be reviewed not less than annually.
The Plan Commission and the Village Board shall perform such review. User
charges shall be adjusted, as required, to reflect the actual number, types,
and size of users and actual costs.
   (c)   Inability to obtain meter reading. Where it is not possible to obtain
a water meter reading, or in cases where no water meter exists, the customer
shall be assigned an average water volume by the village, based on previous
meter readings, and this shall be so stated on the bill. The difference shall
be adjusted when the meter is again read.
   (d)   Billing; payment. All charges for sewerage shall be made quarterly and
shall be payable on the first day of January, April, July, and October of each
year. A penalty will be added to those bills not paid on or before the
twentieth day after the due date of the bill in accord with §
9-2-2(b)(2). Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse nonpayment. Sewerage
service charges shall be a lien on the property served in accordance with Wis.
Stats. § 66.0821(4)(d).
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-15 RESERVATION OF POWER TO RETROACTIVELY ASSESS COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
USERS FOR ACTUAL COST OF TREATMENT NOT CAPTURED BY STANDARD FEES.
   All commercial and industrial users are billed on a quarterly basis,
retroactively, for sewer services rendered by the village, upon the basis of
actual volume of sanitary sewage disposed of in the next preceding quarter by
each such user. Because the operational costs upon which the user rates are
determined are calculated upon the basis of the next prior year’s experience,
both in general and with respect to a particular commercial or industrial user,
as to the types and strength of waste disposed of into the village wastewater
collection system, the village reserves the right at the end of each calendar
year to retroactively assess commercial and industrial users with the actual
cost of treating and disposing of their sanitary sewage so as to avoid having
to build those excess costs into the General Sewer Service Metered Rate, Smg-
1 for the forthcoming calendar year. This process is necessitated because of
one or both of the following two factors.
   (a)   In the case of a new commercial or industrial user for whom there was
no experience during the preceding calendar year, the potential for inaccuracy
in estimating the types and strength of the waste that it actually disposes of.
   (b)   Expansion of an existing commercial or industrial user’s operations
during the course of a calendar year, the estimates pertaining to which are
inaccurate, and understate either the types or strength of sanitary sewage
disposed of. In the case of a commercial or industrial user whose types or
strength of sanitary sewage are lower during the current year, on the basis of
such a year-end calculation, a credit shall be afforded to it against the next
year’s quarterly statements.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-16 SURCHARGE FOR CAPACITY RESERVATION.
   In the event that the village enters into an agreement with an industrial
user to reserve to it, in whatever manner is used to describe such a
reservation, capacity in the Village Wastewater Treatment Facility for either a
new industrial use not yet commenced as of the time of such agreement or for
additional capacity not then utilized by the said industrial user, the capacity
so agreed upon shall be reserved to and for the benefit of the identified
industrial user for the following period of time only.
   (a)   The agreed upon time for construction by the industrial user of new or
additional improvements or start up of new or more extensive waste generating
processes, if any, which shall make use of the reserve capacity.
   (b)   Should the industrial user fail to make use of all or any part of the
reserved capacity commencing no later than the end of the period designated in
subsection (a) above, the village reserves the right to exercise one of the
following options.
      (1)   Assess against the industrial user in question a penalty equal to
revenue lost as a result of its non-use of its reserved capacity attributable
against the operational costs that otherwise would have been captured from and
against the user’s projected use of its reserve capacity, less actual use, if
any.
      (2)   Declare the reservation of capacity null and void, in whole or in
part, releasing it for use by other users of the system. This section shall be
incorporated by reference in each agreement reserving capacity in the Village
Wastewater Treatment System, whether expressly set forth therein or not.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-17 STANDBY CHARGE FOR FIXED CAPITAL COSTS.
   The village reserves the right in the course of formulating fees for use of
its Wastewater Collection and Treatment System to assess a standby charge
against industrial users. Said fee shall be calculated upon the following
basis: The cost of debt service for plant improvements shall by multiplied
times the percentage of allocation of use of the entire system attributed to
each individual industrial user divided by the number of years of outstanding
debt, to which sum shall be added the costs of maintenance and taxes
attributable thereto. The percentage of use attribution shall be based upon the
next previous calendar year’s use data for the industrial user in question and
if none, upon a reasonable estimate of use calculated by the village upon the
best information available to it.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-18 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Generally. Every person connecting with the wastewater system shall
file an application in writing to the Village Clerk on such forms as are
prescribed for that purpose. Blanks for such applications will be furnished at
the office of the Village Clerk. The application must state fully and truly all
the use which will be requested, except upon further application and permission
regularly obtained from said Approving Authority. If the applicant is not the
owner of the premises connected to the wastewater system, written consent of
the owner must accompany the application. Persons connected to the sewer system
are referred to herein as “users.”
   (b)   Multi-service applications. Subject to approval by the Approving
Authority, the application may be for service to more than one building or more
than one unit of service through one lateral connection, and in such case,
charges shall be made accordingly. This notwithstanding, though, in accord with
§
9-2-24(b)(4), the use of a single lateral to service two or more buildings
shall only exist with respect to pre-existing buildings served by a pre-
existing lateral. All new construction after the effective date of this chapter
shall require installation of separate laterals to service each building, even
if those buildings are constructed on the same lot, parcel, or tract of land.
   (c)   Approval or rejection of application. If it appears that the service
applied for will not provide adequate service for the contemplated use, the
Approving Authority may reject the application. If the Approving Authority
approves the application, a permit shall be issued for services as shown on the
application.
   (d)   Payment for connection application. Prior to the issuance of the
approval for service, users shall pay the connection charge designated in the
rate resolution. If the lateral construction cost to the Utility exceeds the
amount identified in the rate resolution, then the user will be required to pay
the former cost.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer connection application fees, see §
9-2-27(f)
§ 9-2-19 TAP PERMITS.
   (a)   Permit required. After sewer connections have been made to any
building or any premises, no plumber shall make any alterations, extensions, or
attachments, unless the party ordering such tapping or other work shall exhibit
the proper permit for the same from the village.
   (b)   User to keep in repair. All users shall keep their own laterals in
good repair and protected from frost, at their own risk and expense, and shall
prevent any unnecessary overburdening of the sewer system.
   (c)   User use only. No user shall allow others or other services to connect
the wastewater system through his or her lateral.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-20 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (a)   Plumbers. No person who does not have a state plumbing license shall
do any plumbing or pipe fitting work in connection with the wastewater system.
   (b)   Tapping the mains.
      (1)   No person, except those having special permission from the village,
or their agents, will be permitted, under any circumstances, to tap the village
mains or laterals connecting with mains. The kind and size of connection with a
main shall be that specified in the permit or order from the village.
      (2)   Mains and laterals shall always be tapped on the top half, and not
within six inches (15 centimeters); of the joint, or within 24 inches (60
centimeters) of another lateral connection.
   (c)   Installation of laterals.
      (1)   All laterals on private property shall be installed in accordance
with Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter SPS 382.
      (2)   Pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code, SPS 382.30, all laterals shall be
inspected. Building sewer and private interceptor main sewers shall be
inspected upon completion of placement of the pipe and before backfilling and
shall also be tested before or after backfilling.
   (d)   Sanitary sewers. No person shall cause to be discharged any
stormwater, surface drainage, groundwater, roof runoff, cooling water,
unpolluted water, or incompatible pollutants into any sanitary sewer. No
persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appeals likely, in the opinion
of the Approving Authority, that such wastes can harm either the wastewater
collection system, wastewater treatment plant or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or may otherwise endanger life, limb, property,
or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Approving Authority will give consideration to the sewers,
nature of the wastewater treatment process, capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The following substances are
prohibited.
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, or
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment facility.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0.
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operations of the wastewater collection and treatment facility such as,
but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch
manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers,
and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      (6)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F.
      (7)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils in excess
of 100 parts per million, whether emulsified or not which will or may cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the wastewater system.
      (8)   Any commercial garbage that has not been properly shredded (also
referred to as “ground garbage”). The installation and operation of any
commercial grinder equipped with a motor of one horsepower or greater shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Approving Authority.
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
mercury, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an
excessive chlorine requirement to such a degree that in the opinion of the
Approving Authority such materials received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment facility exceed the limits established by the Approving
Authority for such materials.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Approving Authority as necessary after treatment of the
composite wastewater, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (11)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Approving Authority in
compliance with state or federal regulations.
      (12)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the wastewater collection system, release obnoxious gases, form
suspended solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a
condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
      (13)   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater
treatment facility;
         b.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein;
         c.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium sulfate);
         d.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions); and/or
         e.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the Wastewater Treatment
Facility effluent cannot meet the requirements of the Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Environmental Protection of the state.
   (e)   Special arrangements. No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting any special agreement between the Approving Authority
and any person whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may
be admitted to the wastewater treatment facility, either before or after
pretreatment, provided that there is no impairment of the functioning of the
wastewater treatment facility by reason of the admission of such wastes, and no
extra costs required to treat the waste will be incurred by the Utility without
recompense by the person.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-21 CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES DIRECTED TO WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   (a)   Industrial discharges. If any waters or wastes are discharged or
proposed to be discharged to the wastewater collection system, which waters or
wastes contain substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in §
9-2-20(d), and which in the judgment of the Approving Authority have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater collection system or treatment facility,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life, health, or constitute a public nuisance, the Approving Authority may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (b)   Control manholes.
      (1)   Each person discharging industrial wastes into the wastewater
collection system shall construct and maintain one or more control manholes or
access points to facilitate observation, measurement, and sampling of his or
her wastes, including domestic sewage.
      (2)   Control manholes or access facilities shall be located and built in
a manner acceptable to the Approving Authority. If measuring and/or sampling
devices are to be permanently installed, they shall be of a type acceptable to
the Approving Authority.
      (3)   Control manholes, access facilities, and related equipment shall be
installed by and at the expense of the person discharging the wastes, and shall
be maintained by that person so as to be in safe condition, accessible and in
proper operating condition at all times. The Approving Authority prior to the
beginning construction shall approve plans for installation of the control
manholes or access facilities and related equipment.
      (4)   Control manholes shall be located so as to facilitate access
thereto by the village at any time, without the necessity of seeking permission
from the user.
   (c)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing industrial
waste collection and treatment charges shall be the metered water consumption
of the person as shown in the records of meter reading maintained by the
Village Water Utility Department.
   (d)   Metering of waste. Devices for measuring the volume of waste
discharged maybe required by the Approving Authority if this volume cannot
otherwise be determined from the metered water consumption records. Metering
devices for determining the volume of waste shall be installed, owned, and
maintained by the person to accuracy standards acceptable to the Approving
Authority. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed
without the consent of the Approving Authority.
   (e)   Provision for deductions. In the event that a person discharging
industrial waste into the wastewater collection system produces evidence
satisfactory to the Approving Authority that more than 10% of the total annual
volume of water used for all purposes does not reach the public sewer, then the
determination of the water consumption to be used in computing the waste volume
discharged into the system may be made a matter of agreement between the
Approving Authority and the person.
   (f)   Waste sampling.
      (1)   Industrial wastes discharged into the wastewater collection system
shall be subject to periodic inspection and a determination by and at the
expense of the user of character and concentration of said wastes. The
determinations shall be made by the industry as often as may be deemed
necessary by the Approving Authority.
      (2)   Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative
of the composition of the wastes. The sampling may be accomplished either
manually or by the use of mechanical equipment acceptable to the Approving
Authority.
      (3)   Installation, operation, and maintenance of the sampling facilities
shall be the responsibility of the person discharging the waste and shall be
subject to the approval of the Approving Authority, or its duly authorized
representative, at all times. Reasonable care in the form of best management
practices shall be exercised in the collection of samples to ensure their
preservation in a state comparable to that at the time the sample was taken.
   (g)   Pretreatment. Where required, in the opinion of the Approving
Authority, to modify or eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures,
processes, or operation of the wastewater collection system or treatment
facility, the person shall provide, at his or her expense, such pretreatment or
processing facilities as may be determined required to render the waste
acceptable for admission to the wastewater collection system.
   (h)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Approving Authority, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing sand, oil, and/or
grease in excessive amounts, flammable wastes, and other harmful ingredients
except that such interceptors shall not be required for single-family or multi-
family residences. All interceptors shall be of a type readily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In maintaining these interceptors, the owner(s) shall
be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material, and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which shall be subject to review by the Approving Authority. Disposal
of the collected materials performed by owner’s personal or currently licensed
waste disposal firm must be in accordance with Department of Natural Resources
rules and regulations.
   (i)   Analyses. Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial
wastes shall be those set forth in Standard Methods. However, alternate methods
for certain analyses of industrial wastes may be used subject to mutual
agreement between the Approving Authority and the person. Determination of the
character and concentration of the industrial wastes shall be made by the
person discharging the wastes or by the person’s agent, as designated and
required by the Approving Authority. The Utility may also make its own analyses
on the wastes and these determinations shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (j)   Submission of information. Plans, specifications, and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed control manholes, sampling,
metering, or pretreatment of processing facilities shall be submitted for
review of the Approving Authority prior to the start of their construction if
the effluent from such facilities is to be discharged into the public sewers.
   (k)   Compliance. The 2022 Compliance Maintenance Annual Report, which was
last updated June 15, 2023, as presented by the Village Department of Public
Works for submission to the State Department of Natural Resources, and attached
to the original resolution that this division (k) originates from, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013; Res. 2023-02, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 9-2-22 RIGHT OF ENTRY, IDENTIFICATION, AND SAFETY.
   Every user shall permit the Approving Authority, village employees, or other
duly authorized agents of the village, bearing proper credentials and
identification, to enter all properties at all reasonable hours of the day for
the purpose of inspection, observation, testing of all pipes, fixtures, drains,
and sanitary sewer connections in accordance with the provisions of these rules
and regulations. Duly authorized employees or agents of the village shall have
no authority to inquire into any process beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for wastewater treatment. While performing the necessary work, the
authorized person shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the property owner. Every owner must at all times, truthfully
and without concealment, answer all questions put to them relative to utility
use.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-23 SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Work authorized. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any sanitary sewer or
appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a written permit from the
Approving Authority.
   (b)   Cost of sewer connection. All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of laterals shall be borne by the owner pursuant to
the charge established under §
9-2-6(b)(3).
   (c)   Use of old building sewers. Existing laterals may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Approving Authority, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (d)   Materials and methods of construction. The size, slope, alignment,
materials of construction of a lateral, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or
other applicable rules and regulations of the village. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9 shall apply. In refilling the opening, after the service pipes are laid,
the earth must be laid in layers of not more than nine inches in depth, and
each layer thoroughly compacted to prevent settling. This work, together with
the replacing of sidewalks, ballast, and paving must be done in such a manner
as to restore the street and sidewalk to a condition at least as good as had
existed before being disturbed, subject to inspection by and approval of the
village. No opening of the streets for tapping the laterals or mains will be
permitted when the ground is frozen.
   (e)   Building sewer grade. Whenever possible, laterals shall be brought to
a building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the connection with the
wastewater collection system, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the lateral.
   (f)   Storm and groundwater drains. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, area-way drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building drain or lateral which is connected
directly or indirectly to the wastewater collection system, nor install a
combined sewer of any kind which drains into the system.
   (g)   Conformance to plumbing code. The connection of the lateral into the
wastewater collection system shall conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the village, or
the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the
W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas tight
and water tight. The Approving Authority, before installation, must approve any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials.
   (h)   Inspection of connection. The applicant for a lateral permit shall
notify the Approving Authority when a lateral is ready for inspection and
connection to the wastewater collection system. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Approving Authority.
   (i)   Barricades; restoration. All excavations for a lateral installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the village.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-24 MISCELLANEOUS RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Mandatory connection.
      (1)   a.   The owner of each parcel of land adjacent to a sanitary sewer
on which there exists a building usable for human habitation or in a block
through which such system is extended, shall connect to such system within 60
days of notice in writing from the Approving Authority.
         b.   Upon failure to do so, the village may cause such connection to
be made and bill the property owner for such costs. If such costs are not paid
within 30 days, such notice shall be assessed as a special tax against the
property, all pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 281.45, provided, however, that the
owner may, within 30 days after completion of the work, file a written
statement with the Approving Authority stating that he or she cannot pay the
amount in one sum and asking that there be levied in not to exceed five equal
installments and that the amount shall be so collected with interest at the
rate of 18% per annum from the completion of the work, the unpaid balance being
a special tax lien, all pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 281.45.
      (2)   In lieu of the above, the village, at its option, may impose a
forfeiture for the period that the violation continues after ten days’ written
notice to any owner failing to make a connection to the sewer system in an
amount per month for each residential unit equivalent payable quarterly, as is
to be assessed in accord with § 9-2-6(b), for the period in which the failure
to connect continues, and upon failure to make such payment, said charge shall
be assessed as a special tax against the property, all pursuant to Wis. Stats.
§ 281.45.
      (3)   This section ordains that the failure to connect to the wastewater
collection system is contrary to the minimum health standards of said village
and fails to assure preservation of public health, comfort, and safety of said
village.
   (b)   Maintenance of sewer laterals.
      (1)   The owner of each lateral shall be responsible for all costs of
maintenance, repair, and replacement of the lateral from the building to the
connection to the sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Any proposed lateral work required in the public right-of-way shall
be submitted to the Approving Authority for approval prior to commencing work.
All restoration costs associated with lateral work in the public right-of-way
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the lateral, including backfilling,
compaction, restoration of street, curb and gutter replacement, sidewalk
replacement, boulevard replacement, topsoil replacement, and seeding.
      (3)   All laterals from the point of connection with a sanitary sewer to
and throughout the premises must be maintained free of defective conditions, by
and at the expense of the owner of the property.
      (4)   When any lateral needs to be relaid and two or more buildings are
connected to the lateral to be replaced, each building shall be disconnected
from such lateral and a new lateral shall be installed for each building.
   (c)   Penalty for improper use.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure the
wastewater collection system or any building, machinery, or fixture pertaining
thereto or to willfully and without authority of the village, bore or otherwise
cause to leak any tunnel, aqueduct, reservoir, pipe, or other thing used in the
system for holding, conveying, or collecting sewage.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided by this chapter or other
law, the village shall have the right of recovery from any responsible person
(s) of any expense incurred by the village for penalties imposed on the village
by state or federal authorities due to a violation of this chapter or other
law, correction of conditions impairing the proper operation of the sewer
system, and the repair or replacement of any sanitary sewer main or other
property of the utility damaged in any manner by any negligent or intended act
or omission by such person or by others under their control.
   (d)   Septic tanks prohibited. The maintenance and use of septic tanks and
other means of private sanitary sewage disposal within the area of the village
serviced by its wastewater collection system are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and a health hazard. From and after April 20, 1992, the use of septic
tanks or any private sewage disposal system within those areas of the village
serviced by its wastewater collection system shall be prohibited. For purposes
of this section, all property with frontage upon a public street or other
right-of-way in which a village sewer main is located is deemed to be serviced
by the system.
   (e)   Vacating of premises and discontinuance of service. Whenever premises
served by the system are to be vacated, or whenever any person desires to
discontinue service from the system, the village must be notified in writing.
The owner of the premises shall be liable for any damages to the property of
the village or such damage which may be discovered having occurred to its
property other than through the fault of the system or its employees,
representatives, or agents.
   (f)   Charges are lien on property. All sewer service, charges, and special
assessments shall be a lien on the lot, part of a lot, or parcel or tract of
land to which sewer services were supplied. All sums which have accrued during
the preceding year and which are unpaid by the first day of October of any
year, shall be certified to the Village Clerk to be placed on the tax roll for
collection as provided by Wis. Stats. § 66.0627.
   (g)   Unit of service definition. A unit of service shall consist of any
residential, commercial, industrial, or charitable aggregation of space or area
occupied for a distinct purpose such as a residence, apartment, flat, store,
office, industrial plant, church, or school. Each unit of service shall be
regarded as one consumer. Suites in houses, or apartments with complete
housekeeping functions (such as cooking), shall be classed as apartment houses;
thus, houses and apartments having suites of one, two, or more rooms with
toilet facilities, but without kitchen for cooking, are classed as rooming
houses. When a consumer’s premises has several buildings, for which services
are eligible and such buildings are used in the same business and connected by
the user, the Village Board shall set a separate rate for such complex.
   (h)   Adoption of other rules. There is hereby adopted all the rules and
regulations of the State Plumbing and State Building Codes, and the building
rules of the Department of Safety and Professional Services and the Department
of Natural Resources of the state insofar as the same are applicable to the
village. All extensions of the system will comply with Wis. Admin. Code,
Chapter NR 108.
   (i)   Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of the chapter is, for any reason, held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of the ordinance. The village
hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and section, subsection,
clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
section, subsection, sentences, clauses, and phrases be declared
unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-25 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Written notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any
provision of this chapter’s rules and regulations shall be served by the
Approving Authority with a written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or rules or regulations of the village, or who shall connect a
lateral without first having obtained a permit therefor, or who shall violate
any provisions of the state statutes, Administrative Code, or any other rules
or regulations which are incorporated by reference, shall upon conviction
thereof forfeit the amount established under §
9-2-6(b)(5) and the costs of prosecution. This, however, shall not bar the
village from enforcing the connection duties set out in §
9-2-21 for mandatory connection.
   (b)   Accidental discharge. Any person found to be responsible for
accidentally allowing a deleterious discharge into the sanitary sewer, which
causes damage to the wastewater treatment facility, receiving body of water
and/or downstream waters shall, in addition to a forfeiture, pay the amount to
cover damages, both values to be established by the Approving Authority.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-26 UTILITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is expressly stipulated that no claim shall be made against the village
for reasons of the breaking, clogging, stoppage, or freezing of any laterals or
components of the wastewater collection system or treatment facility, or from
any damage arising from repairing mains, making connections or extensions, or
any other work that may be deemed necessary, the right is hereby reserved to
cut off the service at any time for the purpose of repairs or any other
necessary purpose, any permit granted or regulation to the contrary
notwithstanding. Whenever it shall become necessary to shut off the sewer
service within any district of the village, the village shall, if practicable,
give notice to each consumer within the district of the time when such service
will be so shut off.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 9-2-27 SCHEDULES.
   (a)   Residential rates (Smg-1).
      (1)   Quarterly service charges:
5/8 inch     $25.58
3/4 inch     $25.58
1 inch       $51.16
1-1/4 inches $76.73
1-1/2 inches $102.31
2 inches     $179.04
2-1/2 inches $281.35
3 inches     $409.24
4 inches     $716.17
 
      (2)   Volume charges: $4.11 per 1,000 gallons.
   (b)   Unmetered residential rate (Sum-1).
      (1)   Forty-five dollars and twenty-three cents per quarter if usage is
less than 11,000 gal/qtr.
      (2)   If usage is greater than 11,000/qtr., charges are calculated per
Smg-1.
   (c)   Commercial and industrial rate (Smg-2).
      (1)   Quarterly service charge: Same as Smg-1 quarterly service charge.
      (2)   Volume change: Same as Smg-1 volume change.
      (3)   High strength surcharges are as follows:
 
B.O.D. surcharge     $0.46 per pound of B.O.D. over 250 mg/l
Phosphorus surcharge $10.66 per pound of phosphorus over 5 mg/l
S.S. surcharge       $0.79 per pound of S.S. over 250 mg/l
 
   (d)   Significant industrial rate (Sig-1).
      (1)   Quarterly service charge: Calculated based on previous year’s
volume proportion affixed charges as calculated in the rate file.
      (2)   Volume charge: Same as Smg-1 volume charge.
      (3)   High strength surcharges are as follows:
 
B.O.D. surcharge     $0.46 per pound of B.O.D. over 250 mg/l
Phosphorus surcharge $10.66 per pound of phosphorus over 5 mg/l
S.S. surcharge       $0.79 per pound of S.S. over 250 mg/l
 
   (e)   Holding tank charges.
 
Holding tank discharge filling fee $100 per year
Minimum liability insurance        $100,000
Performance bond                   $1,000
Volume charge                      $10 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (f)   Sewer connection application fees.
 
Commercial  $350
Industrial  $350
Other       $350
Residential $350
 
   (g)   Penalties.
 
Failure to connect to the sewer system $100 per month
                                       Not less than $10 per day nor more than
                                       $500 per day that the violation
Violation of the sewer use ordinance   persists, unless other penalty clauses
                                       are included in a specific sewer service
                                       agreement between the user and the
                                       village.
 
(Document, “Exhibit ‘A’”)
CHAPTER 3: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
9-3-1   Definitions
   
9-3-2   Grant of authority
   
9-3-3   Franchise territory
   
9-3-4   Duration of franchise renewal
   
9-3-5   Franchise exclusivity
   
9-3-6   Construction schedule
   
9-3-7   Compliance with federal, state, and local laws
   
9-3-8   Sale or transfer of the franchise; sale or transfer of stock
   
9-3-9   Rate change procedure
   
9-3-10   Payment to the village
   
9-3-11   Broadband cable communications service
   
9-3-12   Use of the streets
   
9-3-13   Trimming of trees
   
9-3-14   Raising of wires to permit moving of buildings
   
9-3-15   Service standards
   
9-3-16   Complaint procedures
   
9-3-17   Right of revocation; monetary penalties
   
9-3-18   Protection to subscribers against two-way
   
9-3-19   Cable map on file at the village office
   
9-3-20   Lock out provision available to all
   
9-3-21   Restrictions on selling and servicing
   
9-3-22   Grantee’s application incorporated
   
9-3-23   Indemnification and liability insurance
   
9-3-24   Channel capacity
   
9-3-25   Rate and services to be provided
   
9-3-26   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited
   
9-3-27   Access channels
   
9-3-28   Extensions of system
   
9-3-29   Transmissions
   
9-3-30   Security fund and penalty
   
9-3-31   Unauthorized connections or modifications
   
9-3-32   Penalty provisions
§ 9-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE. The supplying by the grantee of programming of network
stations, both commercial and educational, and of independent television
stations, local origination cablecast programming including public access,
educational access, and governmental access programming to a single television
receiver of FM service only to a single FM receiver.
   CLASS IV CHANNEL. A signaling path provided by a cable communications system
to transmit signals of any type from a subscriber terminal to another point in
the cable communications system.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended to the grantee to own,
operate, and maintain a cable communications system within the boundaries of
the village.
   GRANTEE. Turtle Lake Cable Television.
   GRANTEE; FRANCHISEE. The terms shall be synonymous.
   INITIAL SERVICE AREA. The corporation village limits.
   MAY. The term allows discretion.
   NON-VOICE RETURN COMMUNICATIONS. The provision of appropriate system design
techniques with the installation of cable and amplifiers suitable for the
subsequent insertion of necessary non-voice communications electronic modules.
   SHALL. The term is always mandatory.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who has a contract with the grantee for services.
   SYSTEM. All property rights of any kind which the grantee determines to be
necessary for the origination, reception, application transmission, either by
one or two directional distribution or electrical signals by cable or conduit
to subscribers, or any combination thereof, and signals of any kind and all
frequencies for any purpose including, but not limited to, television and data,
and auto signals.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Turtle Lake, Barron County and Polk County,
Wisconsin.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The local legislative body.
   VILLAGE; CITY. The terms shall be synonymous.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 9-3-2 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   (a)   There is hereby granted by the franchising authority to the grantee,
the right and privilege to construct, erect, operate, and maintain in, upon,
along, across, above, over, and under the streets, alleys, public ways, and
public places now laid out or dedicated, and all extensions thereof and
additions thereto, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and
other cable conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation
in the village of a cable communications system, to be used for the sale and
distribution of cable services to the residents of the village. This broadband
cable service shall include, but shall not be limited to, the carriage of
television and radio signals and any cablecasting programming.
   (b)   The grantee shall, at all times during the operation of this
franchise, be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power as may be
hereafter provided by the franchising authority.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2)
§ 9-3-3 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   (a)   The franchise is for the present territorial limits of the village and
for any area henceforth added thereto during the term of this franchise. Cable
service shall be made available to all buildings and residences in the village
which are connected, both presently and in the future, to the village sewer and
water system.
   (b)   Cable service shall be made available to the area currently within the
territorial limits of the village in accordance with the construction timetable
contained in §
9-3-6.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3)
§ 9-3-4 DURATION OF FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   The duration of the rights, privileges, and authorization hereby granted
shall be 15 years from the date the franchise is awarded. This franchise may be
renewed or extended by the franchising authority, upon application of the
grantee, in accordance with the then existing rules of the FCC and the
applicable law. Any renewal term of this franchise granted by the franchising
authority shall be for a period of 15 years. Renewal or extension of the
franchise shall be considered in full public proceeding affording due process,
during which the performance of the grantee and the adequacy of the franchise
ordinance will be reviewed. Nothing in this provision shall be construed to
require such renewal or extension.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 9-3-5 FRANCHISE EXCLUSIVITY.
   This franchise shall be a non-exclusive franchise.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5)
§ 9-3-6 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   Within 30 days of the granting of the franchise, the grantee shall apply for
all necessary permits, licenses, certificates, and authorizations. Turtle Lake
Cable Television agrees to complete substantial construction no later than
December 1, 1984. The route of the energized cable will have individual “drops”
as desired during the same period of time. The requirement of this provision
may be waived by the village only upon occurrence of unforeseen events or acts
of God.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6)
§ 9-3-7 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAWS.
   The grantee shall conform to all federal laws and regulations, and state
laws and regulations, regarding the cable communications as soon as practicable
after said laws and regulations become effective. The grantee shall also be
required to conform to all village ordinances as soon as practicable after they
become effective.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7)
§ 9-3-8 SALE OR TRANSFER OF THE FRANCHISE; SALE OR TRANSFER OF STOCK.
   (a)   Sale or transfer of this franchise or sale or transfer of stock so as
to create a new controlling interest is prohibited except upon the prior,
express written approval of the village, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
   (b)   Notwithstanding, the franchisee may pledge or mortgage this franchise
to a lending institution, group of investors, or other financial entity to
obtain funds required for the initial construction and completion of the cable
system.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8)
§ 9-3-9 RATE CHANGE PROCEDURE.
   (a)   The franchisee may request approval from the village of a rate
increase in the basic cable rate not more than once each year. However, no
change in the basic cable rates shall occur without the approval of the
village, and approval will not be granted unless a detailed, written petition
for rate increase is filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, at least 90 days prior to the proposed
effective date. A separate written notice advising that a petition for rate
increase has been filed shall be mailed to the Village President and to each of
the Village Trustees within five days of the filing of the said petition.
   (b)   The Village Board retains the right to act upon such request for an
increase in basic rates and no rate increase shall be granted except after a
public hearing. The petition for rate increase filed with the village shall
include a list of the other municipalities being served by the grantee and the
rates in effect in each one and the following reports which shall reflect the
operations of the village system only:
      (1)   Balance sheet;
      (2)   Income statement;
      (3)   Cash flow statement;
      (4)   Statement of sources and application of funds;
      (5)   Detailed supporting schedules of expenses, income, assets, and
other items as maybe required;
      (6)   Statement of current and projected subscribers and penetration; and
      (7)   Other reasonable information requested by the Village Board which
may relate to the necessity for the rate increase. Any documentation requested
by the village shall include sufficient detail as may be necessary to provide
the village with the information needed to make an accurate determination
concerning the financial condition of the grantee. All financial statements
shall be certified as accurate by an officer of the grantee.
   (c)   The criteria for the Village Board’s decision concerning rate
increases shall be the establishment of rates which are “fair and reasonable”
to both the grantee and its subscribers and said rates may be generally defined
as the minimum rates necessary to meet all applicable costs of service,
including fair return on all invested capital, assuming efficient and
economical management. In the event the Village Board takes no action
approving, denying, or adjusting the proposed rate increase within 90 days of
the submission to the village of the petition for a rate increase and notice
thereof, the proposed rate increase will go into effect automatically and shall
remain in effect as if the Village Board had approved the rate increase. Any
petition for rate increase and the notice to the Village President and Trustees
shall note in capital letters that the rate increase will be automatically
effective if no further action is taken by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-9)
§ 9-3-10 PAYMENT TO THE VILLAGE.
   (a)   For the use of the streets and other facilities of the village for the
operation of the cable communications systems, and for the supervision by the
franchising authority, the cable communication company shall owe to the
village, on December 31, 1989, and on every annual anniversary date thereafter
until the expiration of the franchise, a sum equal to 3% of the gross revenues
received by said company for the provision of basic cable service to the
subscribers within the village for that year. Said payment shall be due and
payable no later than 60 calendar days after the date owed. The cable
communication company shall provide to the village, along with said payment, an
accounting of the gross basic cable fees collected within the village for the
year in which a payment is made.
   (b)   The cable communication company shall provide a channel to the village
and to bona fide groups within the village for the broadcasting of public
notices and announcements or other programming of public interest.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-10)
§ 9-3-11 BROADBAND CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   The communications system permitted to be installed and operated hereunder
shall:
   (a)   Be operated in conformance with the ECG’s Technical Standards, 47
C.F.R. §§ 76.601 et seq.; and
   (b)   Carry on the system allowable broadcast signals pursuant to the FCC’s
signal carriage rules.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-11)
§ 9-3-12 USE OF THE STREETS.
   (a)   The grantee, whenever and wherever possible, shall lease, rent, or
otherwise lawfully obtain the use of poles, conduits, lines, cables, and other
equipments and facilities from other holders of public licenses and franchises
within the village limits, and will use such equipment and facilities whenever
possible for the installation of its cable.
   (b)   In case of disturbance of any street or paved area, the grantee shall,
at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the village, replace
and restore such street or paved area in as good a condition as before the work
involving such disturbance was done.
   (c)   If at any time during the period of the franchise, the village shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, the grantee upon
reasonable notice by the village shall remove, relay, and relocate its poles,
wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other fixtures at its own
expense.
   (d)   Any poles or other fixtures placed in or adjacent to any street by the
grantee shall be placed in such manner as to comply with all requirements of
the village.
   (e)   In all sections of the village where the cables, wires, or other like
facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the grantee shall place
its cables, wires, or other like facilities underground.
   (f)   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted or
upon its termination and cancellation, as provided for herein, the village
shall have the right to require the grantee to remove, at its own expense, all
portions of the cable television system from the streets of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-12)
§ 9-3-13 TRIMMING OF TREES.
   Nothing contained in this franchise shall be deemed to empower or authorize
the grantee to cut or trim any trees, ornamental or otherwise, in any of the
streets, alleys, or public highways, but the grantee may cut or trim trees as
necessary only pursuant to a prior agreement with the owner of the property
which is adjacent to the street area in which the tree stands. In the event
that an owner shall unreasonably refuse to permit the grantee to cut or trim
trees, the village may nonetheless authorize such work if it is necessary to
protect, repair, or maintain the system.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-13)
§ 9-3-14 RAISING OF WIRES TO PERMIT MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit issued by the village temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering
of the wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee
shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The grantee shall
be given not less than five days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary
wire changes.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-14)
§ 9-3-15 SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (a)   The grantee shall put, keep, and maintain all parts of the system in
good condition throughout the entire franchise period.
   (b)   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all its facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon the subscriber’s request.
   (c)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum system use.
   (d)   The grantee shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere
with television reception of persons not served by the grantee, or with the
operation of various utilities serving the residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-15)
§ 9-3-16 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (a)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, is designated by the Village Board as having primary
responsibility for the continuing administration of the franchise, and for
implementation of complaint procedures.
   (b)   The grantee shall maintain an office which shall be open during all
usual business hours, having a publicly-listed toll-free telephone and be so
operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received on a 24-hour basis.
   (c)   The grantee shall maintain a repair and maintenance crew capable of
responding to subscriber’s complaints or requests for service within 48 hours
after receipt of the complaint or request.
   (d)   The grantee shall establish procedures for receiving, acting upon, and
resolving subscriber complaints to the satisfaction of the Village Board. The
grantee shall furnish a notice of such procedures to each subscriber at the
time of initial subscription to the system.
   (e)   If a customer complaint is not resolved to the mutual satisfaction of
the customer or the grantee, either the customer or the grantee may request
that the matter be presented to the Village Board for a hearing and resolution.
   (f)   When there have been similar complaints made or when there exists
other evidence, which, in the judgment of the Village Board, casts doubt on the
reliability or quality of cable service, the Village Board shall have the right
and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze, and report on the
performance of the system. Such report shall be delivered to the Village Board
no later than 14 days after the Village Board formally notifies the grantee,
and shall include the following information: the nature of the complaints which
precipitated the special tests; what system component was tested; the equipment
used and procedures employed in such testing; the results of such tests; and
the method in which the complaints were resolved.
   (g)   The test and analysis should be supervised by a professional engineer
not on a permanent staff of the company who shall sign all records of the
special tests and forward to the Village Board such records with a report
interpreting the results of the tests and recommending actions to be taken by
the village. The grantee shall pay 50% of supervising engineer’s costs, and the
village shall pay the balance.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-16)
§ 9-3-17 RIGHT OF REVOCATION; MONETARY PENALTIES.
   (a)   The franchising authority shall have the right to rescind or revoke
the rights herein granted upon any violation by the grantee of any material
obligation or requirement contained herein, or upon the refusal to comply with
any reasonable request made by the Village Board concerning compliance with
this chapter, after written notice by the franchising authority to the grantee,
and continuation of such violation or refusal to comply by the grantee.
   (b)   Such written notice to the grantee shall specify precisely the manner
in which the grantee is in violation, with respect to the franchise. The notice
shall specify a reasonable amount of time within which the grantee must correct
the violation, but in no event shall the time period be less than 30 days from
the date of receipt of the notice to the grantee.
   (c)   If the grantee shall be adjudicated bankrupt or placed in
receivership, the village may by resolution declare the franchise herein
granted to be forfeited and terminated.
   (d)   The village reserves the right to levy fines upon the grantee in a
reasonable amount, not to exceed $50 per violation, for material breaches of
the franchise agreement. Failure to pay such fines shall be cause for
revocation of the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-17)
§ 9-3-18 PROTECTION TO SUBSCRIBERS AGAINST TWO-WAY.
   The grantee shall not allow or engage in any unauthorized two-way
communications or transmission. Violation of this section shall constitute the
basis for cancellation of this franchise.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-18)
§ 9-3-19 CABLE MAP ON FILE AT THE VILLAGE OFFICE.
   The grantee shall maintain, on file and readily available to the village, a
current cable map showing trunk and feeder cable routes throughout the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-19)
§ 9-3-20 LOCK OUT PROVISION AVAILABLE TO ALL.
   The grantee shall make available to all subscribers the option to install
lock out control devices for the converter unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-20)
§ 9-3-21 RESTRICTIONS ON SELLING AND SERVICING.
   The grantee shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in the business of
selling or servicing television sets, video recorders, and FM receivers.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-21)
§ 9-3-22 GRANTEE’S APPLICATION INCORPORATED.
   By its acceptance of the franchise, the grantee specifically understands and
agrees that its application is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part
of this chapter. In the event of a conflict between proposed services listed in
the application and the provisions of this chapter, the provision which
provides the greatest benefit to the village, in the opinion of the Village
Board, shall prevail. Failure to provide services as promised in the grantee’s
application as incorporated herein shall be deemed a breach of the chapter to
which the provisions of §
9-3-32 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-22)
§ 9-3-23 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (a)   It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the village and
any grantee hereunder that the grantee shall assume all legal responsibility
for and shall save the village and its agents and employees harmless from and
against all claims, damages, losses, and expenses, including attorney’s fees,
sustained by the village on account of any suit, judgment, execution,
infringement, or any other damages arising out of the installation, operation,
or maintenance of the cable system authorized herein, whether or not any act of
omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by this chapter
and any franchise granted hereunder.
   (b)   Prior to commencement of construction of the cable system, the grantee
shall file and maintain with the village at all times while the franchise is in
effect, liability insurance policies issued by a company authorized to do
business in the state. Said policies shall insure the village and the grantee
with respect to the installation, construction, maintenance, and operation of
the cable system, appurtenant devices thereto, and building connections
authorized by this chapter. Said coverage shall include property damage
liability insurance in the amount of $500,000 as to any one accident, personal
injury liability insurance to the extent of $100,000 as to any one person, and
$300,000 as to any one accident. The grantee shall also carry worker’s
compensation insurance upon its employees engaged in any manner in the
installation or servicing of its plant and equipment within the village in the
amount required by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-23)
§ 9-3-24 CHANNEL CAPACITY.
   The grantee shall construct a cable system with a channel capacity equal to
a minimum of 252 MHz of bandwidth (the equivalent of 42 television broadcast
channels).
(Prior Code, § 9-3-24)
§ 9-3-25 RATE AND SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED.
 
Signal Carriage
Basic Cable*
WEAU NBC Eau Claire $4.95/Month + Tax
WQOW ABC Eau Claire $4.95/Month + Tax
 
Signal Carriage
Signal Carriage
Public Access
KITN Independent                      Channel 29           $4.95/Month + Tax
KMSP                                  Minneapolis/St. Paul $4.95/Month + Tax
KSTP                                  Minneapolis/St. Paul $4.95/Month + Tax
KTCA                                  Minneapolis/St. Paul $4.95/Month + Tax
WCCO                                  Minneapolis/St. Paul $4.95/Month + Tax
WTCN                                  Minneapolis/St. Paul $4.95/Month + Tax
Satellite Cable
Cable News Network (CNN)                                  $7.95
Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN)                      $7.95
Entertainment/Sports/Program Network                      $7.95
(ESPN)
Lifetime                                                  $7.95
Music TV (MTV)                                            $7.95
Nickelodeon                                               $7.95
Nashville                                                 $7.95
USA Network                                               $7.95
WOR (Network)                                             $7.95
WTBS (Atlanta)                                            $7.95
Movie Channels
Disney Channel                                            $9.95
Home Box Office (HBO)                                     $9.95
The Movie Channel                                         $9.95
Installation**
Disconnect                                                No charge
Extra Outlets                                             $8.95
 
 
Signal Carriage
Public Access
First      $20
Outlet
Reconnect  $12.95
Notes to Table:
*Depending upon FCC “must carry” rules, some signals may be added or deleted
prior to turn-on upon approval of village.
**During the first 90 days after the system turn-on, there will be no charge
for installation of the first outlet.
The grantee reserves the right to “package” programming as deemed necessary
for marketing purposes. “Packaging” may or may not reduce aggregate monthly
amounts for services.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-3-25)
§ 9-3-26 PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   The grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service, service facilities,
rules, regulations, employment, or in any other respect, make or grant any
undue preference or advantage to any party, nor shall the grantee subject any
party to any prejudice or disadvantage.   
(Prior Code, § 9-3-26)
§ 9-3-27 ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (a)   The grantee shall make available access channels as provided in this
section.
   (b)   The grantee shall provide to each of its subscribers who receive any
part of the services offered on the system, reception on at least one specially
designated public access channel available for use by the general public, on a
first-come, first-served nondiscriminatory basis, for use by local educational
authorities, government, and other commercial users. The VHF spectrum shall be
used for this specially designated access channel. Charges for production costs
and any fees which may be imposed shall be consistent with the goal of
providing to the public and for use by the local government a low cost means of
television access.
   (c)   Whenever the specially designated access channel is in use 80% of the
time and there is demand for use of an additional channel for the same purpose,
the grantee shall then have a period of six months within which to provide a
new specially designated access channel for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-27)
§ 9-3-28 EXTENSIONS OF SYSTEM.
   (a)   The grantee shall extend basic CATV service to any isolated residence
outside the initial service territory at the standard installation charge if:
      (1)   The resident requests the service extension; and
      (2)   The service connection to the isolated residence would require no
more than a 250-foot underground trench from an existing trunk cable. The
grantee shall extend basic CATV service to any isolated residence requiring
more than a 250, but not to exceed 600, foot aerial dropline or underground
trench from an existing trunk cable at a premium charge. The premium
installation charge shall be the standard charge plus the actual cost to the
grantee for the distance in excess of 250 feet. The grantee may require advance
payment of the premium installation charge.
   (b)   The grantee shall replace existing aerial facilities with underground
facilities concurrently and in cooperation with similar programs undertaken
with respect to telephone and power utilities. When undergrounding is required,
the grantee shall have the option of sharing or not sharing utility trenches.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-28)
§ 9-3-29 TRANSMISSIONS.
   The grantee may transmit any date, information, and/or programs and
originate advertising to the extent permitted by the Federal Communications
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-29)
§ 9-3-30 SECURITY FUND AND PENALTY.
   Within seven days after the date of the grant of this franchise by the
village, the grantee shall deposit into a bank account in the name of the
village, and maintain on deposit until completion of system construction as
determined by the village, the sum of $1,000 as security for the faithful
performance by it of all the provisions of this franchise, and compliance with
all orders, permits, and directions of the village and the payment by
franchisee of any claim, liens, and taxes due the village which arise by reason
of the construction, operation, or maintenance of the system. Interest accrued
on this deposit shall be returned to the grantee if no penalties have been
assessed. Provisions shall be made to permit the administrator designated in
this franchise to withdraw funds from the security fund. The grantee shall not
use the security fund for other purposes, and shall not assign, pledge, or
otherwise use this security fund as security for any other purpose. The grantee
shall receive 30 days written notice to correct any problem or institute an
appeal before any funds can be withdrawn from this account.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-30)
§ 9-3-31 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS OR MODIFICATIONS.
   (a)   No person, without the express consent of the grantee, shall make,
possess, use, or allow to be used any connection, extension, or division,
whether accomplished physically, acoustically, inductively, electronically, or
otherwise, with or to any segment of the grantee’s cable television
distribution system, for any purpose whatsoever.
   (b)   No person shall willfully interfere or tamper with, obstruct, or
damage any part, segment, section, cable, wire, or device associated with the
grantee’s cable television distribution system. No person shall attach any
unauthorized device to any part, segment, section, cable, wire, or other device
associated with the grantee’s cable television distribution system.
   (c)   No person shall possess, use, sell, lease, rent, or in any way make
available to others, any of the grantee’s pay television programming, without
the grantee’s express authorization.
   (d)   No person, without claim of right, shall intentionally interrupt a
service of the grantee’s cable television distribution system.
   (e)   A person may be penalized separately as set forth below for each
offense listed at subsections (a) through (d) above. An offense shall be
considered to be a separate offense for each 24-hour period during which it
continues after discovery thereof and notification to the violator.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-31)
§ 9-3-32 PENALTY PROVISIONS.
   (a)   General penalty. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter for which a penalty is not provided elsewhere in this chapter
shall, upon conviction of such violation, be subject to a civil forfeiture
which shall be as follows.
      (1)   First offense; penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this chapter subject to a penalty shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit
not more than $500 for each violation, together with a penalty assessment and
the costs of prosecution.
      (2)   Second offense; penalty. Any person found guilty of violating any
chapter or part of this chapter who shall previously have been convicted of the
same violation within one year shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less
than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each such offense, together with a penalty
assessment and the costs of prosecution.
      (3)   Costs. Any person found guilty of violating any part of this
chapter may also be required to pay the costs to repair any damage caused by
said violation.
   (b)   Continued violations. Each violation and each day a violation
continues or occurs shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing in this
chapter shall preclude the village from maintaining any appropriate action to
prevent or remove a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (c)   Complaints. Any complaint alleging a violation of this chapter shall
specify:
      (1)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
      (2)   The time and place of the alleged violation;
      (3)   The section of the chapter violated; and
      (4)   A statement of the facts and circumstances constituting the alleged
violation which is sufficiently detailed so that the existence of the violation
is clearly set forth.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-32)
TITLE 10: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapter
   
1.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
   
2.   BICYCLES AND PLAY VEHICLES
   
3.   SNOWMOBILES
   
4.   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND OFF-ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION
   
5.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
Article A: General Provisions
   
10-1-1   State traffic laws adopted
   
10-1-2   State administrative code provisions adopted
   
10-1-3   Official traffic signs and control devices; prohibited signs, signals,
and markers
   
10-1-4   Registration record of vehicle as evidence
   
10-1-5   School bus warning lights
   
10-1-6   Blue warning lights on police vehicles
   10-1-7 through 10-1-9   Reserved for future use
Article B: Street Traffic Regulations
   
10-1-10   Operators to obey traffic control devices
   
10-1-11   Speed limits
   10-1-12 through 10-1-19   Reserved for future use
Article C: Parking Regulations
   
10-1-20   Restrictions on parking; posted limitations
   
10-1-21   Parking restrictions during street maintenance or temporary snow
removal
   
10-1-22   Stopping or parking prohibited in certain specified places
   
10-1-23   Parking reserved for vehicles of disabled
   
10-1-24   Leaving keys in vehicle prohibited; parking vehicles with motor
running
   
10-1-25   Unattended motorized machinery
   
10-1-26   Angle parking
   
10-1-27   Winter parking regulations
   
10-1-28   Parking of trucks and trailers restricted
   
10-1-29   Unlawful removal of parking citations
   
10-1-30   Operation of motor vehicles in public parking lots
   
10-1-31   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
10-1-32   Inoperable, wrecked, or discarded vehicles
   
10-1-33   Traffic and parking regulations on school district grounds
   10-1-34 through 10-1-39   Reserved for future use
Article D: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
10-1-40   Disturbance of the peace with a motor vehicle
   
10-1-41   Pedestrian regulations
   
10-1-42   Motor vehicles on pedestrian ways and overpasses
   
10-1-43   School crossing guards
   
10-1-44   Driving over curbing or safety islands prohibited
   10-1-45 through 10-1-49   Reserved for future use
Article E: Enforcement and Penalties
   
10-1-50   Penalties
   
10-1-51   Enforcement
ARTICLE A: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10-1-1 STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED.
   (a)   Statutes adopted. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
code, the statutory provisions in Wis. Stats. Chapters 110, 194, and 340
through 349, describing and defining regulations with respect to vehicles and
traffic, for which the penalty is a forfeiture only, exclusive of any
regulations for which the statutory penalty is a fine or term of imprisonment
or exclusively state charges, are hereby adopted and by reference made a part
of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. The statutory sections listed
shall be designated as part of this code by adding the prefix “10-1-” to each
statute section number. Any act required to be performed or prohibited by any
regulation incorporated herein by reference is required or prohibited by this
chapter. Any future amendments, revisions, or modifications of the statutory
regulations in Wis. Stats. Chapters 340 through 349 incorporated herein are
intended to be made part of this chapter in order to secure to the extent
legally practicable uniform statewide regulation of vehicle traffic on the
highways, streets, and alleys of the state. Any person who shall, within the
village, violate any provisions of any statute incorporated herein by reference
shall be deemed guilty of an offense under this section.
   (b)   Other state laws adopted. There are also hereby adopted by reference
the following sections of the state statutes, but the prosecution of such
offenses under this chapter shall be as provided in Wis. Stats. Chapters 340
through 349, and the penalty for violation thereof shall be limited to a
forfeiture as hereinafter provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Wis. Stats. § 941.01, “Negligent Operation of Vehicle Off Highway.”
      (2)   Wis. Stats. Chapter 941.03, “Highway Obstruction.”
      (3)   Wis. Stats. § 943.11, “Entry into Locked Vehicle.”
      (4)   Wis. Stats. § 943.23, “Operating Motor Vehicles Without Owner’s
Consent.”
      (5)   Wis. Stats. Chapter 947.045, “Drinking in Motor Vehicle on
Highway.”
   (c)   Statutes specifically incorporated by reference. Whenever this chapter
incorporates by reference specific sections of the state statutes, such
references shall mean the Wisconsin Statutes of 2021-2022 as from time to time
amended, repealed, or modified by the state legislature.
   (d)   General references. General references in this chapter to state
statutory sections or chapters describing or defining procedures or authority
for enactment or enforcement of local traffic regulations shall be deemed to
refer to the most recent enactments of the state legislature describing or
defining such procedures or authorities.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 10-1-2 STATE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   (a)   Administrative regulations adopted. The following administrative rules
and regulations adopted by the Secretary of the State Department of
Transportation and published in the Wisconsin Administrative Code, exclusive of
any provisions therein relating to the penalties to be imposed, are hereby
adopted by reference and made part of this chapter as if fully set forth
herein.
      (1)   Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter Trans. 305, “Standards for Motor Vehicle
Equipment.”
      (2)   Wis. Admin. Code, Trans. Chapter 327, “Transportation of Explosives
by Motor Vehicle.”
      (3)   Wis. Admin. Code, Trans. Chapter 152, “Leasing of Vehicles by
Private Carriers.”
      (4)   Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter Trans. 305, “Protective Headgear
Standards and Specifications.”
      (5)   Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter Trans. 304, “Standards and Specifications
- Design and Mounting SMV Emblem.”
      (6)   Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter Trans. 305, “Standards for Vehicle
Equipment.”
   (b)   Noncompliance prohibited. No person shall operate or allow to be
operated on any highway, street, or alley within the village a vehicle that is
not in conformity with the requirements of subsection (a) above or the
provisions of Wis. Stats. § 110.075 and Chapter 347, incorporated by reference
in §
10-1-1.
   (c)   Safety checks.
      (1)   Operators to submit to inspection. When directed to do so by any
law enforcement officer, the operator of any motor vehicle shall stop and
submit such vehicle to an inspection and such tests as are necessary to
determine whether the vehicle meets the requirements of this section, or that
the vehicle’s equipment is in proper adjustment or repair. No person, when
operating a motor vehicle, shall fail to stop and submit such vehicle to
inspection when directed to do so by any law enforcement officer as herein
provided.
      (2)   Authority of officer. Any law enforcement officer is hereby
empowered whenever he or she shall have reason to believe that any provision of
this section is being violated to order the operator of the vehicle to stop and
to submit such vehicle to an inspection with respect to brakes, lights, turn
signals, steering, horns and warning devices, glass, mirrors, exhaust systems,
windshield wipers, tires, and other items of equipment.
      (3)   Vehicle to be removed from highway. Whenever, after inspection as
provided by this section, a law enforcement officer determines that a vehicle
is unsafe for operation, he or she may order it removed from the highway and
not operated, except for purposes of removal and repair, until the vehicle has
been repaired as directed in a repair order. Repair orders may be in the form
prescribed by the Secretary of the Department of Transportation under Wis.
Stats. § 110.075(5), and shall require the vehicle owner or operator to cause
the repairs to be made, and return evidence of compliance with the repair order
to the department of the issuing officer within the time specified in the
order.
   (d)   Penalty.
      (1)   Penalty for violation of any provision of this section, including
the provisions of the Wisconsin Administrative Code, incorporated herein by
reference, shall be as provided in §
10-1-50, together with the costs of prosecution and applicable penalty
assessment.
      (2)   The Administrative Code sections adopted by reference in subsection
(a) above shall be designated as part of this code by adding the prefix “10-1-”
to each statute or Administrative Code section number.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 10-1-3 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS AND CONTROL DEVICES; PROHIBITED SIGNS, SIGNALS,
AND MARKERS.
   (a)   Duty of Director of Public Works to erect and install uniform traffic
control devices. Whenever traffic regulations created by this chapter,
including a state traffic regulation adopted by reference in §
10-1-1, require the erection of traffic control devices for enforcement, the
Director of Public Works shall procure, erect, and maintain uniform traffic
control devices conforming to the Uniform Traffic Control Device Manual
promulgated by the State Department of Transportation, giving notice of such
traffic regulation to the users of the streets and highways on which such
regulations apply. Whenever state law grants discretion to local authorities in
erecting or placement of a uniform traffic control device, devices shall be
erected in such locations and in such a manner as, in the judgment of the
Director of Public Works, will carry out the purposes of this chapter and give
adequate warning to users of the streets and highways of the village.
   (b)   Code numbers to be affixed to official traffic control devices. The
Director of Public Works shall cause to be placed on each official traffic
control sign a guide board, mile post, signal, or marker erected under
subsection (a) above, a code number assigned by the State Department of
Transportation, and shall also place or direct the placing of code numbers on
all existing official traffic control devices as required by the laws of the
state.
   (c)   Prohibited signs and markers in highways. No person other than an
officer authorized by this chapter to erect and maintain official traffic
control devices, or his or her designee, shall place within the limits of any
street or highway maintained by the village any sign, signal, marker, mark, or
monument unless permission is first obtained from the Director of Public Works
or, where applicable, the State Highway Commission. Any sign, signal, marker,
mark, or monument placed or maintained in violation of this subsection (c)
shall be subject to removal as provided in subsection (d) below.
   (d)   Removal of unofficial signs, markers, signals, and traffic control
devices.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works may remove any sign, signal, marking,
or other device which is placed, maintained, or displayed in violation of this
chapter or state law.
      (2)   Any charge imposed against premises for removal of a prohibited or
illegal sign, signal, marking, or device shall be reported by the Director of
Public Works to the Village Board for review and certification at its next
regular meeting following the imposition of the charge. Any charge not paid on
or before the next succeeding November 15 shall be placed upon the tax roll for
collection as other special municipal taxes.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 346.41 and Chapter 349.09
§ 10-1-4 REGISTRATION RECORD OF VEHICLE AS EVIDENCE.
   When any vehicle is found upon a street or highway in violation of any
provision of this chapter regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles and the identity of the operator cannot be determined, the owner, as
shown by the ownership registration of the vehicle supplied by the State
Department of Transportation, or a comparable authority of any other state,
shall be deemed to have committed the violation for purposes of enforcement of
this chapter and specifically §
10-1-1 and shall be subject to the applicable forfeiture penalty; provided the
defenses defined and described in Wis. Stats. § 346.485(5)(b), shall be a
defense for an owner charged with such violation.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
§ 10-1-5 SCHOOL BUS WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 346.48(2)(b)2.,
adopted by reference in §
10-1-1 to the contrary and except as provided in subsection (b) below, school
bus operators shall use flashing red warning lights in residential and business
districts when pupils or other authorized passengers are to be loaded or
unloaded at locations at which there are no crosswalk or traffic signals so
that pupils must cross the street or highway before being loaded or after being
unloaded.
      (2)   The operator of a school bus equipped with flashing red warning
lights shall actuate such lights at least 100 feet before stopping to load or
unload pupils or other authorized passengers, and shall not extinguish such
lights until loading or unloading is completed and persons who must cross the
street or highway are safely across.
      (3)   The operator of a school bus shall use the flashing red warning
lights when loading or unloading passengers from either side where the curb and
sidewalk are laid on one side of the road only.
      (4)   The operator of a school bus shall use the flashing red warning
lights when loading or unloading passengers in a residential or business
district when the passengers are to be loaded or unloaded at a location at
which there are:
         a.   No traffic signals;
         b.   Sidewalk and curb are laid on both sides of the street or
highway; and
         c.   Such persons must cross the street or highway before being loaded
or after being unloaded.
      (5)   The operator of a motor vehicle which approaches from the front or
rear of any school bus which has stopped on a street or highway when the bus is
displaying flashing red warning lights shall stop the vehicle not less than 20
feet from the bus, and shall remain stopped until the bus resumes motion or the
operator extinguishes the flashing red warning lights. The operator of a school
bus, which approaches the front or rear of another school bus that has stopped
and is displaying red warning lights, shall stop not less than 20 feet from the
other bus, display its red warning lights, and remain stopped with red warning
lights actuated until the other bus resumes motion or the other operator
extinguishes the flashing red warning lights.
   (b)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 349.21(2), the use of flashing red warning
lights by school bus operators is prohibited when pupils or other authorized
passengers are loaded or unloaded directly from or onto the school grounds or
that portion of a right-of-way between the roadway and the school grounds
designated by “school” warning signs as provided in Wis. Stats. § 118.08(1).
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5)
§ 10-1-6 BLUE WARNING LIGHTS ON POLICE VEHICLES.
   (a)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. §§ 346.03(3), 346.94(14), 346.95(3), and
347.25(1), (1m)(a) and (b), and (4), a marked police vehicle under Wis. Stats.
§ 340.01(3)(a) may be equipped with a blue light and a red light which flash,
oscillate, or rotate.
   (b)   (1)   If the vehicle is so equipped, the lights shall be illuminated
when the operator of the police vehicle is exercising the privileges granted
under Wis. Stats. § 346.03. The blue light shall be mounted on the passenger
side of the vehicle and the red light shall be mounted on the driver side of
the vehicle. The lights shall be designed and mounted so as to be plainly
visible and understandable from a distance of 500 feet during normal sunlight
and during hours of darkness.
      (2)   No operator of a police vehicle may use the warning lights except
when responding to an emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law, when responding to but not upon returning from a
fire alarm or when necessarily parked on a highway in a position which is
likely to be hazardous to traffic using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6)
§§ 10-1-7 THROUGH 10-1-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE B: STREET TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 10-1-10 OPERATORS TO OBEY TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   Every operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection at which an
official traffic control device is erected in accordance with this chapter
shall obey the direction of such official traffic control device as required by
the state statutes incorporated by reference in §
10-1-1.
   (b)   Operators of vehicles approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering a highway as required by Wis. Stats. § 346.46. Operators approaching
intersections at which a yield sign has been installed shall yield the right-
of-way to other vehicles as required by Wis. Stats. § 346.18(6).
(Prior Code, § 10-1-10)
§ 10-1-11 SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   State limits adopted. The provisions of Wis. Stats. §§ 346.57, 346.58,
and 346.59 relating to the maximum and minimum speed of vehicles are hereby
adopted, except as provided in subsection (b) below.
   (b)   Limits modified. Speed limits shall be reduced according to posted
limits in school zones.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-11)
§§ 10-1-12 THROUGH 10-1-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE C: PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 10-1-20 RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING; POSTED LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Forty-eight hour limitation. No person, firm, or corporation shall
park or leave standing any automobile, truck, tractor, trailer, or vehicle of
any description on any public streets or public parking lots in the village for
a period of 48 or more consecutive hours in the same location at any time,
except that where more restrictive parking limits have been established, the
more restrictive limits shall apply. When any law enforcement officer shall
find a vehicle standing upon a public street or parking lot in violation of the
provisions of this section, he or she is authorized to move such a vehicle or
to require the operator in charge thereof to move such vehicle to a position
permitted under this chapter. The law enforcement officer may cause said
vehicle to be removed to a proper impoundment and storage area within the
village where storage space is available and in such case the owner shall pay
the costs of removing said vehicle and the storage fees on said vehicle before
he may recover the possession thereof.
   (b)   Posted limitations.
      (1)   The Village Board may designate certain streets or portions of
streets as no parking or no stopping or standing zones or as zones for parking
by physically handicapped persons, and may limit the hours in which the
restrictions apply. The village shall mark, by appropriate signs, each zone so
designated in accordance with the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 349.13.
      (2)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device,
no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an established no stopping or
standing zone when stopping or standing is prohibited. No vehicle shall be
parked in a no parking zone during hours when parking is prohibited except
physicians on emergency calls or as permitted by state law or elsewhere by this
code of ordinances.
      (3)   The Village Board is hereby granted the authority, within the
reasonable exercise of police power to prohibit, limit the time, or otherwise
restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles beyond the provisions
of Wis. Stats. Chapter 346. The Village Board shall have the authority to
restrict the turning or movement of heavy traffic and to impose special weight
limitations on any highway or portions thereof which, because of the weakness
of the roadbed due to deterioration or climatic conditions or other special or
temporary conditions, would likely be seriously damaged or destroyed in the
absence of any restrictions on heavy traffic movement or special weight
limitations.
      (4)   No prohibition, restriction, or limitation on parking or
restriction on movement or turning of heavy traffic and imposition of special
weight limits is effective unless official traffic control devices have been
placed or erected indicating the particular prohibition, restriction, or
limitation.
      (5)   After the parking limitations on any given street have expired, any
change of location of not more than one stall following expiration of the
parking period allowed shall be and constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-20)
§ 10-1-21 PARKING RESTRICTIONS DURING STREET MAINTENANCE OR TEMPORARY SNOW
REMOVAL.
   (a)   Street maintenance. Whenever it is necessary to clear or repair a
village roadway or any part thereof, the Director of Public Works or Police
Department shall post such highways or parts thereof with signs bearing the
words “No Parking - Street Maintenance Work.” Such signs shall be erected at
least two hours prior to the time that street maintenance work is to be
commenced. No person shall park a motor vehicle in violation of such signs.
   (b)   Temporary parking restrictions for special events. Pursuant to the
provisions of Wis. Stats. § 349.13, the Director of Public Works or Police
Department is authorized to direct that temporary “No Parking” signs be erected
during parades, festivals, and other authorized events that require the
regulating of vehicle stopping, standing, or parking on village roadways. The
temporary regulation shall be limited to the time the event exists or is likely
to exist.
   (c)   Parking during snow removal. No person shall park, place, or leave
standing any automobile, truck, or other vehicle on any street or public way
after one hour from the time such area has been designated and marked with
signs or barriers by the Director of Public Works or Police Department
indicating no parking due to snow removal.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-21)
§ 10-1-22 STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (a)   Parking prohibited at all times. Except temporarily for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading or in receiving or
discharging passengers or property and while the vehicle is attended by a
licensed operator so that it may be moved promptly in case of an emergency or
to avoid obstruction of traffic, no person shall at any time park or leave
standing any vehicle:
      (1)   Within an intersection;
      (2)   On a crosswalk;
      (3)   On a sidewalk or terrace area, except when parking in such place is
clearly indicated by official traffic signs or markers or parking meters.
TERRACE OR SIDEWALK AREA means that area between the sidewalk and the nearest
curb line running parallel or generally parallel thereto or in the absence of a
sidewalk ten feet beyond the curb line;
      (4)   Alongside or opposite any highway excavation or obstruction when
such stopping or standing would obstruct traffic or when pedestrian traffic
would be required to travel in the roadway;
      (5)   On the roadway side of any parked vehicle unless double parking is
clearly indicated by official traffic signs or markers;
      (6)   Within a fire lane consisting of either the driveway between the
front doors of a fire station and the public street or in such places properly
designated and marked as fire lanes ordered by the Fire Chief;
      (7)   Upon any portion of a highway where and at the time when stopping
or standing is prohibited by official traffic signs indicating the prohibition
of any stopping or standing;
      (8)   In any place or manner so as to obstruct, block, or impede traffic;
      (9)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant, unless a greater distance is
indicated by an official traffic sign;
      (10)   Upon any portion of a highway where and at the time when parking
is prohibited, limited, or restricted by official traffic signs;
      (11)   Upon any bridge;
      (12)   Upon any street or highway within the village limits any vehicle
which faces a direction different from the direction of normal traffic flow for
the lane of traffic in which said vehicle is stopped or standing;
      (13)   Upon any terrace or sidewalk in the village at any time;
      (14)   In a loading zoning;
      (15)   Within six feet of the entrance to an alley, private road, or
driveway; and
      (16)   In any municipal park when said park is closed to the public.
   (b)   Parking in driveways. No person shall park or leave standing any motor
vehicle in any private driveway without the permission of the owner or lessee
of the property which such driveway is located, whether or not such driveway is
posted to limit or restrict parking.
   (c)   Vehicles not to block private drive, alley, or fire lane. No vehicle
shall, at any time, be parked so as to unreasonably restrict the normal access
to any private drive, alley, or fire lane. Said access shall be deemed to be
unreasonably restricted if any vehicle is parked within four feet of either
side of said access. Upon discovery by a law enforcement officer or upon
complaint by the owner of any such blocked drive, alley, or fire lane, the law
enforcement officers or other designated village official may order said
vehicle towed from such position at the risk and expense of the owner of said
vehicle.
   (d)   Parking vehicle for repair or to display for sale prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any street, alley,
public right-of-way, or municipal parking lot in the village for the purpose of
repairing said vehicle or to display such vehicle for sale. No person shall
park on any street or avenue any vehicles for the primary purpose of
advertising.
      (2)   No person other than an owner and/or operator of a business located
on commercial-zoned property engaged in the regular business of selling
vehicles may display a vehicle for sale upon private premises unless the
following conditions are met.
         a.   Consent to display the vehicle has been given by the owner or
lessee of the premises.
         b.   The owner of the vehicle is on the premises or resides there.
         c.   The vehicle displayed for sale is parked entirely on the
premises.
         d.   The premises contains only one vehicle displayed for sale.
         e.   The advertisement or sign for sale of the vehicle is not larger
than two square feet.
         f.   The vehicle is parked a minimum of ten feet from property lines
and the applicable zoning district’s front yard setback.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-22)
§ 10-1-23 PARKING RESERVED FOR VEHICLES OF DISABLED.
   When official traffic signs indicating such restriction have been erected in
accordance with §
10-1-3, no person shall park, stop, or leave standing any vehicle upon any
portion of a street, highway, or public or private parking facility reserved
for vehicles displaying special registration plates or identification cards or
emblems issued by the State Department of Transportation or, for vehicles
registered in another jurisdiction, by such other jurisdiction designating the
vehicle as one used by a physically disabled person.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-23)
§ 10-1-24 LEAVING KEYS IN VEHICLE PROHIBITED; PARKING VEHICLES WITH MOTOR
RUNNING.
   (a)   Leaving keys in vehicle. No person shall permit any motor vehicle to
stand or remain unattended on any street, alley, or other public area, except
an attended parking area, unless either the starting lever, throttle, steering
apparatus, gear shift, or ignition of the vehicle is locked and the key for
such lock is removed from the vehicle. Whenever any law enforcement officer
shall find any vehicle standing with the key in the ignition in violation of
this section, such officer may issue a citation and is authorized to remove
such key from the vehicle.
   (b)   Parking vehicles with motor running. No person shall park or leave
standing any motor vehicle with the motor or refrigerator unit running for more
than 30 minutes within 300 feet of any residence within the village between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-24)
§ 10-1-25 UNATTENDED MOTORIZED MACHINERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit any
construction, compaction, earth-grading, or farm machinery which is self-
propelled and moves upon the surface of the earth and which is owned or
controlled by him or her to stand for any period of time unattended without
locking the ignition system or otherwise rendering said machinery inoperable so
as to prevent any person unauthorized by the owner or individual in control
thereof from starting said machinery.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-25)
§ 10-1-26 ANGLE PARKING.
   (a)   Angle parking or parking diagonally is prohibited on all the streets,
alleys, and highways of the village except as provided herein. All vehicles
shall park parallel to, and within one foot of, the curb except where streets
and parking lots are so marked for angle parking.
   (b)   No person shall at any time park any vehicle:
      (1)   In any direction other than the designated parking angle, where
angle parking spaces are so designated and provided by appropriate markings;
      (2)   Backwards into angle parking spaces so designated and provided by
appropriate markings; and/or
      (3)   With a trailer attached or any vehicle longer than 20 feet on any
street where angle parking is so provided and allowed.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-26)
§ 10-1-27 WINTER PARKING REGULATIONS.
   When signs have been erected at or reasonably near the corporate limits of
the village, as provided in Wis. Stats. § 349.13, no person shall park any
vehicle between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day from November
15 through April 1, unless permission is given by the Police Department for a
valid reason.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-27)
§ 10-1-28 PARKING OF TRUCKS AND TRAILERS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Street parking.
      (1)   No person owning or having control of any truck, trailer, truck
power unit, tractor, bus, or recreation vehicle, or combination of vehicles
weighing in excess of 12,000 pounds gross weight, or over 16 feet in length
(including accessories, racks, or other physical extensions, or having a height
of more than eight feet from the roadway, shall park the same upon any street,
avenue, or public way in the village in areas zoned residential or primarily
residential in nature.
      (2)   The provisions of this subsection (a) shall not be deemed to
prohibit the temporary parking of such equipment for up to two hours or the
lawful temporary parking of such equipment upon any street, avenue, or public
way in the village for the actual loading or unloading of goods, wares, or
merchandise, providing, however, the “loading” and “unloading,” as used in this
section, shall be limited to the actual time consumed in such operation. The
Village Board may, however, designate specific truck parking zones. The Chief
of Police may authorize short-term temporary parking under unusual
circumstances.
   (b)   Removal. Any vehicle unlawfully parked under subsection (a) above may
be removed from the street by order of a law enforcement officer, pursuant to §
10-1-31, and the expense of so moving and storing such vehicle shall be paid by
the operator or owner of said vehicle as a forfeiture in addition to the
penalties hereafter prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-28)
Cross-reference:
   Leaving keys in vehicle with motor running, see §
10-1-24(b)
§ 10-1-29 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF PARKING CITATIONS.
   No person other than the owner or operator thereof shall remove a village
parking ticket from a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-29)
§ 10-1-30 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES IN PUBLIC PARKING LOTS.
   (a)   Unlicensed operators prohibited. No person who does not hold a valid
operator’s license shall operate a vehicle in any public parking lot or ramp or
in any private parking lot or ramp held out for the use of parking for the
general public.
   (b)   Traffic regulations applicable. All provisions of §
10-1-1 and of the state statutes and laws incorporated herein by reference
shall be applicable on any public parking lot or ramp and on any private
parking lot, road, or ramp held out for use for the general public for parking
or vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-30)
§ 10-1-31 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Hazard to public safety. Any vehicle parked, stopped, or standing upon
a highway or public parking lot or ramp in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter is declared to be a hazard to traffic and public safety.
   (b)   Removal by operator. Such vehicle shall be removed by the operator in
charge, upon request of any law enforcement officer, to a position where
parking is permitted or to a private or public parking or storage premises.
   (c)   Removal by traffic officer. Any law enforcement officer, after issuing
a citation for illegal parking, stopping, or standing of an unattended vehicle
in violation of this chapter, is authorized to remove such vehicle to a
position where parking is permitted.
   (d)   Removal by private service. The officer may order a motor carrier
holding a permit to perform vehicle towing services, a licensed motor vehicle
salvage dealer, or a licensed motor vehicle dealer who performs vehicle towing
services to remove and store such vehicle in any public storage garage or
rental parking grounds, or any facility of the person providing the towing
services.
   (e)   Towing and storage charges.
      (1)   In addition to other penalties provided in this chapter, the owner
or operator of a vehicle so removed shall pay the actual cost of moving,
towing, and storage.
      (2)   If the vehicle is towed or stored by a private motor carrier, motor
vehicle salvage dealer, or licensed motor vehicle dealer, actual charges
regularly paid for such services shall be paid. If the vehicle is stored in a
public storage garage or rental facility, customary charges for such storage
shall be paid. Upon payment, a receipt shall be issued to the owner of the
vehicle for the towing or storage charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-31)
§ 10-1-32 INOPERABLE, WRECKED, OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Storage prohibited.
      (1)   No person owning or having custody of any partially dismantled,
nonoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to remain on any public street or highway, parking lot, or ramp longer
than 48 hours after notification thereof from a law enforcement officer.
      (2)   Notification shall be accomplished by placing in a conspicuous
place on the vehicle and by mailing or serving upon the owner or occupant in
charge of the premises a written notice setting forth briefly the applicable
provisions of this section and the date of the notice. Any vehicle so tagged
which is not removed within 48 hours after notice is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be removed as provided in §
10-1-31.
   (b)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to a motor vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
authorized by the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-32)
Cross-reference:
   School bus warning lights, see §
10-1-5
§ 10-1-33 TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS ON SCHOOL DISTRICT GROUNDS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 118.105, the following
regulations shall apply to the grounds of the Public School District located
within the village.
   (a)   Parking. No person shall park any vehicle in any vehicular traveling
area or parking area of the School District, except in conformity with posted
parking regulations set forth for such vehicular travel and parking areas.
   (b)   Speed limits. No person shall, at any time, operate a motor vehicle
upon any School District grounds at a speed in excess of ten miles per hour.
   (c)   Vehicles prohibited at specified times. No person shall, at any time,
operate a motor vehicle other than a school bus or emergency vehicle, in or
upon any drive designated for buses only during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00
a.m., and during the hours of 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. on any weekday during the
months school is in session.
   (d)   State traffic forfeiture laws adopted. All provisions of Wis. Stats.
Chapters 340 to 349 describing and defining regulations with respect to
vehicles and traffic for which the penalty is a forfeiture only, including
penalties to be imposed and procedures for prosecution, are hereby adopted and
by reference made a part of this section as if fully set forth herein. Such
statutory sections shall be designated as part of this code by adding the
prefix “10-1-34-” to each state statute section number. Any act required to be
performed or prohibited by any statute incorporated herein by reference is
required or prohibited by this section.
   (e)   Miscellaneous rules.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on such school premises at
a rapid or sudden acceleration with the intent of squealing tires or leaving
tire marks.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on such premises across
parking lot islands or parking lot dividers.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-33)
§§ 10-1-34 THROUGH 10-1-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE D: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 10-1-40 DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE WITH A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Unnecessary noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motor vehicle in such a manner which shall make or cause to be made
any loud, disturbing, or unnecessary sounds or noises such as may tend to annoy
or disturb another in or about any public or private area in the village.
   (b)   Unnecessary smoke prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motor vehicle in such a manner which shall make or cause to be made
any smoke, gases, or odors which are disagreeable, foul, or otherwise offensive
which may tend to annoy or disturb another in or about any public or private
area in the village.
   (c)   Unnecessary acceleration and display of power prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle, including motorcycles, all-
terrain vehicles, and bicycles, in such a manner as to cause, by excessive and
unnecessary acceleration, the tires of such vehicle or cycle to spin or emit
loud noises or to unnecessarily throw stones or gravel; nor shall such driver
cause to be made by excessive and unnecessary acceleration any loud noise as
would disturb the peace.
      (1)   Conduct prohibited. No person shall, within the village, by or
through the use of any motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, an
automobile, truck, motorcycle, minibike, or snowmobile, cause or provoke
disorderly conduct with a motor vehicle, cause a disturbance, or annoy one or
more persons, or disturb or endanger the property or the safety of another’s
person or property.
      (2)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
         DISORDERLY CONDUCT WITH A MOTOR VEHICLE. The engaging in violent,
abusive, unreasonably loud conduct, or disturbing or endangering the property
or the safety of another’s person or property, or otherwise disorderly conduct,
including, but not limited to, unnecessary, deliberate, or intentional spinning
of wheels, squealing of tires, revving of engine, blowing the horn, causing the
engine to backfire, or causing the vehicle, while commencing to move or in
motion, to raise one or more wheels off the ground.
   (e)   Avoidance of traffic control device prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as to leave the
roadway and travel across private property to avoid an official traffic control
device, sign, or signal.
   (f)   Operation in restricted area prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as to leave the roadway and
park, stop, or travel upon or across any public or private property, parking
lot, driveway, or business service area for any purpose except the official
conduct of business located on said property without the consent of the owner
or lessee of the property. This section shall specifically include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Public park property;
      (2)   Cemetery properties;
      (3)   School District property;
      (4)   Medical facilities;
      (5)   Funeral homes;
      (6)   Service stations;
      (7)   Grocery stores;
      (8)   Restaurants;
      (9)   Financial institutions; and
      (10)   Other similar-type businesses with service driveways or drive-up
or drive-through facilities.
   (g)   Stopping and parking prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to stop or park a motor vehicle in any manner on any public or private property
or parking lot contrary to a regulatory sign posted thereon which may permit
parking by certain persons and limits, restricts, or prohibits parking as to
other persons without the consent of the owner or lessee of the property. Any
vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed by a law enforcement
officer at the vehicle owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-40)
§ 10-1-41 PEDESTRIAN REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and regulations.
      (1)   Obedience to traffic control devices. No person shall fail to obey
the instructions of any uniform traffic control device when traveling as a
pedestrian on any highway within the village, unless otherwise directed by a
law enforcement officer.
      (2)   Crossing at crosswalks. No pedestrian shall cross at a crosswalk
except on the right half thereof whenever practicable. Where sidewalks are
provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon an adjacent roadway except
when the sidewalk is visibly unsafe, obstructed, or closed to public travel.
   (b)   Prohibited pedestrian crossings. No pedestrian shall cross between
adjacent intersections, unless such crossing is permitted by official traffic
control devices.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-41)
§ 10-1-42 MOTOR VEHICLES ON PEDESTRIAN WAYS AND OVERPASSES.
   No person shall operate or park any motor vehicle on any pedestrian way or
pedestrian overpass within the village except municipal or county maintenance
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-42)
§ 10-1-43 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 349.215, those adult persons hired by the School
District or village to act as school crossing guards shall have the authority
to stop vehicular traffic and to keep it stopped as long as necessary at their
respective school crossings for the purpose of permitting school children to
cross the street.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-43)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 349.215
§ 10-1-44 DRIVING OVER CURBING OR SAFETY ISLANDS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Driving over curbing prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any motor
vehicle to be driven or backed over any curbing in the village.
   (b)   Driving over safety zones or islands prohibited. Whenever safety zones
or safety islands are marked in accordance with the Wisconsin Uniform Traffic
Control Device Manual, no operator of a vehicle shall at any time drive through
or over a safety zone or safety island.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-44)
§ 10-1-45 THROUGH 10-1-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE E: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 10-1-50 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Forfeiture penalty. The penalty for violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be a forfeiture as hereafter provided, together with court costs
and fees prescribed by Wis. Stats. §§ 814.63(1) and (2) or 814.65(1), the
penalty assessment for moving traffic violations, and the driver improvement
surcharge imposed by Wis. Stats. §§ 165.87 and 346.655, where applicable.
Payment of the judgment and applicable court costs, fees, assessments, and
surcharges may be suspended by the sentencing court for not more than 60 days.
Any person 18 years of age or older who shall fail to pay the amount of the
forfeiture, court costs, any penalty assessment, or driver surcharge, or other
penalty imposed for violation of any provision of this chapter, may, upon order
of the court entering judgment therefor and having jurisdiction of the case, be
imprisoned until such forfeiture, costs, and assessment are paid, but not
exceeding 90 days.
   (b)   Other sanctions.
      (1)   By court. Nothing herein shall preclude or affect the power of the
sentencing court to exercise additional authorities granted by the state
statutes to suspend or revoke the operating privileges of the defendant, order
the defendant to submit to assessment and rehabilitation programs, or to attend
traffic safety school in addition to payment of a monetary penalty or in lieu
of imprisonment.
      (2)   By municipality. No person who has been convicted of a violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be issued a license or permit by the
village, except a dog license, until the forfeiture imposed for such violation
and any penalty assessment, court costs, and fees, or surcharge is paid.
   (c)   Forfeitures for violation of uniform moving traffic regulations.
Forfeitures for violations of any moving traffic regulation set forth in the
state statutes adopted by reference in §
10-1-1 shall conform to the forfeiture penalty permitted to be imposed for
violations of the comparable state statute, including any variations or
increases for subsequent offenses; provided, however, that this subsection (c)
shall not be construed to permit prosecution under this chapter for any offense
described in Wis. Stats. Chapters 341 to 349, for which an imprisonment penalty
or fine may be imposed upon the defendant.
   (d)   Forfeitures for parking violations.
      (1)   Forfeitures for uniform statewide parking, stopping, and standing
offenses. Minimum and maximum forfeiture for violation of non-moving traffic
violations adopted by reference in §
10-1-1 as described in Wis. Stats. Chapters 341 to 349, shall be as found in
the current edition of the revised uniform state traffic deposit schedule.
      (2)   Penalty for other parking violations. The penalty for other
violations will be as follows: First offense, not less than $10 nor more than
$500; second offense, not less than $10 nor more than $500; and the like. Each
24-hour period of violation constitutes as a separate offense.
   (e)   Other violations. The penalty for other violations will be as follows:
First offense, not less than $15 nor more than $500; second offense, not less
than $25 nor more than $500; and the like. Each 24-hour period of violation
constitutes as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-50)
§ 10-1-51 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   How enforced. This chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the state statutes and this section.
      (2)   Applicable court procedures. Except where otherwise specifically
provided by the laws of the state or this code, the traffic regulations in this
code shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of Wis. Stats. §
345.20(2)(b) and Chapter 800.
   (b)   Citations.
      (1)   Uniform citation and complaint. The state uniform traffic citation
and complaint described and defined in the state statutes shall be used for
enforcement of all provisions of this chapter except those provisions which
describe or define non-moving traffic violations and violations of Wis. Stats.
§§ 346.71 through 346.73. Violations of Wis. Stats. §§ 346.71 through 346.73
shall be reported to the District Attorney, and the state uniform traffic
citation shall not be used in such cases except upon written request of the
District Attorney.
      (2)   Parking citations.
         a.   The Chief of Police shall recommend to the Village Board a
citation for use in enforcing the non-moving traffic offenses in this chapter.
Such citation shall be used for enforcement of non-moving traffic regulations
created or adopted by this chapter, including violations of non-moving traffic
regulations defined and described in the state statutes, adopted by reference
in §
10-1-1, and all provisions regarding non-moving traffic violations in this
chapter.
         b.   The citation for non-moving traffic violations shall contain a
notice that the person cited may discharge the forfeiture for violation of a
non-moving traffic regulation and penalty thereof by complying with subsection
(c)(2) below. Non-moving traffic citations may be issued by law enforcement
officers or by civilians designated in §
1-2-1.
   (c)   Deposits and stipulations.
      (1)   Uniform traffic offenses.
         a.   Who may make. Persons arrested or cited for violation of moving
traffic offenses created by this chapter shall be permitted to make deposits
and stipulations of no contest or released by the arresting officer in
accordance with the applicable provisions of the state statutes. Stipulations
of guilt or no contest may be made by persons arrested for violations of this
chapter in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.0114(1)(b) whenever the provisions
of Wis. Stats. § 345.27 are inapplicable to such violations. Stipulations shall
conform to the form contained in the uniform traffic citation and complaint
under Wis. Stats. § 345.11.
         b.   Delivery or mailing of deposit and stipulation. Any person
stipulating guilt or no contest under the preceding subsection (c)(1)a. above
must make the deposit required under Wis. Stats. § 345.26 or, if the deposit is
not established under such statute, shall deposit a forfeited penalty as
provided in the schedule established by the Village Board. Deposits may be
brought or mailed to the Clerk of Municipal Court or Police Department prior to
the scheduled court appearance date in lieu of court appearance.
      (2)   Non-moving traffic offenses.
         a.   Direct payment of penalty permitted. Persons cited (summons not
issued) for violation of non-moving traffic offenses described and defined in
this chapter may discharge the penalty thereof and avoid court prosecution by
mailing or forwarding within five days of the issuance of the citation the
minimum forfeiture specified for the violation. When payment is made as
provided in this subsection (c)(2)a., no court costs shall be charged.
         b.   Court prosecution. If the alleged violator does not deliver or
mail a deposit as provided in subsection (c)(2)a. within 15 days of the date of
the citation, the matter may be prosecuted.
         c.   Registration suspension. If the alleged violator does not pay the
forfeiture or appear in court in response to the citation for a non-moving
traffic violation on the date specified in the citation or, if no date is
specified on the citation, within 28 days after the citation is issued, the
village may ask the State Department of Transportation to suspend the
registration of the vehicle involved or refuse registration of any vehicle
owned by the person pursuant to the provisions of Wis. Stats. § 345.28(4) and
subsection (c)(3) below.
         d.   Bond. Any official authorized to accept deposits under Wis.
Stats. § 345.26, or this section, shall qualify by taking the oath prescribed
by Wis. Stats. § 19.01.
      (3)   Notice of demerit points and receipt. Every officer accepting a
forfeited penalty or money deposit under this section shall receipt therefor in
triplicate as provided in Wis. Stats. § 345.26(3)(b). Every officer accepting a
stipulation under the provisions of this section shall comply with the
provisions of Wis. Stats. §§ 345.27, 343.28, 345.26(1)(a), and 345.27(2), and
shall require the alleged violator to sign a statement of notice in
substantially the form contained on the uniform traffic citation and complaint
promulgated under Wis. Stats. § 345.11.
      (4)   Registration suspension program.
         a.   The village shall participate in the State Department of
Transportation Traffic Violation and Registration Program, as set forth in Wis.
Stats. § 345.28, and Wis. Admin. Code, Trans. 128, and all amendments or
changes thereto.
         b.   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is hereby designated
as a delegated authority for purposes of Wis. Stats. §§ 85.13 and 345.28, and
Wis. Admin. Code, Trans. 128. The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is
authorized to perform, on behalf of the village, all functions required of a
local authority under said statutes and code including, but not limited to:
            1.   Preparing and completing all forms and notices, notifying the
State Department of Transportation of unpaid citations for non-moving traffic
violations;
            2.   Specifying whether the registration of vehicles involved in
unpaid citations for non-moving traffic violations should be suspended and/or
whether registration should be refused for any vehicle owned by persons with
unpaid citations for non-moving traffic violations;
            3.   Determining the method by which the village will pay the State
Department of Transportation for administration of the program, and
establishing the effective date for participation; and
            4.   Taking such other action as is necessary to institute and
continue participation in the State Department of Transportation Traffic
Violation and Registration Program.
         c.   In addition to all applicable fines and court costs, the cost of
using the State Department of Transportation Traffic Violation and Registration
Program shall be assessed as permitted by Wis. Stats. § 345.28(4)(d). The
village may refuse to notify the State Department of Transportation of payment
on a citation until all applicable fines and costs, including costs assessed
under the preceding sentence, are paid.
         d.   This subsection (c)(4) shall not be interpreted as requiring that
all unpaid citations for non-moving traffic violations be processed through the
State Department of Transportation Traffic Violation and Registration Program.
The village’s participation in such program shall be in addition to any and all
other means legally available to enforce such citations.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-51)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter Trans. 128
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 345.28
CHAPTER 2: BICYCLES AND PLAY VEHICLES
Section
   
10-2-1   Definitions
   
10-2-2   Lighting and other equipment
   
10-2-3   Rules of the road
   
10-2-4   Regulation of skateboards, roller skates, and roller skis
   
10-2-5   General bicycle regulations
   
10-2-6   Bicycle penalties
   
10-2-7   Play vehicle penalties
§ 10-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by the feet acting upon pedals and having
wheels, any two of which are not less than 14 inches in diameter.
   BICYCLES’ LANE. The portion of a roadway set aside for exclusive use of
bicycles, and so designated by appropriate signs and markings by the
responsible governing body.
   BICYCLE WAY. Any path or sidewalk, or portion thereof, designated for the
use of bicycles by the responsible governing body.
   BIKE ROUTE. Any bicycle lane, bicycle way, or highway which has been duly
designated by the responsible governing body and identified by appropriate
signs and markings.
   CARRIER. Any device attached to a bicycle designed for carrying articles.
   PLAY VEHICLES. Any coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled, toboggan,
unicycle, or toy vehicle upon which a person may ride.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)
§ 10-2-2 LIGHTING AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall operate a bicycle upon a highway unless equipped as required
in Wis. Stats. § 347.81.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2)
§ 10-2-3 RULES OF THE ROAD.
   (a)   The provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapters 346 and 347, and applicable
village ordinances, shall govern the operation of bicycles where appropriate.
   (b)   Every person driving a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the village applicable to the driver
of the vehicle, except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by
their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3)
§ 10-2-4 REGULATION OF SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND ROLLER SKIS.
   (a)   Regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to
operate or ride a skateboard, roller skates, or roller skis (“play vehicles”)
in any of the following places.
      (1)   On any village streets, except while crossing a roadway at a
crosswalk.
      (2)   On any sidewalk in a business district. For purposes of this
section, a BUSINESS DISTRICT shall be defined as any area primarily commercial
in nature.
      (3)   In any public parking ramp or parking lot.
      (4)   On private property, unless permission has been received from the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property.
   (b)   Yield to pedestrians. Operators or riders of skateboards, roller
skates, roller skis, or other play vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to
other pedestrians using village sidewalks, and shall not otherwise endanger or
interfere with normal pedestrian traffic on those sidewalks.
   (c)   Play vehicles not to be pulled by moving vehicles. No person riding
upon any coaster, roller skates, skateboard, roller skis, sled, toboggan, or
play vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4)
§ 10-2-5 GENERAL BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Parental responsibility. No parent or guardian of any child shall
authorize or knowingly permit such child to violate any of the provisions of §§
10-2-3,
10-2-4, and this section.
   (b)   Street operation.
      (1)   Unless preparing to make a left turn, every person operating a
bicycle upon a roadway carrying two-way traffic shall ride as near as possible
to the right edge of the unobstructed traveled roadway. On one-way roadways,
the operator of the bicycle shall ride as near as possible to the right edge or
left edge of the unobstructed traveled roadway. Every person operating a
bicycle upon a roadway shall exercise due care when passing a standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction, allowing a minimum of three feet
between his or her bicycle and the vehicle.
      (2)   Every person when operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride
such bicycle in single file.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle to cling
to or attach himself or herself or the bicycle to any other moving vehicle upon
a street or highway.
      (4)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. Infant seats are permitted if
securely attached to the frame at the top mount and to the axle and frame at
the rear bottom mount, and if provided with hand holds, foot rests, foot
guards, and a safety belt. The use of a back pack for carrying an infant is
permitted. Persons are not permitted to be located on a bicycle in front of the
operator of the bicycle.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or
article which prevents the safe operation of the bicycle with at least one hand
on the handlebars at all times.
      (6)   No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands from the handlebars
or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding on any
street.
      (7)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
      (8)   No person may operate a bicycle or moped upon a roadway where a
sign is erected indicating that bicycle riding is prohibited.
   (c)   Bicycle parking. No bicycle shall be parked in front of or adjacent to
any commercial establishment unless the bicycle is parked on the sidewalk
parallel to the street and as close as possible to the curb. No person shall
leave a bicycle at such a place or in such a way as to create a hazard to
pedestrians, automobile operators, or to anyone else.
   (d)   Required equipment. Every bicycle, when operated upon a highway, shall
be equipped with a brake adequate to control the movement of and to stop such
vehicle whenever necessary. Such brake shall be maintained in good working
order at all times.
   (e)   Bicycles not to be pulled by moving vehicles. No person riding upon a
bicycle shall cling or attach himself or herself or his or her bicycle to any
other moving vehicle upon a street or highway, nor shall the operator of any
such bicycle tow or draw any coaster wagon, sled, person on roller skates, toy
vehicles, or any other similar vehicle on such highway.
   (f)   Speed. No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under existing conditions or in excess of any posted
speed limit.
   (g)   Operation on sidewalks.
      (1)   No person over the age of ten shall ride or propel any bicycle upon
any public sidewalk or thoroughfare of the Village set apart for pedestrians,
except bicycles having wheels sized 20 inches or under. This exception shall
not apply to 20-inch or under bicycles designed or modified to BMX
specifications.
      (2)   No person shall ride or propel any bicycle upon any public street,
alley, boulevard, or sidewalk of the village in such manner as to interfere
with the rights of other persons using such street, alley, boulevard, or
sidewalk.
   (h)   Bicycle operation while hearing obstructed. No person may operate a
bicycle upon a highway while such operator is using any audio device attached
directly to ear or ears of such operator that materially impairs the ability of
such operator to hear traffic signals or warnings.
   (i)   Mopeds prohibited on bicycle ways. No person may ride a moped or motor
bicycle with the power unit in operation upon a bicycle way.
   (j)   Riding bicycle on bicycle lane.
      (1)   Unless two-way traffic is authorized by the Village Board on any
portion of a roadway which it has set aside as a bicycle lane and appropriate
traffic signs are installed, every person operating a bicycle upon a bicycle
lane shall ride in the same direction in which vehicular traffic on the lane of
the roadway nearest the bicycle lane is traveling.
      (2)   a.   Unless otherwise provided under subsection (j)(2)b. below, a
person operating a bicycle may enter or leave a bicycle lane only at
intersections or at driveways adjoining the bicycle lane.
         b.   A person may leave a bicycle at any point by dismounting from the
bicycle and walking it out of the lane. A person may enter a bicycle lane at
any point by walking his or her bicycle into the lane and then mounting it.
      (3)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a bicycle lane shall exercise
due care and given an audible signal when passing a bicycle rider proceeding in
the same direction.
      (4)   Every operator of a bicycle entering a bicycle lane shall yield the
right-of-way to all bicycles in the bicycle lane. Upon leaving a bicycle lane,
the operator of a bicycle shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles and
pedestrians.
   (k)   Riding bicycle on bicycle way.
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a bicycle way shall:
         a.   Exercise due care and give an audible signal when passing a
bicycle rider or a pedestrian proceeding in the same direction; and
         b.   Obey each traffic signal or sign facing a roadway which runs
parallel and adjacent to a bicycle way.
      (2)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a bicycle way open to two-way
traffic shall ride on the right side of the bicycle way.
      (3)   Every operator of a bicycle entering a bicycle way shall yield the
right-of-way to all bicycles and pedestrians in the bicycle way.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5)
§ 10-2-6 BICYCLE PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person 16 years of age or older who shall violate any provision of
this chapter may be issued a uniform traffic citation and be subject to the
penalties provided by the uniform state traffic deposit schedule.
   (b)   Any person 14 years of age through 15 years of age who shall violate
any provisions of this chapter may be issued a citation and be subject to the
penalties provided by the deposit schedule and, upon conviction thereof, may be
required to forfeit not more than $25, together with the cost of the
prosecution and, in default of such payment, the Court may suspend the child’s
operating privileges, as defined in Wis. Stats. § 340.01, for not less than 30
days nor more than 90 days.
   (c)   Any person under 14 years of age who shall violate any provision of
this chapter may be issued a special bicycle violation warning notice along
with the following additional actions.
      (1)   First three offenses in one year: A warning letter sent to the
parent or guardian.
      (2)   Fourth and subsequent offense in the same year: Mandatory referral
to Barron or Polk County Juvenile Court.
   (d)   All violations shall be determined based on the preceding 12-month
period to establish which violation has occurred.
   (e)   Any parent or guardian of any child who authorizes or knowingly
permits such child to violate any of the provisions of this chapter may be
subject to the provisions of Wis. Stats. §§ 346.77 and 346.82(1).
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6)
§ 10-2-7 PLAY VEHICLE PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person 14 years of age and over who shall violate any provisions
of this chapter may be issued a citation and be subject to the penalties
provided by the deposit schedule and, upon conviction thereof, may be required
to forfeit not more than $25, together with the costs of prosecution.
   (b)   Any person under 14 years of age who shall violate any provisions of
this chapter may receive an officer’s report warning notice along with the
following additional actions.
      (1)   First three offenses in one year: A warning letter sent to the
parent or guardian.
      (2)   Fourth and subsequent offense in the same year: Mandatory referral
to Barron or Polk County Juvenile Court.
   (c)   Any parent or guardian of any child who authorizes or knowingly
permits such child to violate any of the provisions of this chapter may be
subject to the provisions of Wis. Stats. §§ 346.77 and 346.82(1).
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7)
CHAPTER 3: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
10-3-1   State snowmobile and all-terrain vehicles laws adopted
   
10-3-2   Applicability of traffic regulations to snowmobiles
   
10-3-3   Unattended vehicles
   
10-3-4   Operation on sidewalks prohibited
   
10-3-5   Snowmobile routes and trails designated
   
10-3-6   Additional regulations
   
10-3-7   Accidents and accident reports
   
10-3-8   Penalty
   
10-3-9   Enforcement
§ 10-3-1 STATE SNOWMOBILE AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES LAWS ADOPTED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the statutory
provisions describing and defining regulations with respect to snowmobiles in
the following enumerated sections of the state statutes are hereby adopted by
reference and made part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Acts
required to be performed or prohibited by such statutes are required or
prohibited by this chapter. Any future amendments, revisions, or modifications
of the statutes incorporated herein by reference are intended to be made part
of this code.
   (a)   Wis. Stats. § 350.01, “Definitions.”
   (b)   Wis. Stats. § 350.02, “Operation of Snowmobiles on or in the Vicinity
of Highways.”
   (c)   Wis. Stats. § 350.03, “Right-of-Way.”
   (d)   Wis. Stats. § 350.04, “Snowmobile Races, Derbies, and Routes.”
   (e)   Wis. Stats. § 350.045, “Public Utility Exemption.”
   (f)   Wis. Stats. § 350.047, “Local Utility Exemption.”
   (g)   Wis. Stats. § 350.05, “Operation by Youthful Operators Restricted.”
   (h)   Wis. Stats. § 350.055, “Safety Certification Program Established.”
   (i)   Wis. Stats. § 167.30, “Firearms and Bows.”
   (j)   Wis. Stats. § 350.07, “Driving Animals.”
   (k)   Wis. Stats. § 350.08, “Owner Permitting Operation.”
   (l)   Wis. Stats. § 350.09, “Head Lamps, Tail Lamps and Brakes, Etc.”
   (m)   Wis. Stats. § 350.10, “Miscellaneous Provisions for Snowmobile
Operation.”
   (n)   Wis. Stats. § 350.12, “Registration of Snowmobiles.”
   (o)   Wis. Stats. § 350.125, “Completion of Application for Registration by
Snowmobile Dealers.”
   (p)   Wis. Stats. § 350.13, “Uniform Trail Signs and Standards.”
   (q)   Wis. Stats. § 350.15, “Accidents and Accident Reports.”
   (r)   Wis. Stats. § 350.17, “Enforcement.”
   (s)   Wis. Stats. § 350.18, “Local Ordinances.”
   (t)   Wis. Stats. § 350.19, “Liability of Landowners.”
   (u)   Wis. Stats. § 350.99, “Parties to a Violation.”
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1)
§ 10-3-2 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS TO SNOWMOBILES.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any street, highway or alley
within the village in violation of the traffic regulation provisions of Wis.
Stats. §§ 346.04, 346.06, 346.11, 346.14(1), 346.18, 346.19, 346.20, 346.21,
346.26, 346.27, 346.33, 346.35, 346.37, 346.39, 346.40, 346.44, 346,46, 346.47,
346.48, 346.50(1)(b), 346.51, 346.52, 346.53, 346.54, 346.55, 346.87, 346.88,
346.89, 346.90, 346.91, 346.92(1), and 369.94(1), (6), (6m), and (9).
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2)
§ 10-3-3 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave or allow a snowmobile owned or operated by him or her
to remain unattended on any public highway or public property while the motor
is running or with the starting key left in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3)
§ 10-3-4 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any sidewalk, pedestrian way, or
upon the area between the sidewalk and the curb line of any street in the
village, except as specifically authorized by §
10-3-5 or for the purpose of crossing to obtain immediate access to an
authorized area of operation.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4)
§ 10-3-5 SNOWMOBILE ROUTES AND TRAILS DESIGNATED.
   (a)   Routes designated.
      (1)   Except as provided in Wis. Stats. §§ 350.02 and 350.045, or for
snowmobile events authorized in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 350.04, no person
shall operate a snowmobile upon any public right-of-way, in any public park, or
on any other public municipal property in the village except as hereinafter
designated.
      (2)   The following streets are designated snowmobile routes.
         a.   Elm Street from Blaine Avenue to Logan Avenue.
         b.   Front Avenue.
         c.   North Line Road between Poplar Street and Railway Line.
         d.   Rail Road Avenue from Maple Street to Pine Street; then North on
Pine Street to Martin Avenue.
   (b)   Parks and recreational areas. Operation of snowmobiles on marked
routes or trails is authorized in public parks and recreational areas only to
traverse to adjoining trails, subject to approval of the Village Board and
governing body of the village schools.
   (c)   Trail markers. The Street Department of the village are directed and
authorized to procure, erect, and maintain appropriate snowmobile route, trail,
or limit markers, and may accept such appropriate route markers from any
organized snowmobilers’ group or club as may be satisfactory and may also
obtain assistance from snowmobilers’ clubs.
   (d)   Closing of trails. The Chief of Police shall have the power to declare
the stated snowmobile routes and trails either open or closed.
   (e)   Markers to be obeyed. No person shall fail to obey any route or trail
sign, marker, or limit erected in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5)
Cross-reference:
   Unauthorized operation of motor vehicles on public or private property, see
§
10-4-2
§ 10-3-6 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Speed. No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any public right-of-
way or highway, or area adjacent to residences within the village at a speed in
excess of 15 miles per hour.
   (b)   Unattended vehicles. No person shall leave or allow a snowmobile owned
or operated by him or her to remain unattended on any public highway or public
property while the motor is running or with the starting key in the ignition.
   (c)   Operation on sidewalks or malls prohibited. No person shall operate a
snowmobile on any sidewalk, pedestrian way, or mall within the village.
   (d)   Operation on private property restricted. No person shall operate a
snowmobile on any private property not owned or controlled by him or her within
the village without the express consent or permission of the owner.
   (e)   Municipal court. Any person under the age of 18 brought into municipal
court for any snowmobile violation shall be accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
   (f)   Unnecessary noise. No person shall gun or race a snowmobile engine so
as to cause unnecessary noise, even though he or she may be operating within
the speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6)
§ 10-3-7 ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (a)   If he or she can do so without serious danger to his or her own
snowmobile or to persons on board, the operator of a snowmobile involved in a
snowmobile accident within the village shall stop his or her snowmobile and
render to other persons affected thereby such assistance as may be practicable
and necessary to save them from or minimize any danger caused by the accident,
and shall give his or her name and address and identification of his or her
snowmobile to any person injured and to the owner of any property damaged in
the accident.
   (b)   If the snowmobile accident results in death or injury to any person,
or total property or damage in excess of $200, every operator of a snowmobile
involved in such accident shall, as soon as possible, notify the Police
Department of the accident and shall, within ten days after the accident, file
a written report thereof with the Department on forms prescribed by it.
   (c)   If the operator of a snowmobile is physically incapable of making the
report required by this section and there was another occupant in the
snowmobile at the time of the accident capable of making the report, he or she
shall make such report.
   (d)   The village assumes no responsibility for injury or death caused by
proper or improper use of snowmobiles within and on properties owned and
controlled by the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7)
§ 10-3-8 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $20 and not more than $500, together
with the costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment thereof, may be
imprisoned in the County Jail for not exceeding ten days, provided no person
shall forfeit an amount in excess of the maximum fine or forfeiture allowed in
the state statutes for the same offense, and further provided that the penalty
and forfeiture for parking violations on highways shall be the amount
applicable to such violations by owners or operators of motor vehicles under
Title 10, Chapter 1, of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8)
§ 10-3-9 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Uniform citation for highway violations. The uniform traffic citation
promulgated under Wis. Stats. § 345.11 shall be used for violations of this
chapter relating to highway use, except as herein provided.
   (b)   Parking violations. The special traffic citation described and defined
in
Title 10, Chapter 1, of this code of ordinances shall be used for enforcement
of violations of rules of the road relating to parking of vehicles adopted by
reference in § 10-3-1.
   (c)   Other violations. All violations of this chapter not described in
subsections (a) or (b) above shall be enforced in accordance with Wis. Stats.
§§ 66.0114 and 66.0111. Stipulations of guilt or no contest may be made as
provided in Wis. Stats. § 66.0114(1)(b), in substantially the form provided in
the uniform traffic citation within five days of the date of the citation for
such violation. Bail deposits may also be made under Wis. Stats. § 66.0114.
   (d)   Forfeited penalties and deposits. Except as otherwise provided in Wis.
Stats. § 345.26, and the deposit schedule adopted by the State Board of Circuit
Court Judges thereunder; required penalties and deposits or bail not including
costs or fees for violation of this chapter shall be as established by the
schedule adopted by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9)
CHAPTER 4: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND OFF-ROAD MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
10-4-1   All-terrain vehicle regulations
   
10-4-2   Unauthorized operation of motor vehicles on public or private property
   
10-4-3   Mini-bikes and self-propelled vehicles regulated
§ 10-4-1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   State statutes adopted. The statutory provisions in Wis. Stats. §
23.33, and the rules promulgated thereunder, describing and defining
regulations with respect to all-terrain vehicles, exclusive of any regulations
for which the statutory penalty is a fine or imprisonment, are adopted and by
reference made part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Any act
required to be performed or prohibited by any regulation incorporated herein by
reference is required or prohibited by this chapter. Any future amendments,
revisions, or modifications of the statutory regulations in Wis. Stats. §
23.33, and the rules promulgated thereunder, are intended to be made a part of
this chapter in order to secure to the extent legally practicable uniform
state-wide regulation of all-terrain vehicles.
   (b)   Access to trails. Any person who is allowed to operate under Wis.
Stats. § 23.33(5)(b), may operate an all-terrain vehicle on any signed route
designated by the Village Board. Once on such trail, these designated routes
must be followed to get to other portions of the designated signed trail. Other
ATV’s not already on a trail may use the most direct route to and from such
trails. No one shall operate an ATV on any public road unless enroute to or
from a public trail specifically designated by the government for all-terrain
vehicle use.
   (c)   Speed limitations. No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle on
any trail access route, street, or alley in excess of 15 miles per hour, or on
any specifically designated all-terrain vehicle trail through the village in
excess of 15 miles per hour.
   (d)   Prohibited hours of operation. No person shall operate an all-terrain
vehicle on any trail access route, street, or alley between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, or between the hours of 2:30 a.m.
and 8:00 a.m. on Friday or Saturday.
   (e)   Method of travel. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle on any
trail access route, street, or alley shall proceed in single file in the
direction of regular traffic flow, on the extreme right portion of the traveled
roadway. Night operations require adequate head and taillights.
   (f)   Forfeitures for violation of all-terrain vehicle statutes and rules.
Forfeitures for violations of all-terrain vehicle statutes and rules
incorporated by reference shall conform to the forfeiture penalty permitted to
be imposed by violations of the comparable state statute or rule, including any
variations or increases for subsequent offenses; provided, however, that this
subsection (f) shall not be construed to permit prosecution under this chapter
for any offense described in Wis. Stats. § 23.33, for which an imprisonment
penalty or fine may be imposed upon the defendant.
   (g)   Other violations. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter for which a penalty is not otherwise established by this section shall
be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $10 nor more than $75.
   (h)   Deposits. Persons arrested or cited for a violation of this chapter
shall be permitted to make deposits and stipulations of no contest as upon a
traffic citation. The deposit shall be the amount specified by the Uniform
State Traffic Deposit Schedule of the State Judicial Conference for violations
of statutory provisions adopted by reference, and $37.50 for violations of
other provisions of this chapter, together with the applicable court costs,
assessments, and surcharges, if any.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1)
§ 10-4-2 UNAUTHORIZED OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   The unauthorized off-road operation of motor vehicles has resulted
in serious damage to public and private lands including damage or destruction
of vegetation, animal life, and improvement to the lands.
      (2)   The unauthorized off-road operation of motor vehicles has resulted
in the permanent scarring of land and an increase in both erosion and air
pollution.
      (3)   The unauthorized off-road operation of motor vehicles has resulted
in collisions and near collisions threatening the life and safety of the
operators of such vehicles as well as of other persons.
      (4)   The unauthorized off-road operation of motor vehicles has resulted
in a loss of the privacy, quietude, and serenity to which the owners and users
of land are rightfully entitled.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and shall include, but
not be limited to, automobiles, trucks, jeeps, vans, motorcycles, motorbikes,
go-karts, motorized three-wheeled vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, mopeds,
snowmobiles, dune buggies, and tractors. MOTOR VEHICLE shall not mean any
airplane, railroad train, boat, wheelchair, or bicycle. A vehicle which would
otherwise be defined as a MOTOR VEHICLE under this section shall not be so
defined while:
         a.   It is being operated solely for the purpose of construction or
maintenance of an improvement to land or solely for access to construction or
maintenance sites, provided such operation is by persons having legitimate
business on such lands or sites;
         b.   It is being operated by or at the direction of public employees
or utility company employees as part of their employment duties; and/or
         c.   It is being operated by the holder of an easement or right of
access on or over the land on which operation is occurring, or the holder’s
employees or agents.
      OFF-ROAD.
         a.   Any location which:
            1.   Is not a paved or maintained public street or alley;
            2.   Is not used or maintained by the owner or lessee of land as a
driveway, parking lot, or other way for motor vehicles; or
            3.   Is a private trail for use only by the owner or his or her
permittees for recreational or other vehicular use.
         b.   OFF-ROAD shall not include any creekbed, riverbed, or lake,
provided, however, that this subsection b. shall not apply to snowmobiles or
other vehicles being operated on the ice covering such creekbed, riverbed, or
lake.
      OPERATION. The physical manipulation or activation of any of the controls
of a motor vehicle necessary to put it in motion.
      UNAUTHORIZED. Without the express prior consent of the owner, lessee,
manager, or other person authorized to give consent by the owner or lessee of
land. Authorization shall not be implied from a failure to post private or
public land.
   (c)   Unauthorized off-road operation prohibited.
      (1)   The unauthorized off-road operation of a motor vehicle is
prohibited.
      (2)   Except for authorized maintenance vehicles and snowmobiles, or all-
terrain vehicles operating in areas authorized by the Village Board, it shall
be unlawful to operate any minibike, go-kart, all-terrain vehicle, or any other
motor-driven craft or vehicle principally manufactured for off-highway use on
the village streets, alleys, parks, sidewalks, bikeways, parking lots, or on
any public lands or private lands or parking lots held open to the public. The
operator shall at all times have the written consent of the owner before
operation of such craft or vehicle on private lands.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2)
§ 10-4-3 MINI-BIKES AND SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES REGULATED.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      HIGHWAY. All public ways and thoroughfares and bridges on the same. It
includes the entire highway right-of-way width, not limited to the actual
traveled portion, but also includes the shoulders, ditches, and other areas
adjacent thereto.
      MINI-BIKE. Any motorized vehicle primarily used for transportation or
sport, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, off-the-road trail bikes,
and motorized bicycles.
      MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any self-propelled device in, upon, or by which any
person or property is or may be transported.
      SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES. Any motorized vehicle primarily used for off-
the-road use, including, but not limited to, go-carts, all-terrain vehicles,
and all other vehicles not registered pursuant to Wis. Stats. Chapter 341, but
not snowmobiles.
   (b)   Operation of mini-bikes and self-propelled vehicles. No person shall
operate a mini-bike or self-propelled vehicle in the village in the following
manner.
      (1)   At a rate of speed that is unreasonable or imprudent under the
circumstances.
      (2)   In any careless way so as to endanger the person or property of
another.
      (3)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, fermented malt
beverages, narcotics, or other controlled substances.
      (4)   In such a way that the exhaust of the motor makes an excessive or
unusual noise.
      (5)   Without a functioning muffler.
      (6)   Upon any public highway, street, or alley, or upon any sidewalk or
parkway in the village unless such vehicle is registered as required by Wis.
Stats. Chapter 341, and its operation and operator are specifically permitted
to operate the said vehicle by the state statutes.
      (7)   Upon any slide, ski, or skating area, except for the purposes of
serving the area or crossing the places where marked.
      (8)   Upon any lands owned, operated, or leased by the village.
      (9)   Upon a cemetery, burial ground, school, or church property, without
the express consent of the owner.
   (c)   Liability of parent or guardian. No parent or guardian of any child
under the age of 18 years shall authorize or permit such child to violate any
of the provisions of this section. Any child under the age of 18 years who
shall operate a mini-bike or self-propelled device shall be presumed to be
operating said vehicle under the authority of a parent or guardian.
   (d)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, forfeit for each offense not less than $25 nor more than
$200, together with the costs of prosecution and in default of payment of such
forfeiture, and costs of prosecution shall be imprisoned in the County Jail not
to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3)
CHAPTER 5: ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
10-5-1   Abandoned vehicles; definitions
   
10-5-2   Removal and impoundment of vehicles
   
10-5-3   Removal, storage, notice, or reclaimer of abandoned vehicles
   
10-5-4   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
10-5-5   Report of sale or disposal
   
10-5-6   Owner responsible for impoundment and disposal costs
   
10-5-7   Conflict with other code provisions
   
10-5-8   Junked vehicles and appliances on private property
§ 10-5-1 ABANDONED VEHICLES; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited. No person shall leave unattended
any motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, or mobile home on any public street or
highway, or private or public property, in the village for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause the vehicle to reasonably appear to have been
abandoned. Whenever any such vehicle has been left unattended on any street or
highway in the village, or upon private or public property without the
permission of the property owner or other person charged with the lawful
jurisdiction thereof, for more than 48 hours, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and constitutes a public nuisance.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      STREET. Any public highway or alley, and shall mean the entire width
between the boundary lines of any public way where any part thereof is open to
the public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
      UNATTENDED. Unmoved from its location with no obvious sign of continuous
human use.
      VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, or mobile home, whether
or not such vehicle is registered under state law.
   (c)   Presumptions. For purposes of this section, the following irrebuttable
presumptions shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be presumed unattended if it is found in the same
position 48 hours after issuance of a traffic ticket or citation, and if such
traffic ticket or citation remains placed upon the windshield during said 48
hours.
      (2)   Any vehicle left unattended for more than 48 hours on any public
street or public ground, or left unattended for more than 48 hours on private
property without the consent of the property owner, is deemed abandoned and
constitutes a nuisance; provided, that the vehicle shall not be deemed
abandoned under this subsection (c) if left unattended on private property
outside of public view and is enclosed within a building, or if designated as
not abandoned by the Village Board or a law enforcement officer.
   (d)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building or a vehicle stored on a premises licensed for storage of junk or
junked vehicles, and fully in compliance with village zoning regulations, or to
a vehicle parked in a paid parking lot or space where the required fee has been
paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1)
§ 10-5-2 REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle in violation of this chapter shall be removed and impounded
until lawfully claimed or disposed of under the provisions of §
10-5-3.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2)
§ 10-5-3 REMOVAL, STORAGE, NOTICE, OR RECLAIMER OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
removal, storage, notice, reclaimer, or disposal of abandoned vehicles as
defined in §
10-5-1.
   (b)   Removal.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who discovers any motor vehicle,
trailer, semitrailer, or mobile home on any public street or highway, or
private or public property, in the village which has been abandoned shall cause
the vehicle to be removed to a suitable place of impoundment.
      (2)   Upon removal of the vehicle, the law enforcement officer shall
notify the village of the abandonment and of the location of the impounded
vehicle.
   (c)   Storage and reclaimer. Any abandoned vehicle which is determined by
the Village Board, or its designee, or a law enforcement officer to be
abandoned shall be retained in storage for a period of 14 days after certified
mail notice, as hereinafter provided, has been sent to the state titled owner
and/or secured party of record with the State Motor Vehicle Division, except
that if the Village Board, or its designee, or a law enforcement officer,
determines an abandoned vehicle to have a value of less than $100, or that the
cost of towing and storage charges for impoundment will exceed the value of the
vehicle, it may be junked or sold by direct sale to a licensed salvage dealer
after having been retained in storage for a period of seven days and after
certified mail notice, as hereinafter provided, has been sent to the state
titled owner or secured party of record with the State Motor Vehicle Division,
provided that it is first determined that the vehicle is not reported stolen or
wanted for evidence or other reason. All substantially complete vehicles in
excess of 19 model years of age shall be deemed as a having value in excess of
$100. Any such vehicle which may be lawfully reclaimed may be released upon the
payment of all accrued charges, including towing, storage, and notice charges,
and upon presentation of the vehicle title or other satisfactory evidence to
the Village Board, or its designee, or a law enforcement officer, to prove an
ownership or secured party interest in said vehicle.
   (d)   Notice to owner or secured party. Certified mail notice, as referred
to herein, shall notify the state titled owner of the abandoned vehicle, if
any, and/or the secured party of record with the State Motor Vehicle Division,
if any, of the following.
      (1)   The vehicle has been deemed abandoned and impounded by the village.
      (2)   The “determined value” of the abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   If the cost of towing and storage costs will exceed the determined
value of the vehicle.
      (4)   If the vehicle is not wanted for evidence or other reason, the
vehicle may be reclaimed upon the payment of all accrued charges, including
towing, storage, and notice charges, within 14 days of the date of notice,
unless the vehicle has been determined to have a value less than $100 or that
the cost of towing and storage charges for impoundment will exceed the value of
the vehicle, in which case the vehicle may be reclaimed within seven days upon
the payment of the aforesaid charges.
      (5)   The owner or aforesaid secured party may, upon request, be granted
a hearing relating to the determinations made with respect to said vehicle
within the period that such vehicles may be reclaimed.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3)
§ 10-5-4 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Any abandoned vehicle impounded by the village, which has not been reclaimed
or junked or sold by direct sale to a licensed salvage dealer pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, may be sold by public auction sale or public sale
calling for the receipt of sealed bids. A Class I notice, including the
description of the vehicles, the name(s) and address(es) of the state titled
owner and secured party of record, if known, and the time of sale shall be
published before the sale.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4)
§ 10-5-5 REPORT OF SALE OR DISPOSAL.
   Within five days after the direct sale or disposal of a vehicle as provided
for herein, the Village Board, or its designee, or a law enforcement officer,
shall advise the State Department of Transportation, Division of Motor
Vehicles, of such sale or disposal on a form supplied by said Division. A copy
of the form shall be given to the purchaser of the vehicle enabling the
purchaser to obtain a regular certificate of title for the vehicle. The
purchaser shall have ten days to remove the vehicle from the storage area but
shall pay a reasonable storage fee established by the village for each day the
vehicle remains in storage after the second business day subsequent to the sale
date. Ten days after the sale the purchaser shall forfeit all interest in the
vehicle and the vehicle shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be sold again.
Any listing of vehicles to be sold by the village shall be made available to
any interested person or organization which makes a written request for such
list.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-5)
§ 10-5-6 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL COSTS.
   (a)   The owner of any abandoned vehicle, except a stolen vehicle, is
responsible for the abandonment and all costs of impounding and disposing of
the vehicle. Costs not covered from the sale of the vehicle may be recovered in
a civil action by the village against the owner.
   (b)   Payment of removal and impoundment costs is not required when the
vehicle has been impounded for purposes of law enforcement investigation.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-6)
§ 10-5-7 CONFLICT WITH OTHER CODE PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this section and any other provisions
of this municipal code, this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-7)
§ 10-5-8 JUNKED VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   Storage of automobiles restricted. No disassembled, inoperable,
unlicensed, junked, or wrecked motor vehicles, truck bodies, tractors,
trailers, farm machinery, vehicle parts, or tires, or appliances shall be
stored upon private residential property or unenclosed within a building upon
non-residential property within the village for a period exceeding ten days
unless it is in connection with an authorized business enterprise located in a
properly zoned area maintained in such a manner as to not constitute a public
nuisance.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      DISASSEMBLED, INOPERABLE, JUNKED, OR WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLES, TRUCK
BODIES, TRACTORS, TRAILERS. Motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, truck
bodies, tractors, farm machinery, or trailers in such state of physical or
mechanical ruin as to be incapable of propulsion, being operated upon the
public streets or highways, or which is otherwise not in safe or legal
condition for operation on public streets or highways due to missing or
inoperative parts, flat or removed tires, expired or missing license plates, or
other defects.
      INOPERABLE APPLIANCE. Any stove, washer, refrigerator, or other appliance
which is no longer operable in the sense for which it was manufactured.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Wis. Stats. § 340.01(35).
      UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES, TRUCK BODIES, TRACTORS, OR TRAILERS. Motor
vehicles, truck bodies, tractors, recreational vehicles, or trailers which do
not bear lawful current license plates.
   (c)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle or motor
vehicle accessories stored within an enclosed building or on the premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner in a properly zoned
area when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, in a storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner, or seasonal use
vehicles such as snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, and nonmotorized
campers, provided such vehicles are stored in compliance with the ordinances of
the village. Also excepted are motor vehicles registered pursuant to Wis.
Stats. §§ 341.265 and 341.266. In other situations the Village Board may issue
temporary permits permitting an extension of not to exceed an additional 30
days’ time to comply with this section where exceptional facts and
circumstances warrant such extension.
   (d)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever the Village Board, its authorized designee, or a law
enforcement officer, shall find any vehicles, vehicle parts, or tires, or
appliances, as described herein, placed or stored in the open upon private
property within the village, it shall notify the owner of said property on
which said vehicle or appliance is stored of the violation of this section. If
said vehicles, part thereof, or appliance is not removed within five days, the
Village Board, its authorized designee, or a law enforcement officer, shall
cause to be issued a citation to the property owner or tenant of the property
upon which said vehicle or appliance is stored.
      (2)   If such vehicle or appliance is not removed within 20 days after
issuance of a citation, the Village Board, its authorized designee, or a law
enforcement officer, shall cause the vehicle or appliance to be removed and
impounded, and it shall thereafter be disposed of as prescribed in §§
10-5-3 through
10-5-6 by the Village Board, its authorized designee, or a law enforcement
officer. Any cost incurred in the removal and sale of said vehicle or appliance
shall be recovered from the owner. However, if the owner of the vehicle or
appliance cannot readily be found, the cost of such removal shall be charged to
the property from which it is removed, which charges shall be entered as a
special charge on the tax roll.
   (e)   Penalty. Any person who shall interfere with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this section and shall be found guilty thereof shall be
subject to a penalty as provided in §
1-1-6. Each motor vehicle or appliance involved shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 342.40
TITLE 11: OFFENSES AND NUISANCES
Chapter
   
1.   STATE STATUTES ADOPTED
   
2.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY AND PEACE
   
3.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
4.   OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
5.   OFFENSES BY JUVENILES
   
6.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
   
7.   TRUANCY
CHAPTER 1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED
Section
   
11-1-1   Offenses against state laws subject to forfeiture
   
11-1-2   Penalties; attempt; parties to acts
§ 11-1-1 OFFENSES AGAINST STATE LAWS SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE.
   The following statutes defining offenses against the peace and good order of
the state are adopted by reference to define offenses against the peace and
good order of the village. With the exception of Wis. Stats. § 938.342, the
penalty for commission of such offenses hereunder shall be limited to a
forfeiture imposed under the general penalty provisions of this code of
ordinances. Any future amendments, revisions, or modifications of the statutes
incorporated herein by reference are intended to be made part of this code. The
penalty for truancy and high school dropouts shall be governed by the
provisions of Wis. Stats. § 938.342, as adopted herein.
Wis. Stats. § 29.288               Throwing Refuse in Waters
Wis. Stats. § 50.58                Careless Smoking
Wis. Stats. § 118.07               Safety Requirements
Wis. Stats. § 118.08               School Zones; Crossings
Wis. Stats. § 118.09               Safety Zones
Wis. Stats. § 118.10               School Safety Patrols
Wis. Stats. § 118.11               School Fences
Wis. Stats. § 118.105              Control of Traffic on School Premises
Wis. Stats. § 118.123              Reports and Records
Wis. Stats. § 118.163              Truancy and School Dropout Violations
Wis. Stats. § 125.07(2)            Sale to Intoxicated Person
Wis. Stats. § 125.11               Miscellaneous Chapter 125 Violations
Wis. Stats. § 125.66               Sale Without License
Wis. Stats. § 125.68(4)            Closing Hours
Wis. Stats. § 125.69(6)            Purchasing Violations
Wis. Stats. § 125.085(3)(a)(1)     Alteration of Identification Cards
Wis. Stats. § 134.65               Cigarette and Tobacco Products Retailer License
Wis. Stats. § 134.66               Restrictions on Sale or Gift of Cigarettes or Tobacco Products
Wis. Stats. § 167.10               Fireworks Regulated
Wis. Stats. § 175.25               Illegal Storage of Junked Vehicles
Wis. Stats. § 938.17               Jurisdiction - Juveniles—Traffic, Boating, Snowmobile and All-Terrain Vehicle
                                    Violations and over Civil Law and Ordinance Violations
Wis. Stats. § 938.125              Jurisdiction - Juveniles Alleged to Have Violated Civil Laws or Ordinances
Wis. Stats. § 938.342              Disposition - Truancy and School Dropout Ordinance Violations
Wis. Stats. § 938.343              Disposition - Juvenile Adjudged to Have Violated a Civil Law or an Ordinance
Wis. Stats. § 938.344              Disposition - Certain Intoxicating Liquor, Beer, and Drug Violations
Wis. Stats. § 938.345              Disposition - Juvenile Adjudged in Need of Protection or Services
Wis. Stats. § 938.983              Purchase or Possession of Tobacco Products Prohibited
Wis. Stats. § 939.05(2)(b)         Purchase or Possession of Tobacco Products Prohibited
Wis. Stats. § 939.22               Words and Phrases Defined
Wis. Stats. § 940.19(1)            Battery
Wis. Stats. § 940.42               Misdemeanor Intimidation of Witnesses
Wis. Stats. § 940.44               Intimidation of Victims
Wis. Stats. § 940.291              Failure of a Police Officer to Render Aid
Wis. Stats. § 941.01               Negligent Operation of a Vehicle
Wis. Stats. § 941.10               Negligent Handling of Burning Materials
Wis. Stats. § 941.12(2), (3)       Interfering With or Failing to Assist in Firefighting
Wis. Stats. § 941.13               False Alarms and Interference with Firefighting
Wis. Stats. § 941.20(1)            Reckless Use of Weapon
Wis. Stats. § 941.23               Carrying Concealed Weapon
Wis. Stats. § 941.35               Emergency Telephone Calls
Wis. Stats. § 941.36               Fraudulent Tapping of Electric Wires or Gas or Water Meters or Pipes
Wis. Stats. § 941.37(1), (2)       Obstructing Emergency or Rescue Personnel
Wis. Stats. § 941.235              Carrying a Firearm in a Public Building
Wis. Stats. § 942.01               Defamation
Wis. Stats. § 942.03               Giving False Information for Publication
Wis. Stats. § 942.05               Opening Letters
Wis. Stats. § 942.20(1), (2)       Theft
Wis. Stats. § 943.01(1)            Criminal Damage to Property
Wis. Stats. § 943.11               Entry Into Locked Vehicle
Wis. Stats. § 943.13               Trespass to Land
Wis. Stats. § 943.14               Trespass to Dwellings
Wis. Stats. § 943.15               Entry Into Locked Site
Wis. Stats. § 943.20(3)(a)         Theft of Property
Wis. Stats. § 943.21(3)            Fraud on Innkeeper or Restaurant Keeper
Wis. Stats. § 943.22               Cheating Tokens
Wis. Stats. § 943.23(1)(4)(5)      Operating Vehicle Without Owner’s Consent
Wis. Stats. § 943.24               I.O.W.C.
Wis. Stats. § 943.34(1)(a)         Receiving Stolen Property
Wis. Stats. § 943.37               Alteration of Property Identification Marks
Wis. Stats. § 943.38(3)            Forgery
Wis. Stats. § 943.41               Credit Card Crimes
Wis. Stats. § 943.46               Theft of Cable Services
Wis. Stats. § 943.50(1)-(3), (4)(a)Retail Theft
Wis. Stats. § 943.55               Removal of a Shopping Cart
Wis. Stats. § 943.70               Computer Theft
Wis. Stats. § 943.125              Entry Into Locked Coin Box
Wis. Stats. § 943.145              Criminal Trespass to a Medical Facility
Wis. Stats. § 944.15               Fornication
Wis. Stats. § 944.17               Sexual Gratification
Wis. Stats. § 944.20               Lewd and Lascivious Behavior
Wis. Stats. § 944.21               Obscene Material or Performance
Wis. Stats. § 944.23               Making Lewd, Obscene, or Indecent Drawings
Wis. Stats. § 944.30               Prostitution
Wis. Stats. § 944.31               Patronizing Prostitutes
Wis. Stats. § 944.33               Pandering
Wis. Stats. § 944.36               Solicitation of Drinks Prohibited
Wis. Stats. § 945.01               Definitions Relating to Gambling
Wis. Stats. § 945.02               Gambling
Wis. Stats. § 945.04               Permitting Premises to be Used for Commercial Gambling
Wis. Stats. § 946.40               Refusing to Aid Officer
Wis. Stats. § 946.41               Resisting or Obstructing Officer
Wis. Stats. § 946.42(2)            Escape
Wis. Stats. § 946.46               Encouraging Violation of Probation or Parole
Wis. Stats. § 946.69               Falsely Assuming to Act as Public Officer or Employee
Wis. Stats. § 946.70               Impersonating Peace Officer
Wis. Stats. § 946.72(2)            Tampering with Public Records and Notices
Wis. Stats. § 947.01               Disorderly Conduct
Wis. Stats. § 947.06               Unlawful Assemblies
Wis. Stats. § 947.012              Unlawful Use of Telephone
Wis. Stats. § 947.013              Harassment
Wis. Stats. Chapter 30              Littering Shores
Wis. Stats. § 948.01               Definitions Relating to Crimes Against Children
Wis. Stats. § 948.09               Sexual Intercourse With a Child Age 16 or Older
Wis. Stats. § 948.10               Exposing a Sex Organ
Wis. Stats. § 948.11(1)(b), (2)(b) Exposing a Child to Harmful Material
Wis. Stats. § 948.21               Neglecting a Child
Wis. Stats. § 948.40               Contributing to the Delinquency of a Child
Wis. Stats. § 948.50               Strip Search by School Employee
Wis. Stats. § 948.51(1), (2), (3)  Hazing
(a)
Wis. Stats. § 948.60               Possession of a Dangerous Weapon by a Child
Wis. Stats. § 948.61(1), (2)       Dangerous Weapons on School Premises
Wis. Stats. § 948.63               Receiving Property From a Child
Wis. Stats. § 951.01               Definitions Relating to Crimes Against Animals
Wis. Stats. § 951.02               Mistreating Animals
Wis. Stats. § 951.03               Dognapping or Catnapping
Wis. Stats. § 951.04               Leading Animal from Motor Vehicle
Wis. Stats. § 951.05               Transportation of Animals
Wis. Stats. § 951.06               Use of Poisonous and Controlled Substances
Wis. Stats. § 951.07               Use of Certain Devices Prohibited
Wis. Stats. § 951.08               Instigating Fights Between Animals
Wis. Stats. § 951.09               Shooting at Caged or Staked Animals
Wis. Stats. § 951.10               Sale of Baby Rabbits, Chicks, and Other Fowl
Wis. Stats. § 951.11               Artificially Colored Animals; Sale
Wis. Stats. § 951.13               Providing Proper Food and Drink to Confined Animals
Wis. Stats. § 951.14               Providing Proper Shelter
Wis. Stats. § 951.015              Construction and Application
Wis. Stats. § 951.15               Animals; Neglected or Abandoned; Police Powers
Wis. Stats. § 173.10               Investigation of Animal Cruelty Complaints
Wis. Stats. § 173.24               Reimbursement for Expenses
Wis. Stats. § 961.41(3g)(b), (d),  Possession of Controlled Substance
(e)
Wis. Stats. § 961.571              Definitions of Drug Paraphernalia
Wis. Stats. § 961.572              Determination
Wis. Stats. § 961.573              Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
Wis. Stats. § 961.574              Manufacture or Delivery of Drug Paraphernalia
Wis. Stats. § 961.575              Delivery of Drug Paraphernalia to a Minor
Wis. Stats. § 961.576              Advertisement of Drug Paraphernalia
Wis. Stats. § 961.577              Municipal Ordinances
Wis. Stats. § 961.003              Uniformity of Interpretation
Wis. Stats. § 961.005              Short Title
 
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 11-1-2 PENALTIES; ATTEMPT; PARTIES TO ACTS.
   (a)   Penalty. In addition to the general penalty provisions of this code in
§
1-1-6 or any other penalty imposed for violation of any section of this title,
any person who shall cause physical damage to or destroy any public property
shall be liable for the cost of replacing or repairing such damaged or
destroyed property. The parent or parents of any unemancipated juvenile who
violates §
11-3-1 may also be held liable for the cost of replacing or repairing such
damaged or destroyed property in accordance with the state statutes. Nothing in
this code of ordinances shall prevent the Police Department from referring
violations of the provisions of this title to the District Attorney’s office in
the interest of justice.
   (b)   Attempt.
      (1)   Whoever attempts to commit an act prohibited by Title 11 of the
code of ordinances of the village may be required to forfeit amounts not to
exceed one-half the maximum penalty for the completed act.
      (2)   An attempt to commit an act prohibited by the ordinances in Title
11 requires that the actor have an intent to perform acts and attain a result
which, if accomplished, would constitute a violation of these ordinances, and
that he or she does acts towards the commission of the violation which
demonstrate unequivocally, under all the circumstances, that he or she formed
that intent and would commit the violation except for the intervention of
another person, or some other extraneous factor.
   (c)   Parties to acts prohibited in Title 11.
      (1)   Whoever is concerned in the commission of an act prohibited by
Title 11 of this code of ordinances, is a principle and may be charged with and
convicted of the commission of said act, although he or she did not directly
commit it and although the person who directly committed it has not been
convicted of some other act prohibited by these ordinances.
      (2)   a.   A person is concerned in the commission of an act prohibited
by these ordinances if he or she:
            1.   Directly commits the act;
            2.   Intentionally aids and abets the commission of it; or
            3.   Is a party to a conspiracy with another to commit it or
advises, hires, counsels, or otherwise procures another to commit it.
         b.   Such party is also concerned in the commission of any other act
which is committed in pursuance of the intended violation and which, under the
circumstances, is the natural and probable consequence of the intended
violation. This subsection (c) does not apply to a person who voluntarily
changes his or her mind and no longer desires that the act be committed and
notifies the other parties concerned of his or her withdrawal within a
reasonable time before the commission of the violation so as to allow the
others also to withdraw.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
CHAPTER 2: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY AND PEACE
Section
   
11-2-1   Regulation of firearms, explosives, and other missiles
   
11-2-2   Carrying concealed weapons prohibited; certain weapons prohibited
   
11-2-3   Obstructing streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
11-2-4   Loitering prohibited
   
11-2-5   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
11-2-6   Disorderly conduct
   
11-2-7   Unauthorized presence on school property
   
11-2-8   Harassment
   
11-2-9   Open cisterns, wells, basements, or other dangerous excavations
prohibited
   
11-2-10   Smoking prohibited
   
11-2-11   Nuisance
§ 11-2-1 REGULATION OF FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES, AND OTHER MISSILES.
   (a)   Discharge of firearms regulated. No person, except a law enforcement
officer in the performance of an official duty, shall fire or discharge any
firearm, rifle, spring gun, air gun, or pneumatic pellet gun of any description
in his or her possession or under his or her control within the village, unless
it is unloaded and lawfully enclosed in a proper carrying case, provided that
this section shall not prevent the maintenance and use of duly supervised rifle
or pistol ranges or shooting galleries authorized by the Village Board, or the
firing or discharging of BB guns upon private premises by persons over 16 or
under the direct personal supervision of a parent or guardian.
   (b)   Hunting prohibited. Hunting within the village is prohibited.
   (c)   Shooting into village limits. No person shall, in the territory
adjacent to the village, discharge any firearm in such manner that the
discharge shall enter or fall within the village.
   (d)   Shooting ranges. This section shall not prevent the maintenance and
use of duly supervised rifle or pistol ranges or shooting galleries approved by
the Village Board where proper safety precautions are taken.
   (e)   Explosive devices. No person shall discharge or detonate any dynamite,
nitroglycerin, or other explosive within the village without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the Village Board.
   (f)   Throwing or shooting of arrows, stones, or other missiles prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause the
discharge of any dangerous missile from any slingshot, bow and arrow, or other
means within 300 feet of any inhabited dwelling (other than one owned by such
person) or building or any public park, square, or enclosure.
      (2)   This subsection (f) shall not apply:
         a.   To the shooting or discharging of toy arrows or arrows which have
a tip made of rubber or similar material;
         b.   To a supervised archery range approved by the Village Board; and/
or
         c.   Within the interior of a single-family dwelling.
   (g)   Definition. For purposes of this section, a FIREARM is defined as any
instrumentality from or with which a shot, bullet, or pellet may be discharged
or expelled, regardless of whether the propelling force is provided by air,
spring, or other similar mechanical device, or gun powder.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1)
§ 11-2-2 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS PROHIBITED; CERTAIN WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Concealed weapons prohibited.
      (1)   Prohibition. No person shall, within the village, wear or in any
manner carry under his or her clothes or conceal upon or about his or her
person any deadly or dangerous weapon, provided this subsection (a) shall not
apply to a peace officer or such persons as may be authorized to carry such
weapons.
      (2)   Dangerous weapon defined. DANGEROUS WEAPON means any firearm,
whether loaded or unloaded, or any device designed as a weapon and capable of
producing death or great bodily harm, or any other device or instrumentality
which, in the manner it is used or intended to be used, is calculated or likely
to produce death or great bodily harm.
   (b)   Concealed weapons in public establishments. No person shall carry or
be possessed of a dangerous weapon in any public building or business
establishment open to the public except a bona fide weapons repair, display, or
sales establishment, unless such dangerous weapon is so stored and concealed
(other than on the person) so as not to be readily accessible to any person or
patron. This subsection (b) shall not apply to peace officers or others duly
authorized by law acting within the scope of their duties. This subsection (b)
shall not be construed to prohibit the sale, purchase, repair, or trade of
firearms by a retail business establishment doing so in the course of its
regular business in accord with state and federal law, nor to hinder a
prospective customer from attempting to buy, sell, or trade firearms to or from
a retailer.
   (c)   Specific concealed weapons prohibited. No person, except a law
enforcement officer acting within the scope of their duties, shall carry or
wear concealed about his or her person any pistol, revolver, firearm,
slingshot, crossknuckle of lead, brass, or other materials, bowie knife,
switchblade, dirk, or dagger, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon within
the village.
   (d)   Possession, sale, and manufacture of certain weapons prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall sell, manufacture, purchase, possess, or carry
metallic knuckles or knuckles of any substance which could be put to the same
use with the same or similar effect as metallic knuckles, a “nunchuck” (also
called a “nunchaku”) or any similar weapon, a “cestus” or similar material
weighted with metal or other substance and worn on the hand, a “churkin” (also
called a “sunken”), or any similar object intended to injure a person when
thrown, a “sucbai” or similar weapon, a “manrikigusari” or a similar length of
chain having weighted ends, or any other martial arts device or instrumentality
which, in the manner it is used or intended to be used, is calculated or likely
to produce injury or death to another person within the village.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
         CHURKIN. A round throwing knife consisting of several sharp points
protruding from a rounded disc.
         NUNCHUCK OR NUNCHAKU. An instrument consisting of two or more sticks,
clubs, or rods connected by a rope, cord, wire, or chain.
         SUCBAI. A short length of wood or metal or similar material which,
when gripped in the hand, protrudes on either side of the fist. Such prohibited
instrument may or may not have spikes or short pointed protrusions from either
end.
      (3)   Any such device shall be seized by a law enforcement officer and
destroyed or turned over to the State Crime Laboratory for destruction.
   (e)   Reckless use of weapons.
      (1)   Acts prohibited.
         a.   No person shall endanger another’s safety by reckless conduct in
the operation or handling of a firearm, air gun, knife, or bow and arrow.
         b.   No person shall operate or go armed with a firearm, air gun,
knife, or bow and arrow while he or she is under the influence of an
intoxicant.
         c.   No person shall intentionally point a firearm, air gun, knife, or
bow and arrow at or toward another person.
      (2)   Reckless conduct defined. RECKLESS CONDUCT consists of an act which
creates a situation of unreasonable risk and high probability of death or great
bodily harm to another, and which demonstrates a conscious disregard for the
safety of another and a willingness to take chances of perpetrating an injury.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
§ 11-2-3 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Obstructing streets. No person shall obstruct, loiter, cause a
nuisance, or engage in any sport or exercise on any public street, sidewalk,
bridge, or public ground within the village in such a manner as to:
      (1)   Prevent or obstruct the free passage of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic thereon;
      (2)   Prevent or hinder free ingress or egress to or from any place of
business or amusement, church, public hall, or meeting place; or
      (3)   Cause a nuisance by congregating and hindering the free passage of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (b)   Obstructing sidewalk prohibited. No person shall block any sidewalk or
bridge by obstructing the same so that it is impossible for a pedestrian to
travel along the sidewalk without leaving the sidewalk and walking on adjacent
property or on the street.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      LOITER. To sit, stand, loaf, lounge, wander, or stroll in an aimless
manner or to stop, pause, or remain in an area for no obvious reason.
      NUISANCE. Unnecessary conduct which may tend to annoy, intimidate,
threaten, or otherwise disturb another in or about any public street, sidewalk,
bridge, or public ground which is offensive to the public morals or decency of
the citizens of the village.
      OBSTRUCT. To interfere with unobstructed travel by any means, including,
but not limited to, standing on the part of the walk that is fit for travel, or
placing any object or vehicle whatsoever on such sidewalk.
      SIDEWALK. Any sidewalk owned or maintained by the village. The term shall
not include sidewalks or walkways on private property in shopping centers,
apartment complexes, office building sites, or any other private property.
   (d)   Free speech. This section shall not be interpreted as prohibiting any
person from stopping on any sidewalk to talk or to make a speech, provided that
such person shall not stand in such a location that it is impossible for any
pedestrian to travel along the sidewalk without leaving the sidewalk and
walking on adjacent property or on the street. If two or more persons are
engaged in talking while stopped on a sidewalk, they shall not stand in such
locations as to completely prevent any pedestrian from passing them on the
sidewalk,
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3)
§ 11-2-4 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if
it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4)
§ 11-2-5 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any loud and
unnecessary noise. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wantonly to
use or operate, or to cause to be used or operated any mechanical device,
machine, apparatus, or instrument for intensification or amplification of the
human voice, or any sound or noise in any public or private place in such
manner that the peace and good order of the neighborhood is disturbed or that
persons owning, using, or occupying property in the neighborhood are disturbed
or annoyed.
   (b)   Types of loud and unnecessary noises. The following acts are declared
to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this section,
but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public
place in the village for longer than three seconds in any period of one minute
or less, except as a danger warning; the creation of any unreasonable loud or
harsh sound by means of any signaling device and the sounding of any plainly
audible device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of
any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any
horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust and the use of any
signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, similar devices. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in a loud and unnecessary manner. The operation of any
set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or device between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. in a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of the
building, structure, or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting attention of
the public to any building or structure. Announcements over loudspeakers can
only be made by the announcer in person and without the aid of any mechanical
device.
      (4)   Animals, birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which causes
frequent or long continued unnecessary noise.
      (5)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper village authorities.
      (6)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or motor boat except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises there from. It is further expressly declared a violation of
this subsection (b) for any person operating a truck to utilize a compression
brake while within the corporate limits of the village unless emergency
circumstances require the use of such compression brakes. EMERGENCY
CIRCUMSTANCES mean only those instances where a truck is at immediate risk of
being unable to brake adequately so as to avoid a collision or other violation
of law.
      (7)   Construction or repair of buildings. The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, as well as the
operation of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam,
or electric hoist, or any other similar equipment attended by loud or unusual
noise, other than between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays;
provided, however, the Village President shall have the authority, upon
determining that the loss of inconvenience which would result to any party in
interest would be extraordinary and of such nature as to warrant special
consideration, to grant a permit for a period necessary within which time such
work and operation may take place within the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:30 a.m.
      (8)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or
court while in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes
with the normal operation of that institution, or which disturbs or unduly
annoys patients in the hospital provided that conspicuous signs are displayed
in those streets indicating a school, hospital, or court street. No person,
while on public or private grounds adjacent to any building, or while within
any building in which a school or any class thereof is in session, shall
willfully make or assist in the making of any noise or diversion which disturbs
or tends to disturb the peace or good order and operation of such school
session or class thereof.
      (9)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   Any vehicle of the village while engaged in necessary public
business;
         b.   Excavations or repairs of streets or other public construction by
or on behalf of the village, county, or state at night when public welfare and
convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day; and
         c.   The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of
public addresses which are noncommercial in nature.
   (c)   Permits for amplifying devices.
      (1)   Permit required. The use of loudspeakers or amplifying devices on
the streets or in the parks of the village is prohibited unless the party
desiring to use such loudspeaker or amplifying device first obtains a permit
from the Village Board.
      (2)   Grounds or reasons for denial or allowance. The Village Board shall
have the authority to revoke such permit when he or she believes such
loudspeaker or amplifying device is becoming a nuisance because of the volume,
the method in which it is being used or the location in which it is being
operated.
      (3)   Time restrictions. The Village Board shall not grant a permit to
use an outdoor loudspeaker or amplifying device before the hours of 9:00 a.m.
or after 12:30 a.m. No permit shall be granted to anyone who, in the opinion of
the Village Board, uses said loudspeaker or amplifying device in such a manner
or for such a purpose as to constitute a nuisance.
   (d)   Stationary noise limits.
      (1)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, on private
property any source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level which
exceeds the following limits when measured at any point beyond 25 feet from the
boundary line of the property which constitutes the noise source:
         a.   Seventy-five dBA between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
and, during that portion of each year for which the standard time is advanced
under Wis. Stats. § 175.095 (daylight saving time) between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 9:00 p.m.; or
         b.   Seventy dBA between the hours of 7:00 p.m, and 7:00 a.m., except
as stated in subsection (d)(1)a. above when the standard time is advanced.
      (2)   Sound levels under this subsection (d) shall be measured with a
Type 1 sound level meter manufactured according to standards prescribed by the
American National Standards Institute in specification SIA (revised 1971).
Measurements shall be made using an “A” weighted network of the sound level
meter. Under this subsection (d), noises capable of being accurately measured
with such equipment shall be deemed to be those noises which cause fluctuations
of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more than plus or
minus two decibels.
   (e)   Special permits. The Village Board, at its discretion, may issue any
individual, group, or business organization a temporary permit to allow for
special occasions and/or events.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-5) (Ord. passed 2-17-2003)
§ 11-2-6 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   Disorderly conduct prohibited. No person within the village shall:
      (1)   In any public or private place engage in violent, noisy, riotous,
abusive, indecent, profane, boisterous, unreasonably loud, or otherwise
disorderly conduct which tends to cause or provoke an immediate disturbance of
public order, or tends to annoy or disturb any other person;
      (2)   Intentionally cause, provoke, or engage in any fight, brawl, riot,
or noisy altercation;
      (3)   With intent to annoy another, make a telephone call, whether or not
conversation ensues;
      (4)   Indecently expose his or her person; and/or
      (5)   Be in any business or private structure, private vehicle, or upon
any private grounds without the consent of the owner.
   (b)   Defecating or urinating in public places. It shall be unlawful for any
person to defecate or urinate outside of designed sanitary facilities, upon any
sidewalk, street, alley, public parking lot, park, playground, cemetery, or
other public area within the village, or upon any private property in open view
of the public, or in the halls, rooms without restroom facilities, stairways,
or elevators of public or commercial buildings, or to indecently expose his or
her person.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-6)
§ 11-2-7 UNAUTHORIZED PRESENCE ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (a)   Unauthorized presence.
      (1)   No student who is under suspension, expulsion, or other
disciplinary procedures excluding him or her from attending any public school
located within the village, or any person not a student presently enrolled or
not an employee of such schools or not a parent or guardian of a student, or
not an otherwise “authorized person,” shall be present within any school
building or upon any school grounds without having first secured authorization
to be there from the principal or other person in charge of the school building
or school grounds, except while in direct route to secure such authorization.
      (2)   Any unauthorized person who shall come upon school property and
refuses to leave upon request by the school principal or any person acting
under the direction of the school principal, in addition to violating
subsection (a)(1), shall be guilty of trespass.
      (3)   AUTHORIZED PERSON shall include:
         a.   Any person who is present at any school building or school
grounds for the purpose previously authorized by the school, or their designee;
         b.   Any person transporting a student and who utilizes the driveway
specified for loading and unloading personnel; and
         c.   Any person utilizing a designated area for attending an athletic
or other organized school event.
   (b)   Disorderly conduct on public school property.
      (1)   No person shall, on any school property or building, engage in
violent, abusive, loud, or otherwise disorderly conduct which causes or
provokes an immediate disturbance of public order or disturbs or annoys any
other person; nor shall a person intentionally engage in any fight, brawl,
riot, or noisy altercation other than a bona fide athletic contest.
      (2)   Non-students, students from schools other than the school on the
property or students from a school who are not in compliance with the school
system’s published rules and regulations shall be considered in violation of
this section. The published rules and regulations of the school system are
incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
      (3)   All entrances to the school buildings referred to in subsection (a)
above shall be posted with a notice stating “Entry Into School Building by
Unauthorized Person Prohibited.”
      (4)   UNAUTHORIZED PRESENCE shall include any vehicle that is found on
school property which has not received permission to be there. If the occupants
or owners are not on school property for some legitimate business or activity
or are parked in an area that regulates parking to certain authorized vehicles,
they are in violation. Such vehicle may be issued a village summons that
regulates parking or may be towed away at the direction of the school principal
or person in charge of such school building. Law enforcement officers may also
have any vehicle towed away which, because of its location, creates a hazard to
life or property.
   (c)   Loitering near school prohibited. No person not in official attendance
or on official school business shall enter into, congregate, loiter, or cause a
nuisance in any school building in the village or upon any school district
grounds or within adjacent posted school zones on any day when such schools are
in session.
   (d)   Possession of intoxicating liquor and fermented malt beverages. No
person shall possess intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages while on
any school property.
   (e)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      LOITER. To sit, stand, loaf, lounge, wander, or stroll in an aimless
manner or to stop, pause, or remain in an area for no obvious reason.
      NUISANCE. Unnecessary conduct which may tend to annoy, intimidate,
threaten, or otherwise disturb another in or about any public street, sidewalk,
bridge, or public ground which is offensive to the public morals or decency of
the citizens of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-7)
§ 11-2-8 HARASSMENT.
   (a)   Harassment. No person, with intent to harass or intimidate another
person, shall do any of the following (each instance shall be considered a
separate violation).
      (1)   Strike, shove, kick, or otherwise subject the person to physical
contact or attempts or threatens to do the same.
      (2)   Engage in a course of conduct or repeatedly commits acts which
harass or intimidate the person and which serve no legitimate purpose.
   (b)   Harassing or obscene telephone calls. Whoever commits any of the
following acts shall be subject to the general penalty as provided in this code
of ordinances.
      (1)   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, or indecent.
      (2)   Makes a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass any person at the called number or
numbers.
      (3)   Makes or causes the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number or numbers.
      (4)   Makes repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
solely to harass any person at the called number or numbers.
      (5)   Knowingly permits any telephone under his or her control to be used
for any purpose prohibited by this section.
      (6)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons makes repeated
calls, or simultaneous calls solely to harass any person at the called number
or numbers.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-8)
§ 11-2-9 OPEN CISTERNS, WELLS, BASEMENTS, OR OTHER DANGEROUS EXCAVATIONS
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall have or permit on any premises owned or occupied by
him or her any open cisterns, cesspools, wells, unused basements, excavations,
or other dangerous openings.
   (b)   All such places shall be filled, securely covered, or fenced in such
manner as to prevent injury to any person, and any cover shall be of a design,
size, and weight that the same cannot be removed by small children.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-9)
§ 11-2-10 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Purpose. It is recognized that smoking of tobacco-related products is
hazardous to the health of both smokers and nonsmokers who are exposed to
smoking. Reliable scientific studies, including studies conducted by the
Surgeon General of the United States, have shown that breathing sidestream or
secondhand smoke is a significant health hazard to nonsmokers, particularly to
children, elderly people, individuals with cardiovascular disease, and
individuals with impaired respiratory function, including asthmatics and those
with obstructive airway disease. Health hazards induced by breathing sidestream
or secondhand smoke include lung cancer, respiratory infection, decreased
respiratory function, decreased exercise tolerance, bronchoconstriction, and
bronchospasm. This section is adopted for the purpose of protecting the public
health, safety, comfort, and general welfare of the people of the village,
especially recognizing the health interests of nonsmokers, who constitute a
majority of the population.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. § 49.45(47)
(a).
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. §
254.61(1).
      CHILDCARE FACILITY. Any licensed or certified childcare facility,
including, but not limited to, licensed family daycare or licensed group
daycare centers, licensed day camps, certified school age programs, and Head
Start programs.
      CIGARETTE. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. § 139.30(1).
      ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways) which extend from
the floor to the ceiling.
      ENTRANCE. A doorway and adjacent area which gives direct access to a
building from a contiguous street, plaza, sidewalk, or parking lot.
      HEALTHCARE FACILITY. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. § 155.01(6).
      HOTEL AND MOTEL. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. § 254.61(3).
      MALL. An enclosed indoor area containing common areas and discrete
businesses and stores primarily devoted to the retail sale of goods and
services.
      MEDICAL SERVICES. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. § 647.01(6).
      NONSMOKING. Smoking is prohibited.
      PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An enclosed area controlled by the employer which
employees normally frequent during the course of employment, including, but not
limited to, common work areas, private offices, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference and meeting rooms, classrooms, healthcare facilities, cafeterias,
stairways, hallways, vehicles, and all other enclosed facilities. A private
residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT within the meaning of this section.
      PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain and which only sells alcohol beverages incidental to its
operation. The affairs and management of the PRIVATE CLUB are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members
at an annual meeting. The PRIVATE CLUB has established bylaws and/or a
constitution to govern the club’s activities. The PRIVATE CLUB has been granted
an exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C.A.
§ 501.
      PRIVATE RESIDENCE. A premises owned, rented, or leased for temporary or
permanent habitation.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in
which the public is permitted. A PRIVATE RESIDENCE is not a public place unless
it is used as a childcare facility, adult daycare facility, or healthcare
facility.
      SMOKING. To inhale, exhale, carry, possess, or control any lighted
cigarette or any lighted tobacco product in any form or in any manner.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. The meaning set forth in Wis. Stats. § 139.75(12).
   (c)   Smoking prohibited in public places. Except as provided in subsection
(f) below, smoking in any public place shall be unlawful, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Theatres, libraries, museums, auditoriums, and convention halls,
which are used by or open to the public;
      (2)   Childcare facilities;
      (3)   Adult daycare facilities;
      (4)   Retail stores;
      (5)   Healthcare facilities;
      (6)   Waiting rooms, hallways, or rooms of healthcare laboratories;
      (7)   Waiting rooms, hallways, and rooms in offices of any physician,
dentist, psychologist, chiropractor, optometrist, optician, or other medical
service provider;
      (8)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, and other multiple-unit
residential facilities;
      (9)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common
areas, which are used by or open to the public;
      (10)   Meeting and conference rooms in which people gather for
educational, business, professional, union, governmental, recreational,
political, or social purposes;
      (11)   Polling places;
      (12)   Self-service laundry facilities;
      (13)   Restaurants;
      (14)   Bars, taverns, nightclubs, and cocktail lounges;
      (15)   Common areas of malls, meaning those areas within a mall
customarily accessible to patrons;
      (16)   Village facilities, meaning all village-owned and operated
buildings and those portions of buildings leased and operated by the village
and all village-owned and operated vehicles and equipment;
      (17)   Village cabs;
      (18)   Educational facilities, meaning any building used principally for
educational purposes in which a school is located or a course of instruction or
training program is offered that has been approved or licensed by a state
agency or board;
      (19)   Sports arenas, meaning sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums,
health spas, swimming pools, roller and indoor ice rinks, bowling centers, and
other similar places where the public assembles to engage in physical exercise,
participate in athletic event competition, or witness a sporting or other
event; and
      (20)   Common areas in bed and breakfast establishments, hotels and
motels, and rooms thereof that are rented to guests and designated as
nonsmoking rooms, including lobbies, community rooms, hallways, laundry rooms,
stairwells, elevators, enclosed parking facilities, pool areas, and restrooms
within said facilities.
   (d)   Smoking prohibited in places of employment.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (f) below, smoking in any place of
employment shall be unlawful.
      (2)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees prior to the effective date of this section, and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
   (e)   Smoking prohibited in specified outdoor areas. Smoking shall be
unlawful in the following areas.
      (1)   Within 20 feet of all outside entrances to, operable windows of, or
ventilation systems of public places or places of employment where smoking is
prohibited pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) above so as to prevent smoke
from entering said enclosed areas in which smoking is prohibited.
      (2)   In the seating areas of all outdoor arenas, stadiums, and
amphitheaters, as well as in the bleachers and grandstands used by spectators
at sporting and other public events, including, without limitation, football
and baseball stadiums.
      (3)   Those portions of village parks temporarily posted as no smoking
areas by the Parks and Recreation Department at the request of a park permit
holder or park facility lessee or when necessary for the public health or
safety.
      (4)   Those areas outside of village facilities that are posted as no
smoking by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, or his or her designee.
   (f)   Exceptions. The following shall not be subject to and are exempt from
the smoking prohibitions of this section.
      (1)   Use of tobacco by an enrolled member of an Indian tribe, as those
terms are defined in Wis. Stats. § 139.30(4) and (5), as part of a traditional
spiritual or cultural ceremony.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast establishments and hotel and motel rooms that are
rented to guests and are designated as smoking rooms, provided that not more
than 25% of the rooms rented to guests are designated as smoking rooms. This
exception does not include common areas as defined in subsection (c) above.
      (3)   Private residences, except when used as a childcare facility, adult
daycare facility, or healthcare facility.
      (4)   Private clubs, except when used for a function to which the public
is invited or permitted to enter. This exception shall not apply to any
organization established to avoid compliance with the section.
   (g)   Signs required.
      (1)   Signs prohibiting smoking shall be posted conspicuously at every
entrance by the proprietor or other person in charge of each building or
structure regulated by subsections (c) and (d) above. Signs in specified
outdoor areas designated as nonsmoking pursuant to subsection (e) above shall
be placed so that the general public has reasonable notice of the prohibition.
Signs shall contain a reference that regulation is by ordinance, such as “No
Smoking - Village Ordinance Chapter 11-2-10,” or equivalent. A sign shall not
be smaller than eight and one-half by five and one-half inches, except that
signs in specified outdoor areas may be reduced in size and displayed on
tabletop tents or menus.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, or destroy
any legally required “No Smoking” sign.
   (h)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The proprietor or other person in charge of premises regulated
hereunder shall make reasonable efforts to prevent smoking in prohibited areas
by:
         a.   Approaching persons who fail to voluntarily comply with this
section and requesting that they extinguish their smoking material and refrain
from smoking upon witnessing the same, or upon request from any person; or
         b.   Any other means, which may be deemed appropriate by said
proprietor, including refusal of service to anyone smoking in a prohibited
area.
      (2)   No proprietor or other person in charge of premises regulated by
this section shall place, provide, or make available any ashtray or similar
device used to facilitate smoking in an area where smoking is prohibited.
      (3)   Any person who desires to register a complaint under this section
may contact the Police Department.
      (4)   No person shall discharge, refuse to hire, refuse to serve, or in
any other manner retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment,
customer, service user, business patron, or any other person because that
person exercises any rights afforded by this section.
      (5)   The Building Inspections Division, Fire Department, Police
Department, or Parks and Recreation Department shall have the power, whenever
it may deem necessary, to enter a building, structure, or property regulated
under this chapter to ascertain whether the premises are in compliance with
this section. The above-listed Departments may issue compliance orders and
citations pursuant to the provisions of this code.
   (i)   Additional private prohibitions. Nothing in this section shall prevent
a proprietor or other person in charge of any place from prohibiting smoking in
any indoor or outdoor area under their control.
   (j)   Other applicable laws or regulations. This section shall not be
interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by
any other law or regulation.
   (k)   Liberal construction. This section shall be liberally construed to
achieve the purposes set forth in this section.
   (l)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall
be required to forfeit not less than $50 nor more than $500. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (m)   Severability. The provisions of this section are severable. If any
provision of this section is held to be invalid or unconstitutional, or if the
application of any provision of this section to any person or circumstance is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect the other
provisions or applications of this section which can be given effect without
the invalid or unconstitutional provisions or applications. It is hereby
declared to be the intent of the Village Board that this section would have
been adopted had any invalid or unconstitutional provisions or applications not
been included herein.
(Ord.
11-2-10, passed 7-19-2010)
§ 11-2-11 NUISANCE.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      POLICE. The Village Police Department.
      REPEATED. More than two in any six-month period.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin.
   (b)   Legal justification. A call is “legally justified” or “legally
justifiable” under this section if the call is to report a violation of an
ordinance of the village or a violation of the statute of the state, which,
upon investigation, results in the issuance of a municipal citation, arrest,
and/or referral to either the Village Attorney or District Attorney for
charging and prosecution.
   (c)   Repeated police calls.
      (1)   If any person in the village called the police more than once
within a six-month period, the caller shall be liable for penalties provided
below if:
         a.   The call or any calls are not legally justified;
         b.   The calls involve the same activity or the same alleged
perpetrators and if the caller has reason to believe that the complaint
regarding the activity or behavior is not legally justified; or
         c.   The caller has other recourse to avoid the activity or behavior
which precipitates the call, and if the caller has reason to believe that the
complaint regarding the activity or behavior is not legally justified.
      (2)   If any person in the village is the subject of repeated legally
unjustifiable calls to the police, that person shall be liable for the
penalties provided below.
   (d)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating subsection (c)(1) above shall receive a
citation upon the second unjustified call with a penalty of not less than $250,
plus usual costs.
      (2)   Any person violating subsection (c)(1) above for a third time shall
receive a citation for not less than $250 plus usual costs and shall, in
addition, pay restitution to the village for the actual costs of the police
response, but not less than $250.
      (3)   Any person violating subsection (c)(2) above shall, in addition to
any citation issued for the offense, upon the third call within six months, be
liable for restitution to the village for the actual cost of the police
response, but not less than $100.
(Ord.
11-2-11, passed 10-25-2010)
CHAPTER 3: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
11-3-1   Littering prohibited
   
11-3-2   Abandoned refrigerators prohibited
   
11-3-3   Theft of library material
   
11-3-4   Cemetery regulations
   
11-3-5   Damage to public property
   
11-3-6   Retail theft
   
11-3-7   Trespass to a dwelling or land
   
11-3-8   Regulation of smoking
   
11-3-9   Issuance of worthless checks
§ 11-3-1 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Littering prohibited. No person shall throw any glass, refuse, or
waste, filth, or other litter upon the streets, alleys, highways, public parks,
or other property of the village, or upon property within the village owned by
the school district or any private person, or upon the surface of any body of
water within the village.
   (b)   Litter from conduct of commercial enterprise.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this subsection (b) shall apply to all
sales, promotions, and other commercial ventures that result in litter being
deposited on any street, alley, or other public way.
      (2)   Litter to be cleaned up. Any person, firm, corporation, or
association carrying on an enterprise that results in litter being deposited on
any street, alley, or other public way shall clean up the same within 12 hours
of the time the same is deposited. If any such litter is subject to being blown
about, it shall be picked up immediately. If any such litter is likely to
attract animals or vermin, such litter shall be picked up immediately.
      (3)   Litter picked up at litterer’s expense. If any person, firm,
corporation, or association fails to pick up any litter as required by
subsection (b)(1) above within the time specified, the village shall arrange to
have the same picked up by village crews or by private enterprise. The entire
expense of picking up such litter, together with an additional charge of 20%
for administrative expenses, shall be charged to the person, firm, corporation,
or association that did the littering. If such sum is not promptly paid, steps
shall be taken, with the advice of the Village Attorney’s office, to collect
the same. This charge shall be in addition to any forfeiture or other penalty
for violation of this section.
   (c)   Depositing of materials prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, cause, or permit to
be deposited, placed, or parked any vegetation, grass, leaves, foliage, earth,
sand, gravel, water, snow, ice, debris, waste material, foreign substance,
construction materials, equipment or object upon any street, sidewalk, or
public property without authorization of the Village Board or Director of
Public Works to the provisions of this code of ordinances, or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or lessee of the property.
      (2)   Any person who deposits, causes, or permits to be deposited,
placed, or parked any such materials, equipment, or objects upon any street,
sidewalk, or property shall be responsible to properly mark or barricade the
area so as to prevent a safety hazard.
   (d)   Handbills.
      (1)   Scattering prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deliver any
handbills or advertising material to any premises in the village except by
being handed to the recipient, placed on the porch, stoop, or entrance way of
the building or firmly affixed to a building so as to prevent any such articles
from being blown about, becoming scattered or in anyway causing litter.
      (2)   Papers in public places prohibited. It shall be unlawful to leave
any handbills, advertising material, or newspapers unattended in any street,
alley, public building, or other public place, provided that this shall not
prohibit the sale of newspapers in vending machines.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)
§ 11-3-2 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave or permit to remain outside of any dwelling, building,
or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling,
or other structure under his or her control in a place accessible to children
any abandoned, unattended, or discarded ice box, refrigerator, or other
container which has an airtight door or lid, snap lock, or other locking device
which may not be released from the inside without first removing said door or
lid, snap lock, or other locking device from said ice box, refrigerator, or
container, unless such container is displayed for sale on the premises of the
owner, or his or her agent, and is securely locked or fastened.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 11-3-3 THEFT OF LIBRARY MATERIAL.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ARCHIVES. A place in which public or institutional records are
systematically preserved.
      LIBRARY. Any public library, library of an educational or historical
organization or society or museum, and specifically the public libraries within
the village and school libraries.
      LIBRARY MATERIAL. Includes any book, plate, picture photograph,
engraving, painting, drawing, map, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet, broadside,
manuscript, document, letter, public record, microform, sound recording,
audiovisual materials in any format, magnetic or other tapes, electronic data
processing records, or other tapes, artifacts, or other documents, written or
printed materials, regardless of physical form of characteristics, belonging
to, on loan to or otherwise in the custody of a library.
   (b)   Possession without consent prohibited. Whoever intentionally takes and
carries away, transfers, conceals, or retains possession of any library
material without the consent of a library official, agent, or employee and with
intent to deprive the library of possession of the material may be subject to a
forfeiture as provided by the general penalty provisions of this code. The
failure to return library material after its proper return date, after written
notice from the library and Village Attorney, shall be deemed to be theft.
Notice shall be considered given when written notice is mailed to the last-
known address of the person with the overdue material; the notice date shall be
the date of mailing.
   (c)   Concealment. The concealment of library material beyond the last
station for borrowing library material in a library is evidence of intent to
deprive the library of possession of the material. The discovery of library
material which has not been borrowed in accordance with the library’s
procedures or taken with consent of a library official, agent, or employee and
which is concealed upon the person or among the belongings of another is
evidence of intentional concealment on the part of the person so concealing the
material.
   (d)   Detention based on probable cause. An official or adult employee or
agent of a library who has probable cause for believing that a person has
violated this section in his or her presence may detain the person in a
reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time to deliver the person to a
law enforcement officer or to the person’s parent or guardian in the case of a
minor. The detained person shall be promptly informed of the purpose of the
detention and be permitted to make telephone calls, but shall not be
interrogated or searched against his or her will before the arrival of a law
enforcement officer who may conduct a lawful interrogation of the accused
person. Compliance with this section entitles the official, agent, or employee
effecting the detention to the same defense in any action as is available to a
peace officer making an arrest in the line of duty.
   (e)   Damaging material prohibited. No person shall mar, deface, or in any
other way damage or mutilate any book, periodical, pamphlet, picture, or other
article or property belonging to or in charge of the library. Any person
convicted of violating this subsection (e) shall be subject to the penalties as
set forth in §
1-1-6.
   (f)   Return demanded. No person shall fail, on demand, to return any book
periodical, pamphlet, picture, or other articles or property belonging to or in
charge of the Village Public Library according to the rules or regulations duly
made and adopted by the Library Board, and no person shall remove from the
library any book, periodical, pamphlet, picture, or other articles or property
without first having it charged as provided by such rules and regulations. Any
person convicted of violating any provision of this subsection (f) shall be
subject to the penalties as set forth in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 943.61
§ 11-3-4 CEMETERY REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Purpose and definition. In order to protect cemetery areas within the
village from injury, damage, or desecration, these regulations are enacted. The
term CEMETERY as hereinafter used in this section shall include all cemetery
property, grounds, equipment, and structures, both privately and publicly
owned, which are located within the village.
   (b)   Authority to establish rules and regulations. The cemetery property
owner shall have the authority to establish reasonable rules and regulations to
regulate and govern the operation of any cemetery in accordance with state law
and this code of ordinances. The cemetery property owner shall reserve the
right to prohibit and regulate the planting or placement of any flowers,
plants, vines, shrubs, trees, flower pots, urns, or other objects on cemetery
property. Placements of any such plantings, containers, or objects shall be in
accordance with established regulations of the cemetery property owner.
   (c)   Specific regulations.
      (1)   Disturbing cemetery property. No person shall cut, remove, damage,
or carry away any flowers, plants, vines, shrubs, or trees from any cemetery
lot or property except the owner of the cemetery lot or a person with the
cemetery lot owner’s consent or any cemetery employee or representative engaged
in official cemetery duties for the cemetery owner; nor shall any person
without proper authority remove, deface, mark, or damage in any manner any
cemetery markers, headstones, monuments, fences, or structures; nor shall any
person without proper authority remove, damage, or destroy any vases, flower
pots, urns, or other objects which have been placed on any cemetery lot; nor
shall any person move or remove any cemetery equipment without the owner’s
consent.
      (2)   Protection of cemetery property. No person shall trap in any
cemetery without specific written authorization or the owner; nor shall any
person kill, injure, or disturb, or attempt to injure or disturb, any animals,
birds, or waterfowl, wild or domestic, within any cemetery in any manner except
as provided by this code of ordinances; nor shall any person climb any tree,
break, cut down, trample upon, remove, or in any manner injure, deface, write
upon, or in any manner damage any tree, shrub, flower, flower bed, turf, grassy
area, soil, building, structure, equipment, official notice, sign, or other
property within any cemetery. No picnic, parties, or similar gatherings are
permitted.
      (3)   Motor vehicles. Motor vehicles are restricted to the roads and
drives and parking areas. Except for authorized maintenance vehicles, no person
shall operate an unlicensed or licensed motorized vehicle on any cemetery
property outside of areas specifically designated as parking areas or areas
where the operation of such vehicles is specifically permitted. It shall be
unlawful for a person to engage in any off-roadway operation of a motorized
vehicle on cemetery property without the owner’s consent.
      (4)   Speed limit. No person shall operate any motorized vehicle in any
cemetery in excess of 15 miles per hour unless otherwise posted.
      (5)   Parking. No person, without the owner’s consent, shall park any
motor vehicle in any cemetery on any grassy or seeded area, or upon any
location except a designated parking area; nor shall any person park a motor
vehicle on cemetery property for any purpose except engaging in official
cemetery business. Any unlawfully parked motor vehicle may be towed or removed
by the cemetery property owner at the vehicle owner’s expense.
      (6)   Littering prohibited. No person shall litter, dump, or deposit any
rubbish, refuse, earth, or other material in any cemetery without the owner’s
consent.
      (7)   Pets. Pets, including animals of any species, and horses are
prohibited in any cemetery.
      (8)   Sound devices. No person shall operate or play any amplifying
system or sound device in any cemetery without the owner’s consent.
      (9)   Authorized notices. No person shall post, paste, fasten, paint, or
attach any placard, bill, notice, sign, or advertising matter upon any
structure, tree, or other natural object in any cemetery, except cemetery
regulations and other signs authorized by the owner. No person shall remove,
deface, or damage in any manner any official sign or notice posted in any
cemetery.
      (10)   Loitering prohibited. No person shall loiter or cause a nuisance
or engage in any sport or exercise on any cemetery property without the owner’s
consent.
      (11)   Alcoholic beverages prohibited. No person shall consume or have in
his or her possession any open container containing an alcohol beverage upon
any cemetery property within the village unless the property is specifically
named as being part of a licensed premises.
      (12)   Play vehicles prohibited. No person shall operate or make use of a
play vehicle upon any cemetery property without the owner’s consent. As used in
this section, a play vehicle shall mean any coaster, skateboard, roller skates,
sled, toboggan, unicycle, or toy vehicle upon which a person may ride.
      (13)   Presence after hours prohibited. No person shall be present upon
any cemetery property without the owner’s consent during posted hours when the
cemetery is not open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)
§ 11-3-5 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   Damaging public property. No person shall climb any tree or pluck any
flowers or fruit, wild or cultivated, or break, cut down, trample upon, remove,
or in any manner injure or deface, write upon, defile, or ill use any tree,
shrub, flower, flower bed, turf, fountain, ornament, statue, building, fence,
apparatus, bench, table, official notice, sign, bridge, structure, or other
property within any park or parkway, or in any way injure, damage, or deface
any public building, sidewalk, or other public property in the village.
   (b)   Breaking of street lamps or windows. No person shall break glass in
any street lamps or windows of any building owned or occupied by the village.
   (c)   Damaging fire hydrants and water mains. No person shall, without the
authority of village authorities, operate any valve connected with the street
or water supply mains, or open any fire hydrant connected with the water
distribution system, except for the purpose of extinguishing a fire. No person
shall injure or impair the use of any water main or fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5)
§ 11-3-6 RETAIL THEFT.
   (a)   Whoever intentionally alters indicia of price or value of merchandise
or takes and carries away, transfers, conceals, or retains possession of
merchandise held for resale by a merchant without consent and with intent to
deprive the merchant permanently of possession or the full purchase price may
be penalized as provided in subsection (d) below.
   (b)   The intentional concealment of unpurchased merchandise which continues
from one floor to another or beyond the last station for receiving payments in
a merchant’s store is evidence of intent to deprive the merchant permanently of
possession of such merchandise without paying the purchase price thereof. The
discovery of unpurchased merchandise concealed upon the person or among the
belongings of another is evidence of intentional concealment on the part of the
person so concealing such goods.
   (c)   (1)   A merchant or merchant’s adult employee who has probable cause
for believing that a person has violated this section in his or her presence
may detain such person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time
to deliver him or her to a peace officer, or to his or her parent or guardian
if a minor.
      (2)   The detained person must be promptly informed of the purpose for
the detention and may make phone calls, but he or she shall not be interrogated
or searched against his or her will before the arrival of a police officer who
may conduct a lawful interrogation of the accused person. Compliance with this
subsection (c) entitles the merchant or his or her employee affecting the
detention to the same defense in any action as is available to a peace officer
making an arrest in the line of duty.
   (d)   If the value of the merchandise does not exceed $500, any person
violating this section shall forfeit not more than $200. If the value of the
merchandise exceeds $500, this section shall not apply and the matter shall be
referred to the District Attorney for criminal prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 943.50
§ 11-3-7 TRESPASS TO A DWELLING OR LAND.
   (a)   Trespass to land. No person shall enter or remain on any land after
having been notified by the owner or lawful occupant thereof not to remain on
the premises. Further, no person shall enter or remain on any land upon which
they are not lawfully present.
   (b)   Trespass to dwelling. No person shall enter the dwelling of another
without the consent of some person lawfully upon the premises. DWELLING shall
include, but is not limited to, a structure or part of a structure that is used
or intended to be used as a home or residence by one or more persons to the
exclusion of all others, whether or not currently occupied by a resident.
   (c)   Removal of trespassers. If a law enforcement officer has probable
cause to believe that a person has violated Wis. Stats. § 943.14, then the law
enforcement officer shall remove that person from the premises. The law
enforcement officer may exercise his or her discretion in determining whether
to issue said person a citation under this section or to make an arrest for a
violation of Wis. Stats. § 943.14.
   (d)   Tenants not trespassers. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, tenants shall not be considered trespassers and are not subject to
removal under this section. TENANT means a person occupying, or entitled to
present or future occupancy of a dwelling under a rental agreement, whether
written or oral, and includes persons occupying dwellings under periodic
tenancies and tenancies at will.
   (e)   Compliance with standard operating procedure. Law enforcement officers
shall at all times enforce this section in accordance with the standard
operating procedure entitled “LAND LORD-TENANT ISSUES/UNWANTED GUEST AND
CRIMINAL TRESPASS” adopted by the Village Board of Trustees on February 20,
2017.
   (f)   Enforcement. Any person who violates any provision of this section or
fails to comply therewith, shall be punishable by a forfeiture as prescribed in
§
1-1-6.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 11-3-8 REGULATION OF SMOKING.
   (a)   State statute adopted. The provisions of Wis. Stats. § 101.123
relating to the regulation of smoking and clean indoor air, except provisions
therein relating to penalties to be imposed, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this section as is fully set forth herein. Any act required
to be performed or prohibited by any statute incorporated herein by reference
is required or prohibited by this section. Any future amendment, revisions, or
modifications of the statutes incorporated herein are intended to be made a
part of this section.
   (b)   Smoking prohibited within or upon all buildings and equipment owned,
leased, or rented by the village. In recognition of a need to protect the
health and comfort of the public and village employees from the detrimental
effects of smoking, pursuant to the authority granted to the village by Wis.
Stats. § 101.123(2), smoking, as defined by Wis. Stats. § 101.123(1)(h), is
hereby prohibited by any person within or upon all buildings and enclosed
equipment owned, leased, or rented by the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-8)
§ 11-3-9 ISSUANCE OF WORTHLESS CHECKS.
   (a)   Whoever issues any check or other order for the payment of money less
than $500 which, at the time of issuance, he or she intends shall not be paid
is guilty of a violation of this section.
   (b)   Any of the following is prima facie evidence that the person at the
time he or she issued the check or other order for payment of money intended it
should not be paid:
      (1)   Proof that at the time of issuance, the person did not have an
account with the drawee;
      (2)   Proof that at the time of issuance, the person did not have
sufficient funds or credit with the drawee and that the person failed, within
ten days after receiving notice of nonpayment or dishonor, to pay the check or
other order; or
      (3)   Proof that when presentment was made within reasonable time, the
person did not have sufficient funds or credit with the drawee and the person
failed, within ten days after receiving notice of nonpayment or dishonor, to
pay the check or other order.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a postdated check or to a check given
in past consideration, except a payroll check.
   (d)   Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be subject a
forfeiture of $250 for each offense, together with the costs of prosecution,
and, in default of payment, shall be imprisoned in the County Jail until
forfeiture and costs are paid, but not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
CHAPTER 4: OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
11-4-1   Outside consumption
   
11-4-2   Possession of alcoholic beverages on school grounds
§ 11-4-1 OUTSIDE CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   Alcoholic beverages in public areas.
      (1)   Regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve, or
give away, or offer to sell, serve, or give away, any alcoholic beverage upon
any public street, sidewalk, alley, public parking lot, highway, cemetery, or
drives, or other public area within the village or on private property without
the owner’s consent, except at licensed premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to drink, consume, transport, carry, or possess any intoxicating liquor,
wine, or fermented malt beverage, except in the original package and with the
seal unbroken, either in or out of a vehicle of any of the following places.
         a.   Any village owned or controlled parking lot.
         b.   Any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, or other similar
place within the village.
         c.   Any privately-owned parking lot, driveway, or lot used for
vehicular traffic with the express or implied permission of the owner for
public use thereof.
         d.   Any grounds under the control of the Village School District, and
the grounds of any church or other institution frequented by the public.
         e.   Any recreation area or park normally under the control of the
village, and/or its designated officers.
      (2)   Private property held out for public use. It shall be unlawful for
any person to consume any alcohol beverages upon any private property held open
for public use within the village unless the property is specifically named as
being part of a licensed premises.
      (3)   Leaving licensed premises with open container.
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, permittee, or operator to
permit any patron to leave the licensed premises with an open container
containing any alcohol beverage.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any patron to leave a licensed premises
with an open container containing any alcohol beverage.
      (4)   Exceptions.
         a.   The provisions of this section may be waived by the Village Board
for duly authorized events.
         b.   Any organization which has been issued a temporary fermented malt
beverage and/or temporary wine license for a designated area pursuant to this
code of ordinances, provided that the provisions of this chapter and
Title 7, Chapter 2, are fully complied with.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. All ardent, spirituous, distilled, or vinous liquors,
liquids, or compounds, whether medicated, proprietary, patented, or not, and by
whatever name called, as well as all liquors and liquids made by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion in potable water of barley malt and hops, with or
without unmalted grains or decorticated or degerminated grains or sugar, which
contain one-half of 1% or more of alcohol by volume and which are fit for use
for beverage purposes.
      PUBLIC AREA. Any location within the village which is open to access to
persons not requiring specific permission of the owner to be at such location,
including all parking lots serving commercial establishments.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person under the legal drinking age as defined by
the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
Cross-reference:
   Restrictions on temporary fermented malt beverage or wine licenses, see §
7-2-16
§ 11-4-2 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   (a)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle owned, rented, or consigned to a school.
      SCHOOL. A public, parochial, or private school which provides an
educational program for one or more grades between grades one and 12, and which
is commonly known as an elementary school, middle school, junior high school,
senior high school, or high school.
      SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the governing body of a
school as ultimately responsible for the ordinary operations of a school.
      SCHOOL PREMISES. Premises owned, rented, or under the control of a
school.
   (b)   Except as provided by subsection (c) below, no person may possess or
consume alcohol beverages:
      (1)   On school premises;
      (2)   In a motor vehicle, if a pupil attending the school is in the motor
vehicle; or
      (3)   While participating in a school-sponsored activity.
   (c)   Alcohol beverages may be possessed or consumed on school premises, in
motor vehicles, or by participants in school-sponsored activities if
specifically permitted in writing by the school administrator, consistent with
applicable laws and ordinances.
   (d)   A person who violates this section is subject to a forfeiture of not
more than $200, except that Wis. Stats. § 125.07 provides the penalties
applicable to underage persons.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)
Cross-reference:
   Truancy, see §
11-5-5
CHAPTER 5: OFFENSES BY JUVENILES
Section
   
11-5-1   Curfew
   
11-5-2   Possession of controlled substances by juveniles
   
11-5-3   Village jurisdiction over persons 14 through 17 years of age
   
11-5-4   Possession, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia by a minor
prohibited
   
11-5-5   Purchase or possession of tobacco products
   
11-5-6   Enforcement and penalties
§ 11-5-1 CURFEW.
   (a)   Curfew established. It shall be unlawful for any person age 16 or
under to be on foot, bicycle, or in any type of vehicle on any public street,
avenue, highway, road, alley, park, school grounds, place of amusement and
entertainment, cemetery, playground, public building, or any other public place
in the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the next day,
unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or person having lawful
custody and control of his or her person, or unless there exists a reasonable
necessity therefor. The fact that said child, unaccompanied by a parent,
guardian, or other person having legal custody is found upon any such public
place during the aforementioned hours shall be prima facie evidence that said
child is there unlawfully and that no reasonable excuse exists therefor.
   (b)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to a child:
         a.   Who is performing an errand as directed by his or her parent,
guardian, or person having lawful custody;
         b.   Who is on his or her own premises or in the areas immediately
adjacent thereto;
         c.   Whose employment makes it necessary to be upon the streets,
alleys, or public places, or in any motor vehicle during such hours; or
         d.   Who is returning home from a supervised school, church, or civic
function, but not later than 30 minutes after the ending of such function.
      (2)   These exceptions shall not, however, permit a child to
unnecessarily loiter about the streets, alleys, or public places, or be in a
parked motor vehicle on the public streets.
   (c)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian, or other person having the lawful care, custody, and control of any
person age 16 or under to allow or permit such person to violate the provisions
of subsections (a) or (b) above. The fact that prior to the present offense a
parent, guardian, or custodian was informed by any law enforcement officer of a
separate violation of this section occurring within 30 days of the present
offense shall be prima facie evidence that such parent, guardian, or custodian
allowed or permitted the present violation. Any parent, guardian, or custodian
herein who shall have made a missing person notification to the Police
Department shall not be considered to have allowed or permitted any person age
16 or under to violate this section.
   (d)   Taking a child into custody.
      (1)   Every law enforcement officer while on duty is hereby authorized to
take into custody any child violating the provisions of subsection (a) above.
Children taken into custody shall be released from custody as soon as is
reasonably possible. A person taking a child into custody shall make every
effort immediately to release the child to the child’s parent, guardian, or
legal custodian or, if the parent, guardian, or legal custodian is unavailable,
unwilling, or unable to provide supervision for the child, may release the
child to a responsible adult and verbally counsel or warn as may be appropriate
or, in the case of a runaway child, may release the child to a home authorized
under Wis. Stats. § 48.277. The parent, guardian, legal custodian, or other
responsible adult to whom the child is released shall sign a release for the
child.
      (2)   If the child is not released under this subsection (d), the officer
shall deliver the child to the Barron or Polk County Juvenile Court intake
worker in a manner determined by the court and law enforcement agencies,
stating in writing with supporting facts the reasons why the child was taken
into physical custody and giving any child 12 years of age or older a copy of
the statement in addition to giving a copy to the intake worker. A juvenile
violating these curfews regularly may be warned by an officer on duty in his or
her discretion and sent home in lieu of taking the juvenile into custody.
      (3)   If the child is believed to be suffering from a serious physical
condition which requires either prompt diagnosis or prompt treatment, the
officer shall take such action as is required under Wis. Stats. § 48.20(4). If
the child is believed to be mentally ill, drug dependent, or developmentally
disabled and exhibits conduct which constitutes a substantial risk of physical
harm to the child or to others, the officer shall take such action as is
required under Wis. Stats. § 48.20(5). If the child is believed to be an
intoxicated person who has threatened, attempted, or inflicted physical harm on
himself or herself or on another and is likely to inflict such physical harm
unless committed or is incapacitated by alcohol, the officer shall take such
action as is required under Wis. Stats. § 48.20(6).
   (e)   Warning and penalty.
      (1)   Warning. The first time a parent, guardian, or person having legal
custody of a child who is taken into custody by a law enforcement officer as
provided in subsection (d) above, such parent, guardian, or person having such
legal custody shall be advised as to the provisions of this section, and
further advised that any violation of this section occurring thereafter by this
child or any other child under his or her care or custody shall result in a
penalty being imposed as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Penalty. Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody of a
child described in subsection (a) above who has been warned in the manner
provided in subsection (d)(1) above, and who thereafter violates this section
shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
1-1-6 of this code of ordinances. After a second violation within a six-month
period, if the defendant, in a prosecution under this section, proves that he
or she is unable to comply with this section because of the disobedience of the
child, the action shall be dismissed and the child shall be referred to the
court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under Wis. Stats. Chapter 48. Any minor
person under 16 years of age who shall violate this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, forfeit not less than $1 nor more than $25, together with
the costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1)
§ 11-5-2 POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES BY JUVENILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to possess a
controlled substance contrary to the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Wis.
Stats. Chapter 961.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)
§ 11-5-3 VILLAGE JURISDICTION OVER PERSONS 14 THROUGH 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   (a)   Adoption of state statute. Wis. Stats. § 48.17(2), is hereby adopted
and by reference made a part of this section as if fully set forth herein.
   (b)   Provisions of section applicable to persons 14 through 17 years of
age. Subject to the provisions and limitations of Wis. Stats. § 48.17(2),
complaints alleging a violation of any provision of this code of ordinances
against persons 14 through 17 years of age may be brought on behalf of the
village and may be prosecuted utilizing the same procedures in such cases as
are applicable to adults charged with the same offense.
   (c)   No incarceration as penalty. The court shall not impose incarceration
as a penalty for any person convicted of an offense prosecuted under this
section.
   (d)   Additional prohibited acts. In addition to any other provision of the
village code of ordinances, no person age 14 through 17 shall own, possess,
ingest, buy, sell, trade, use as a beverage, give away, or otherwise control
any intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverage in violation of Wis. Stats.
Chapter 125.
   (e)   Penalty for violations of subsection (d). Any person 14 through 17
years of age who shall violate the provisions of subsection (d) above shall be
subject to the same penalties as are provided in §
1-1-6 exclusive of the provisions therein relative to commitment in the County
Jail.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3)
§ 11-5-4 POSSESSION, MANUFACTURE, AND DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA BY A MINOR
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Definition. In this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, selling, distributing, delivering, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, a controlled substance, as defined in Wis.
Stats. Chapter 961, in violation of this section. It includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
selling, distributing, delivering, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing controlled substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use,
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use, in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use, in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, or other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, or other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body; and
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use, in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Objects used to hold burning material, such as a marijuana
cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         n.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air-driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         1,   Bongs; and
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   (b)   Determination of drug paraphernalia. In determining whether an object
is drug paraphernalia, the following shall be considered, without limitation,
of such other considerations a court may deem relevant.
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of
the object, under any village, state, or federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
      (3)   The proximity of the object in time and space to a direct violation
of this section.
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances.
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substance on the object.
      (6)   a.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner,
or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom the person
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of this section.
         b.   The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of this
object, as to a direct violation of this section, shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use, as drug
paraphernalia.
      (7)   Oral or written instructions provided with the object concerning
its use.
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use.
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use.
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
      (11)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object to the total sale of the business enterprise.
      (12)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      (13)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (c)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. No person who is under 18 years
of age may use, or possess with the sole intent to use, drug paraphernalia to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of this subsection (c).
      (2)   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia. No person who is
under 18 years of age may deliver, or possess with intent to deliver, drug
paraphernalia, knowing that it will be solely used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of this subsection (c).
      (3)   Delivery of drug paraphernalia by a minor to minor. Any person who
is under 18 years of age, who violates this subsection (c) by delivering drug
paraphernalia to a person under 18 years of age who is at least three years
younger than the violator, is guilty of a special offense.
      (4)   Exemption. This section does not apply to manufacturers,
practitioners, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with Wis. Stats. Chapter 961. This section does not
prohibit the possession, manufacture, or use of hypodermics in accordance with
Wis. Stats. Chapter 961.
   (d)   Penalties. Any person who violates subsection (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)
(3) above, shall, upon conviction, be subject to disposition under Wis. Stats.
§ 48.344.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4)
§ 11-5-5 PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (a)   Definition of tobacco products. For the purposes of this chapter,
TOBACCO PRODUCTS means any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but
not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or
dipping tobacco.
   (b)   Purchase by minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to purchase tobacco products, or to misrepresent
their identity or age, or to use any false or altered identification for the
purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   (c)   Possession by minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years to possess any tobacco products; provided that the
possession by a person under the age of 18 years under the direct supervision
of the parent or legal guardian of such person in the privacy of the parent’s
or guardian’s home shall not be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. § 134.66
§ 11-5-6 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Citation process. For violations of §§
11-5-2 through
11-5-5, juveniles may be cited by the citation process on a form approved by
the Village Attorney, and shall contain on the reverse side the penalties that
the juvenile may receive simultaneously with issuing the citation to the
juvenile. A carbon copy will be mailed to the parent or legal guardian.
   (b)   Penalties. Violations of §§
11-5-2 through
11-5-5 by a person under the age of 18 shall be punishable according to Wis.
Stats. §§ 8.17(2), 48.343, 48.344, and 48.345. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the juvenile officer, in his or her discretion, from referring cases
directly to the District Attorney’s office.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-7)
CHAPTER 6: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
11-6-1   Public nuisances prohibited
   
11-6-2   Public nuisances defined
   
11-6-3   Public nuisances affecting health
   
11-6-4   Public nuisances offending morals and decency
   
11-6-5   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
11-6-6   Abatement of public nuisances
   
11-6-7   Cost of abatement
   
11-6-8   Enforcement; penalty
§ 11-6-1 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain, or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1)
§ 11-6-2 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is a thing, act, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
   (a)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health, repose,
or safety of the public;
   (b)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
   (c)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; and/or
   (d)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way, or the use of public property.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2)
§ 11-6-3 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but such enumeration shall
not be construed to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition
of §
11-6-2.
   (a)   Adulterated food. All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome
food or drink sold or offered for sale to the public.
   (b)   Unburied carcasses. Carcasses of animals, birds, or fowl not intended
for human consumption, or foods which are not buried or otherwise disposed of
in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death.
   (c)   Breeding places for vermin, and the like. Accumulations of decayed
animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing
material, scrap metal, or any material whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes,
disease-carrying insects, rats, or other vermin may breed.
   (d)   Stagnant water. All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or
other insects can multiply.
   (e)   Garbage cans. Garbage cans which are not fly-tight.
   (f)   Noxious weeds. All noxious weeds and other rank growth of vegetation.
   (g)   Water pollution. The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream,
lake, canal, or other body of water by sewage, creamery, or industrial wastes
or other substances.
   (h)   Noxious odors, and the like. Any use of property, substances, or
things within the village or within four miles thereof, or causing any foul,
offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors, gases, effluvia,
or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons
which annoy, discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the health of any appreciable
number of persons within the village.
   (i)   Street pollution. Any use of property which shall cause any nauseous
or unwholesome liquid or substance to flow into or upon any street, gutter,
alley, sidewalk, or public place within the village.
   (j)   Animals at large. All animals running at large.
   (k)   Accumulations of refuse. Accumulations of old cans, lumber, elm
firewood, and other refuse.
   (l)   Air pollution. The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids,
fumes, gases, fly ash, or industrial dust within the limits or within one mile
therefrom in such quantities as to endanger the health of persons of ordinary
sensibilities, or to threaten or cause substantial injury to property.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3)
§ 11-6-4 PUBLIC NUISANCES OFFENDING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby
specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
offending public morals and decency coming within the definition of §
11-6-2.
   (a)   Disorderly houses. All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill
fame, gambling houses, and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the
purpose of prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse, or gambling.
   (b)   Gambling devices. All gambling devices and slot machines, except as
permitted by state law.
   (c)   Unlicensed sale of liquor and beer. All places where intoxicating
liquor or fermented malt beverages are sold, possessed, stored, brewed,
bottled, manufactured, or rectified without a permit or license as provided for
the ordinances of the village.
   (d)   Continuous violation of village ordinances. Any place or premises
within the village where village ordinances or state laws relating to public
health, safety, peace, morals, or welfare are openly, continuously, repeatedly,
and intentionally violated.
   (e)   Illegal drinking. Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of
drinking intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the
laws of the state or ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4)
§ 11-6-5 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby
declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such
enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public
peace or safety coming within the definition of §
11-6-2.
   (a)   Signs, billboards, and the like. All signs and billboards, awnings,
and other similar structures over or near streets, sidewalks, public grounds,
or places frequented by the public, so situated or constructed as to endanger
the public safety.
   (b)   Illegal buildings. All buildings erected, repaired, or altered in
violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the village relating to
materials and manner of construction of buildings and structures within the
village.
   (c)   Unauthorized traffic signs. All unauthorized signs, signals, markings,
or devices placed or maintained upon or in view of any public highway or
railway crossing which purport to be or may be mistaken as an official traffic
control device, railroad sign, or signal or which, because of its color,
location, brilliance, or manner of operation, interferes with the effectiveness
of any such device, sign, or signal.
   (d)   Obstruction of intersections. All trees, hedges, billboards, or other
obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys,
or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when approaching an
intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
   (e)   Tree limbs. All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk
less than ten feet above the surface thereof, and all limbs which project over
a public street less than 14 feet above the surface thereof.
   (f)   Dangerous trees. All trees which are a menace to public safety or are
the cause of substantial annoyance to the general public.
   (g)   Fireworks. All use or display of fireworks, except as provided by the
laws of the state and ordinances of the village.
   (h)   Dilapidated buildings. All buildings or structures so old,
dilapidated, or out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or
otherwise unfit for human use.
   (i)   Wires over streets. All wires over streets, alleys, or public grounds
which are strung less than 15 feet above the surface thereof.
   (j)   Noisy animals or fowl. The keeping or harboring of any animal or fowl
which, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, crowing, or making of
other noises shall greatly annoy or disturb a neighborhood or any considerable
number of persons within the village.
   (k)   Obstructions of streets; excavations. All obstructions of streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or crosswalks and all excavations in or under the same,
except as permitted by the ordinances of the village or which, although made in
accordance with such ordinances, are kept or maintained for an unreasonable or
illegal length of time after the purpose thereof has been accomplished, or
which do not conform to the permit.
   (l)   Open excavations. All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations, or
unused basements accessible from any public street, alley, or sidewalk.
   (m)   Abandoned refrigerators. All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from
which the doors and other covers have not been removed or which are not
equipped with a device for opening from the inside.
   (n)   Flammable liquids. Repeated or continuous violations of the ordinances
of the village or laws of the state relating to the storage of flammable
liquids.
   (o)   Unremoved snow. All snow and ice not removed or sprinkled with ashes,
sawdust, sand, or other chemical removers, as provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-5)
§ 11-6-6 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (a)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Notice to owner. If the inspecting officer determines that a public
nuisance exists within the village and that there is a danger of public health,
safety, peace, morals, or decency, notice may be served by the inspecting
officer or an authorized deputy on the person causing, maintaining, or
permitting such nuisance or on the owner or occupant of the premises where such
nuisance is caused, maintained, or permitted; and a copy of such notice shall
be posted on the premises. Such notice shall direct the person causing,
maintaining, or permitting such nuisance, or the owner or occupant of the
premises, to abate or remove such nuisance within a period not less than 24
hours or greater than seven days, and shall state that unless such nuisance is
so abated, the village will cause the same to be abated and will charge the
cost thereof to the owner, occupant, or person causing, maintaining, or
permitting the nuisance, as the case may be.
      (2)   Abatement by village. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant, or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the officer having the duty of enforcement shall cause the abatement or
removal of such public nuisance.
   (b)   Abatement by court action. If the inspecting officer determines that a
public nuisance exists on private premises, but that the nature of such
nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger to the public
health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the inspector or sanitarian shall
file a written report of such findings with the Village President who, upon
direction of the Village Board, shall cause an action to abate such nuisance to
be commenced in the name of the village in the Barron or Polk County Circuit
Court in accordance with the provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapter 823.
   (c)   Court order. Except where necessary under subsection (a) above, no
officer hereunder shall use force to obtain access to private property to abate
a public nuisance, but shall request permission to enter upon private property
if such premises are occupied and, if such permission is denied, shall apply to
any court having jurisdiction for an order assisting the abatement of the
public nuisance.
   (d)   Other methods not excluded. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as prohibiting the abatement of public nuisances by the village or its
officials in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-6)
§ 11-6-7 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter for the erection,
contrivance, creation, continuance, or maintenance of a public nuisance, the
cost of abating a public nuisance by the village shall be collected as a debt
from the owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting, or maintaining the
nuisance, such cost shall be assessed against the real estate as a special
charge.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-7)
§ 11-6-8 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY.
   (a)   Enforcement. The Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Building Inspector, or
other designated village official shall enforce those provisions of this
chapter that come within the jurisdiction of their offices, and they shall make
periodic inspections and inspections upon complaint to insure that such
provisions are not violated. No action shall be taken under §
11-6-6 to abate a public nuisance unless the officer has inspected or caused to
be inspected the premises where the nuisance is alleged to exist and is
satisfied that a nuisance does, in fact, exist.
   (b)   General penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
1-1-6.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-8)
CHAPTER 7: TRUANCY
Section
   
11-7-1   Truancy defined
   
11-7-2   Offenses by parents
   
11-7-3   Offenses by minors
   
11-7-4   Penalties
Cross-section:
   Truancy, see §
11-5-5
§ 11-7-1 TRUANCY DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms TRUANT, HABITUAL TRUANT,
TRUANCY, and other terms defined in Wis. Stats. Chapter 118, shall be defined
as said terms are defined in Wis. Stats. Chapter 118, or in any subsequent
amendment, additions, or renumbering of said chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-1)
§ 11-7-2 OFFENSES BY PARENTS.
   Any parent or guardian of a minor student who is in violation of any part of
Wis. Stats. Chapter 118, regarding the truancy of that student, may, if
permitted by that law, be charged with said violation in the Municipal Court of
the village, and shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
11-7-4. Any person charged under this chapter must first have received a letter
and a phone contact from the school district regarding the first two days of
truancy.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-2)
§ 11-7-3 OFFENSES BY MINORS.
   Any person under the age of 18 who is in violation of any part of Wis.
Stats. Chapter 118, regarding the truancy of that person, may, if permitted by
that law, be charged with said violation in the Municipal Court of the village,
and shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
11-7-4. Any person charged under this chapter must first have received a letter
and a phone contact from the school district regarding the first two days of
truancy.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-3)
§ 11-7-4 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person found to have violated this chapter shall be fined $65.90
for the first offense, $102.80 for the seconds offense, and $152 for the third
offense.
   (b)   In the event any section, subsection, clause, phrase, or portion of
this chapter is for any reason held illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of this chapter. It is the legislative intent of the
Village Board that this chapter would have been adopted if such illegal
provision had not been included or any illegal application had not been made.
   (c)   All ordinances or parts or ordinances and resolutions in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed. This chapter shall take effect from and after its
passage and publication.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-4)
TITLE 12: PARKS AND NAVIGABLE WATERS
Chapter
   
1.   PARKS AND NAVIGABLE WATERS
CHAPTER 1: PARKS AND NAVIGABLE WATERS
Section
   
12-1-1   Park regulations
   
12-1-2   Operation of remote or radio-controlled toys or devices prohibited
   
12-1-3   Turf protection on public property
   
12-1-4   Park hours
   
12-1-5   Reservation of park space or park shelters
§ 12-1-1 PARK REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Purpose and definition. In order to protect the parks, parkways,
recreational facilities, and conservancy areas within the village from injury,
damage, or desecration, these regulations are enacted. The term PARK as
hereinafter used in this chapter shall include all grounds, structures, and
watercourses which are or may be located within any area dedicated to the
public use as a park, parkway, recreation facility, playground, swimming pool,
or conservancy area in the village.
   (b)   Specific regulations.
      (1)   Littering prohibited. No person shall litter, dump, or deposit any
rubbish, refuse, earth, or other material in any park.
      (2)   Sound devices. No person shall operate or play any amplifying
system unless specific authority is first obtained from the Village Board, or
designated committee thereof. The Turtle Lake Intercounty Fair is specifically
exempted from this subsection (b)(2).
      (3)   Bill posting. No person shall post, paste, fasten, paint, or attach
any placard, bill, notice, sign, or advertising matter upon any structure,
tree, or other natural object in any park, except park regulations and other
signs authorized by the Village Board or its Parks and Recreation Committee.
      (4)   Throwing stones and missiles prohibited. No person shall throw
stones or other missiles in or into any park.
      (5)   Removal of park equipment prohibited. No person shall remove
benches, seats, tables, or other park equipment from any park.
      (6)   Trapping. TRAPPING, when used in this section, includes the taking,
or the attempting to take, of any wild animal by means of setting or operating
any device, mechanism, or contraption that is designed, built, or made to close
upon, hold fast, or otherwise capture a wild animal or animals; live traps on a
person’s property are excluded. The trapping of wild animals is hereby
prohibited in village parks.
      (7)   Making of fires. No person shall start, tend, or maintain a fire
except in personal grills or designated fireplaces. Personal grills shall be
used only in designated picnic areas. The use of personal grills is permitted,
provided lawns and vegetation are not endangered. Unburned fuel and ashes shall
be disposed of in such a manner as to prevent fire or damage to any park
property.
      (8)   Protection of park property.
         a.   No person shall kill, injure, or disturb, or attempt to injure or
disturb, waterfowl, birds, or animals, wild or domestic, within any park,
except as permitted by this chapter. No person shall climb any tree or remove
flowers or fruit, wild or cultivated, or break, cut down, trample upon, remove,
or in any manner injure, deface, write upon, or ill use any tree, shrub,
flower, flower bed, turf, soil, sand, fountain, ornament, building, structure,
apparatus, bench, table, official notice, sign, or other property within any
park.
         b.   No person shall deface, by throwing stones, pebbles, or other
debris, in any of the toilets, bubblers, or other sanitary facilities located
in any village park; or to deface by drawing with crayon, chalk, paint, or
anything else on any of the buildings or equipment at any village park; or to
deface the equipment by means of a sharp instrument.
      (9)   Motorized vehicles. Except for authorized maintenance vehicles, no
person shall operate an unlicensed or licensed motorized vehicle outside of
areas specifically designated as parking areas or areas where the operation of
such vehicles is specifically permitted. Motor vehicles are restricted to the
roads and drives and parking areas. No motor vehicles of any nature may be used
on the seeded areas except vehicles which have Village Board authorization for
shows, rides, or exhibits, and then only for the purpose of loading and
unloading.
      (10)   Snowmobiles. No person shall operate a snowmobile in a village
park except in designated areas. Snowmobiles shall only be operated on
designated trails.
      (11)   Speed limit. No person shall operate any vehicle in a village park
in excess of ten miles per hour unless otherwise posted.
      (12)   Glass beverage bottles in parks prohibited. No individual shall
possess or consume any beverage in a glass bottle or glass container in any
village park.
      (13)   Reckless driving in parks prohibited. No person shall operate a
motor vehicle in a reckless manner in any of the public parks of the village.
      (14)   Parking in parks. No person shall park any motor vehicle in any
park in the village except in a designated parking area.
      (15)   Horse and carriages.
         a.   No person shall ride a horse or drive a horse-driven vehicle in
any park, except on roads or designated bridle paths, except when approval of
the Village Board is first obtained. It shall be unlawful for any person to
ride a horse or drive a horse-driven vehicle in a careless, negligent, or
reckless manner which may endanger the safety and well-being of others.
         b.   Horseback riding shall be allowed only during the daylight hours.
No person shall ride a horse which cannot be held under such control that it
may be easily turned or stopped. Horses shall not be left unbridled or
unattended.
      (16)   Removing tree protectors. No person shall remove any device for
the protection of trees or shrubs.
      (17)   Golfing and sporting activities. No golfing or practicing golf in
village parks or recreation areas shall be allowed except with the use of a
whiffle ball. All sporting activities must be held in areas so designated for
that purpose.
      (18)   Arrows. No person shall use or shoot any bow and arrow in any
village park, except in authorized areas.
      (19)   Fees and charges. The Village Board shall have the authority to
establish such fees as deemed necessary for use of any park facility, shelter,
or land area. It shall be unlawful to use such areas without payment of such
fee or charge when required.
      (20)   Pets. Pets, including animals of any species, shall not be
permitted to run at large in any village parks, except for village-approved
events.
      (21)   Firearms; hunting. Possessing or discharging of any air gun,
slingshot, explosive, firearm, or weapon of any kind is prohibited in all
village parks.
      (22)   Fish cleaning. Cleaning of fish in shelters, toilet facilities, or
picnic areas is prohibited in all village parks.
      (23)   Controlled substances. Possessing, using, or dispensing of a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
being Wis. Stats. Chapter 961, is prohibited in all village parks.
      (24)   Vendors restricted. No person shall sell, vend, or give away any
article of merchandise whatever, without a written permit from the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Outside consumption, see §
11-4-1
§ 12-1-2 OPERATION OF REMOTE OR RADIO-CONTROLLED TOYS OR DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fly, operate, or make use of any
remote or radio-controlled model airplane, helicopter, vehicle, or any other
such device in, over, or upon any street, park, or other public or private
property, except in areas specifically designated and posted for such purpose
and with the consent of the property owner or lessee of the property.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 12-1-3 TURF PROTECTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Except as authorized by the Village President, no person shall dig into the
turf of any village-owned park or recreational property for any purposes
whatsoever, or remove any trees or flowers. Absent authorization by the Village
President, the use of metal detectors and digging for buried objects on village
parks or recreational property is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 12-1-4 PARK HOURS.
   (a)   Hours established. All village parks shall be closed to the public
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the succeeding day. Any law
enforcement officer of the village may clear all persons from the village parks
during closing hours.
   (b)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The regular closing hours of the village parks do not apply to
persons having permission from the Village Board to be present in the village
parks during closed hours on specific days and for specific purposes.
      (2)   The regular closing hours of the village parks do not apply to
persons in attendance at a regularly scheduled ball game, except that those
persons shall vacate the park within 15 minutes after the ending of a regularly
scheduled game.
   (c)   Campers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a paid bona fide
camper to remain in the village parks between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. It shall also be unlawful for any camper to remain in a village park for
longer than ten continuous days.
      (2)   Permission for extension of the above time limits may be obtained
from the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, or the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 12-1-5 RESERVATION OF PARK SPACE OR PARK SHELTERS.
   (a)   Policy on reservation. The village-owned park and park facilities and
shelter areas are primarily for the nonexclusive use of the residents and
visitors of the village. However, under proper circumstances, exclusive use of
the same or parts thereof may be permitted. This section is intended to
regulate exclusive use of municipally-owned parks, park facilities, park
shelters, or parts thereof, excluding camping areas, in the village to the end
that the general welfare of the village is protected.
   (b)   Reservation of park space.
      (1)   A person or group, firm, organization, partnership, or corporation
may reserve the use of a park facility or a park shelter by written application
filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, for a permit for exclusive use of the same. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall issue
permits for exclusive use of a portion of a park or park shelter, while the
Parks and Recreation Committee shall issue permits for the exclusive use of
village parks.
      (2)   All reservations shall be made on application forms in the office
of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, and shall be on a first-come, first-served basis, provided
however, that any village-based church or civic group may make reservations for
dates used by it in past years on a continuing basis, at any time.
      (3)   Reservation of a designated area shall give the party to whom
reserved the right to use such area to the exclusion of others for and during
the period of reservation. Areas not reserved shall be open to use by all.
   (c)   Application. Applications shall be filed with the Parks and Recreation
Committee at least 14 days prior to the date on which the exclusive use of the
entire park is requested, or at least three days prior to the date on which a
park shelter or a portion of a park is to be used, and shall set forth the
following information regarding the proposed exclusive use.
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      (2)   If the exclusive use is proposed for a group, firm, organization,
partnership, or corporation, the name, address, and telephone number of the
headquarters of the same and the responsible and authorized heads or partners
of the same.
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
responsible for the use of the said park, area, or facility.
      (4)   The date when the exclusive use is requested and the hours of the
proposed exclusive date.
      (5)   The anticipated number of persons to use the said park, area, or
facility.
      (6)   Information on whether a sound device will be used.
      (7)   Any additional information which the Parks and Recreation Committee
or Administrator finds reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to
whether a permit should be issued.
   (d)   Action on application. The Parks and Recreation Committee shall act
promptly on all applications for permits for exclusive park use (not shelter
use) after consulting with the applicant, if necessary.
   (e)   Reasons for denial. Applicants under this section may be denied for
any of the following reasons.
      (1)   If it is for a use which would involve a violation of federal or
state law or any provision of this code.
      (2)   If the granting of the permit would conflict with another permit
already granted or for which application is already pending.
      (3)   If the application does not contain the information required by
subsection (c) above.
      (4)   The application is made less than the required days in advance of
the scheduled exclusive use.
      (5)   If it is for a use of the park or park facility at a date and time
when, in addition to the proposed use, anticipated nonexclusive use by others
of the park or park facility is expected and would be seriously adversely
affected.
      (6)   If the law enforcement requirements of the exclusive use will
require so large a number of persons as to prevent adequate law enforcement to
the park, park facility, or shelter area involved or of the rest of the
village.
      (7)   The exclusive use will reasonably create a substantial risk of
injury to persons or damage to property.
      (8)   The exclusive use is so poorly organized that participants are
likely to engage in aggressive or destructive activity.
   (f)   Indemnification. Prior to granting any permit for exclusive use of the
park, the village may require the permittee to file evidence of good and
sufficient sureties, insurance in force, or other evidence of adequate
financial responsibility, running to the village and such other third parties
as may be injured or damaged, in an amount depending upon the likelihood of
injury or damage as a direct and proximate result of the exclusive use
sufficient to indemnify the village and such third parties as may be injured or
damaged thereby, caused by the permittee, its agents or participants.
   (g)   Permit not required for village activity. A permit is not required for
exclusive use of the park or a park facility sponsored by the village.
   (h)   Permit revocation. The Village Board, Parks and Recreation Committee,
Administrator, or a law enforcement officer may revoke a permit already issued
if it is deemed that such action is justified by an actual or potential
emergency due to weather, fire, riot, other catastrophe, or likelihood of a
breach of the peace or by a major change in the conditions forming the basis of
the issuance of the permit.
   (i)   Form of permit. Each permit shall be in a form prescribed by the Parks
and Recreation Committee and shall designate the park, park facility, or
shelter area involved, date, hours of the exclusive use, purpose of the
exclusive use, and the name of the person, group, firm, organization,
partnership, or corporation to which the permit is issued.
   (j)   Class B fermented malt beverage licenses. When fermented malt
beverages are sold at any event authorized by this section, a valid fermented
malt beverage license shall be obtained and the provisions of §§
7-2-11 and
11-4-1 shall be fully complied with. Said license must be held by the person
who filed the original license and shall be presented to any law enforcement
officer upon request.
   (k)   Care of facilities. Persons reserving village facilities shall be
completely responsible for cleaning up the facilities after the event to the
satisfaction of village officials. All reserved areas shall be left in a clean
condition, with refuse placed in containers provided for such purpose. Any
organization or corporation reserving any area in a village park shall agree to
assume full responsibility for all damage to village property by any invitee of
said organization or corporation, and shall make full payment therefor upon
billing by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate. Failure to do so shall deny future use of park facilities until
such payment be made, in addition to any other remedy which the village may
have.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5)
Cross-reference:
   Outside consumption, see §
11-4-1
   Transfer and lapse of alcoholic beverage license, see §
7-2-11
TITLE 13: ZONING
Chapter
   
1.   ZONING CODE
   
2.   FLOODPLAIN ZONING
   
3.   SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING
   
4.   REZONINGS
   
5.   ANNEXATIONS
CHAPTER 1: ZONING CODE
Section
Article A: Introduction
   
13-1-1   Authority
   
13-1-2   Title
   
13-1-3   General purpose
   
13-1-4   Intent and purposes in view
   
13-1-5   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
13-1-6   Rules of interpretation
   
13-1-7   Severability and non-liability
   
13-1-8   Repeal and effective date
   
13-1-9   Comprehensive plan adopted
   
13-1-10   Reserved for future use
Article B: General Provisions
   
13-1-11   Jurisdiction and general provision
   
13-1-12   General use regulations
   
13-1-13   Site regulations
   
13-1-14   Height and area exceptions
   
13-1-15   Bulk standards
   13-1-16 through 13-1-19   Reserved for future use
Article C: Zoning Districts
   
13-1-20   Purpose
   
13-1-21   Districts established
   
13-1-22   R-R Rural Residential District
   
13-1-23   R-L Low-Density Single-Family Residential District
   
13-1-24   R-M Medium-Density Single-Family Residential District
   
13-1-25   R-MF Multi-Family Residential District
   
13-1-26   Conditional uses applicable to all residential districts
   
13-1-27   MHTH Mobile Home, Tiny Home Neighborhood District
   
13-1-28   R-T Rural Transitional District
   
13-1-29   I-A Intensive Agricultural District
   
13-1-30   B-G General Business District
   
13-1-31   B-H Highway Business District
   
13-1-32   D-MU Downtown Mixed-Use District
   
13-1-33   B-P Business Park District
   
13-1-34   P-C Park and Conservancy District
   
13-1-35   PD Planned Development District
   13-1-36 through 13-1-39   Reserved for future use
Article D: Accessory Uses and Structures
   
13-1-40   Accessory uses or structures
   
13-1-41   Outside storage of firewood
   
13-1-42   Swimming pools
   
13-1-43   Home occupations
   13-1-44 through 13-1-50   Reserved for future use
Article E: Manufactured Home, Mobile Home, and Tiny Home Standards
   
13-1-51   Purpose
   
13-1-52   Manufactured homes in residentially zoned areas
   
13-1-53   Mobile homes
   
13-1-54   Tiny homes
   13-1-55 through 13-1-59   Reserved for future use
Article F: Non-conforming Uses, Structures, and Lots
   
13-1-60   Purpose
   
13-1-61   Existing non-conforming uses
   
13-1-62   Existing non-conforming structures
   
13-1-63   Changes and substitutions
   
13-1-64   Non-conforming and substandard lots
   13-1-65 through 13-1-69   Reserved for future use
Article G: Performance Standards
   
13-1-70   Purpose
   
13-1-71   Highway access
   
13-1-72   Traffic visibility; vision clearance triangles
   
13-1-73   Loading requirements
   
13-1-74   Off-street parking requirements
   
13-1-75   Fencing
   
13-1-76   Screening
   
13-1-77   Noise
   
13-1-78   Vibration
   
13-1-79   External lighting
   
13-1-80   Odor
   
13-1-81   Particulate emissions
   
13-1-82   Visible emissions
   
13-1-83   Hazardous pollutants
   
13-1-84   Standards for the B-H, D-MU, and B-P Districts
   13-1-85 through 13-1-89   Reserved for future use
Article H: Signs
   
13-1-90   Purpose and intent
   
13-1-91   Compliance
   
13-1-92   Non-commercial signs
   
13-1-93   Existing non-conforming signs
   
13-1-94   Exemptions
   
13-1-95   Abandoned and dilapidated signs
   
13-1-96   Sign permitting and approval procedures
   
13-1-97   Measurement standards
   
13-1-98   Construction specifications and sign maintenance
   
13-1-99   General provisions
   
13-1-100   Signs permitted in all districts without a permit
   
13-1-101   Signs permitted in residential districts with a permit
   
13-1-102   Signs permitted in all zoning districts, other than residential
districts, with a permit
   
13-1-103   Illumination restrictions, all zoning districts
   
13-1-104   Temporary and portable signs
   
13-1-105   Off-premises signs and billboards
   
13-1-106   Prohibited signs
   
13-1-107   Appeals and special exceptions
   13-1-108 through 13-1-109   Reserved for future use
Article I: Telecommunications
   
13-1-110   Purpose
   
13-1-111   Signal receiving antennas
   
13-1-112   Wireless telecommunication facilities
   13-1-113 through 13-1-119   Reserved for future use
Article J: Administration and Procedures
   
13-1-120   Purpose
   
13-1-121   Zoning Administrator
   
13-1-122   Role of specific village officials in zoning administration
   
13-1-123   Review and approval required
   
13-1-124   Zoning ordinance (text or map) amendment
   
13-1-125   Conditional use permit procedures and standards
   
13-1-126   Zoning permit
   
13-1-127   Site plan review and approval procedures
   
13-1-128   Variances
   
13-1-129   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
13-1-130   Violations and penalties
   13-1-131 through 13-1-139   Reserved for future use
Article K: Definitions
   
13-1-140   Definitions
   
13-1-141   Mobile home definitions
   
13-1-142   Large livestock definitions
   
13-1-143   Sign definitions
ARTICLE A: INTRODUCTION
§ 13-1-1 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Wis. Stats. §§ 61.35,
62.23(7), and 87.30, and amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-2 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to, and cited as the “Zoning Code,
Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin” and is hereinafter referred to as the “code”
or “chapter.”
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-3 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the comfort, health, safety,
morals, prosperity, aesthetics, and general welfare of the people of the
village.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-4 INTENT AND PURPOSES IN VIEW.
   The general intent and purposes in view of this chapter are to regulate and
restrict the use of all structures, lands, and waters, and to:
   (a)   Promote and protect the comfort, public health, safety, morals,
prosperity, aesthetics, and general welfare of the people;
   (b)   Divide the village into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and
use of buildings, structures, and land for residence, business, and
manufacturing, and other specified uses;
   (c)   Protect the character and the stability of the residential, business,
manufacturing, and other districts within the village and to promote the
orderly and beneficial development thereof;
   (d)   Regulate lot coverage, the intensity of use of lot areas and the size
and location of all structures so as to prevent overcrowding and to provide
adequate sunlight, air, sanitation, and drainage;
   (e)   Regulate population density and distribution so as to avoid sprawl or
undue concentration and to facilitate the provision of adequate public
services, utilities, and other public requirements;
   (f)   Regulate parking, loading, and access so as to lessen congestion in,
and promote the safety and efficiency of, streets and highways;
   (g)   Secure safety from fire, panic, flooding, pollution, contamination,
and other dangers;
   (h)   Stabilize and protect existing and potential property values and
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the village;
   (i)   Preserve and protect the beauty of the village;
   (j)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   (k)   To provide for the elimination of non-conforming uses of land,
buildings, and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district;
   (l)   Prevent and control erosion, sedimentation, and other pollution of the
surface and subsurface waters;
   (m)   Further the maintenance of safe and healthful water conditions;
   (n)   Prevent flood damage to persons and property and minimize expenditures
for flood relief and flood control projects;
   (o)   Provide for and protect a variety of suitable commercial and
industrial sites;
   (p)   Protect the traffic-carrying capacity of existing and proposed
arterial streets and highways;
   (q)   Implement those municipal, county, watershed, and regional
comprehensive plans, or components of such plans adopted by the village;
   (r)   Provide for the administration and enforcement of this chapter; and to
provide penalties for the violation of this chapter; and
   (s)   Implement certain goals and objectives of the Village Comprehensive
Plan, which are best addressed through zoning approaches, as enabled by state
statutes.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-5 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law. However, whenever this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-6 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (a)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted to promote the general
purpose identified in §
13-1-3, and shall be liberally construed in favor of the village and shall not
be construed to be a limitation or repeal of any other power granted to the
village by the state statutes.
   (b)   Where property is affected by the regulations imposed by any provision
of this chapter and by other governmental regulations, the regulations which
are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
prevail. Regardless of any other provision of this chapter, no land shall be
developed, and no structure erected or maintained, in violation of any state or
federal regulations. Where there are conflicts between or among regulations
within this chapter, the regulations that are more restrictive or which impose
higher standards or requirements shall prevail. In all instances, where there
are conflicts between the text of this chapter and any tables or figures of
this chapter, the text shall prevail.
   (c)   Nothing herein contained shall require any changes in plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any building or part thereof for which
a building permit has been issued before the effective date of this chapter,
and the construction of which shall have been started within one year from the
date of such permit.
   (d)   Except as provided in this chapter, under provisions for non-
conforming uses, non-conforming developments, substandard lots, and non-
conforming structures and buildings (see Article F), no building, structure,
development, or premises shall be hereinafter used or occupied, and no
applicable permit granted, that does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (e)   In cases of mixed occupancy or mixed-use buildings, the regulations
for each land use shall apply to the portion of the structure or land so
occupied and so used. In the case of buildings containing both residential and
non-residential uses, the density, intensity, and standards for non-residential
buildings shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-7 SEVERABILITY AND NON-LIABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the
following.
   (a)   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (b)   If any application of this chapter to a particular structure, land, or
water is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall not be applicable to any other structure,
land, or water not specifically included in said judgment.
   (c)   The village does not guarantee, warrant, or represent that only those
areas designated as floodlands will be subject to periodic inundation, and
hereby asserts that there is no liability on the part of the Village Board, its
agencies or employees, for any flood damages, sanitation problems, or
structural damages that may occur as a result of reliance upon and conformance
with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-8 REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (a)   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances of the village
inconsistent or conflicting with this chapter, to the extent of the
inconsistency or conflict only, are hereby repealed.
   (b)   This chapter shall become effective upon passage and publication
according to law, following the date of repeal and recreation of the official
zoning map. All plans approved under previous zoning regulations shall be valid
and may be used to obtain permits for a period of not more than a year after
the effective date of this chapter, except where subject to developer agreement
provisions.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-9 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The village has adopted as though fully set forth in this chapter that
certain document entitled “Village of Turtle Lake 2020-2040 Comprehensive Plan”
dated August 17, 2020, and as amended. A copy of the adopted plan is available
in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-10 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE B: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13-1-11 JURISDICTION AND GENERAL PROVISION.
   (a)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this chapter shall apply to all
structures, lands, water, and air within the corporate limits of the village.
   (b)   Compliance. No new structure, new use of land, water, or air, or
change in the use of land, water, or air shall hereafter be permitted, and no
structure or part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without a
zoning permit and without full compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
and all other applicable village, county, and state regulations.
   (c)   District regulations to be complied with. Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, the use and height of buildings hereafter erected, converted,
moved, enlarged, or structurally altered, and the use of any land shall be in
compliance with the regulations established herein for the district in which
such building or land is located.
   (d)   Yard reduction or joint use.
      (1)   No lot, yard, parking area, building area, or other space shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of this chapter.
No part of any lot, yard, parking area, or other space required for a structure
or use shall be used for any other structure or use. Lots existing and of
record prior to adoption of this chapter, but of substandard size, may be
devoted to uses permitted in the district in which located.
      (2)   No part of a yard or other open space provided about any building
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this code shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space required for another building.
   (e)   Nuisance actions. No provision of this chapter shall be construed to
bar an action to enjoin or abate the use or occupancy of any land or structure
as a nuisance under the appropriate laws of the state.
   (f)   Construction of utilities. No provision of this chapter shall be
construed to prohibit the customary and necessary construction, reconstruction,
or maintenance of above-ground or underground public utility neighborhood
service lines and mechanical appurtenances thereto where reasonably necessary
for the preservation of the public health, safety, convenience, and general
welfare.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-12 GENERAL USE REGULATIONS.
   Only the following uses and their essential services may be allowed in any
district.
   (a)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses, being the principal uses, specified
for a district.
   (b)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures as specified are
permitted in any district but not until their principal structure is present or
under construction. Any permanent, roofed structure serving as an accessory
use, if attached to the principal building, shall be considered a part of the
principal building. If such structure is a building and is not attached to the
principal building, it shall conform to the setback and other dimensional
requirements of the district within which it is located. Residential accessory
uses shall not involve the conduct of any business, trade, or industry, with
the exception of home occupations as allowed for under §
13-1-43.
   (c)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Review, public hearing, approval. Conditional uses and their
accessory uses are considered as special uses requiring, for their
authorization, review, public hearing, and approval by the Village Board in
accordance with Article J of this chapter.
      (2)   Pre-existing conditional uses. Those existing uses which are
classified as conditional uses for the district(s) in which they are located at
the time of adoption of this code require no action by the Village Board for
them to continue as valid conditional uses, and the same shall be deemed to be
regular conditional uses.
   (d)   Uses not specified in code.
      (1)   Uses not specified in this chapter which are found by the Village
Board to be sufficiently similar to specified permitted uses for a district
shall be allowed by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Uses not specified in this chapter and which are found sufficiently
similar to specified conditional uses for a district may be allowed by the
Village Board after consideration and recommendation by the Plan Commission,
public hearing, and approval in accordance with Article J of this chapter.
   (e)   Temporary uses. Temporary uses, such as real estate sales field
offices or shelters for materials and equipment being used in the construction
of a permanent structure, may be allowed by the Village Board. The Board may
impose conditions on such temporary uses, to the extent allowed for under
Article J.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-13 SITE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Street frontage. All lots shall abut upon a public street or other
officially approved means of access, and each lot shall have a minimum frontage
of 60 feet at the setback line; however, to be buildable, the lot shall comply
with the frontage requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
No zoning permit shall be issued for a lot which abuts a non-public road or
public street dedicated to only a portion of its proposed width and located on
that side thereof from which the required dedication has not been secured.
   (b)   Principal structures. All principal structures shall be located on a
lot. Only one principal structure shall be located, erected, or moved onto a
lot. The Village Board may permit as a conditional use more than one principal
structure per lot in any district where more than one such structure is needed
for the orderly development of the parcel. Where additional structures are
permitted, the Village Board, subject to the recommendation of the Plan
Commission, may impose additional yard requirements, landscaping requirements,
or parking requirements, or require a minimum separation distance between
principal structures.
   (c)   Site suitability. No land shall be used or structure erected where the
land is held unsuitable for such use or structure by the Village Board, upon
the recommendation of the Plan Commission by reason of flooding, concentrated
runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation, unfavorable
topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength, erosion susceptibility,
or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety, prosperity,
aesthetics, and general welfare of this community. The Plan Commission, in
applying the provisions of the section, shall, in writing, recite the
particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that the land is not
suitable for certain uses. The applicant shall have an opportunity to present
evidence contesting such unsuitability if he or she so desires. Thereafter, the
Plan Commission may affirm, modify, or withdraw its determination of
unsuitability when making its recommendation to the Village Board.
   (d)   Preservation of topography. In order to protect the property owner
from possible damage due to change in the existing grade of adjoining lands and
to aid in preserving and protecting the natural beauty and character of the
landscape, no change in the existing topography of any land shall be made which
would result in increasing any portion of the slope to a ratio greater than one
and one-half horizontal to one vertical, within a distance of 20 feet from the
property line, except with the written consent of the owner of the abutting
property and with the approval of the Village Board, or which would alter the
existing drainage or topography in any way as to adversely affect the adjoining
property. In no case shall any slope exceed the normal angle of slippage of the
material involved, and all slopes shall be protected against erosion.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-14 HEIGHT AND AREA EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Height. The district height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this
chapter may be exceeded, but such modifications shall be in accord with the
following.
      (1)   Architectural projections. Spires, belfries, parapet walls,
cupolas, domes, flues, and chimneys are exempt from the height limitations of
this chapter.
      (2)   Special structures. Radio and television receiving antennas are
exempt from the height limitations of this chapter.
      (3)   Essential services. Utilities, water towers, electric power, and
communication transmission lines are exempt from the height limitations of this
chapter.
      (4)   Communications structures. Radio and television transmission and
relay towers, aerials, and observation towers shall not exceed in height three
times their distance from the nearest lot line.
      (5)   Agricultural structures. Barns, silos, and windmills shall not
exceed in height twice their distance from the nearest lot line.
      (6)   Public or semi-public facilities. Schools, churches, hospitals,
governmental offices, and stations may be erected to a height of 60 feet,
provided all required yards are increased not less than one foot for each foot
the structure exceeds the district’s maximum height requirement.
   (b)   Yards. The yard requirements stipulated elsewhere in this chapter may
be modified as follows.
      (1)   Uncovered stairs. Uncovered stairs, landings, and fire escapes may
project up to six feet into any yard, but shall not be closer than three feet
to any lot line.
      (2)   Architectural projections. Chimneys, flues, sills, window wells,
eaves, belt courses, and ornaments may project into any required yard; but such
projection shall not exceed two feet.
      (3)   Essential services. Essential service, utilities, electric power,
and communication transmission lines are exempt from the yard and distance
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Landscaping. Landscaping and vegetation are exempt from the yard
requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Additions. Additions in the street yard of existing structures
shall not project beyond the average of the existing street yards on the
abutting lots or parcels.
      (6)   Decks, porches, and handicapped ramps. For purposes of this
chapter, decks and porches shall be considered a part of a building or
structure for determining setback compliance (see §
13-1-40(1) for patios). Handicapped ramps shall not be considered a part of a
building for determining setback compliance.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-15 BULK STANDARDS.
   (a)   All structures shall comply with the requirements listed for each
zoning district in this chapter.
   (b)   All lots shall abut on a public street. Refer to additional standards
for lots and blocks in
Title 14, Subdivision Regulations.
   (c)   On lots fronting two nonintersecting streets, a front yard must be
provided on both streets.
   (d)   On lots fronting three or more streets and/or on sharply curved
streets, the determination of the yards and appropriate setbacks shall be made
by the Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-16 THROUGH 13-1-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE C: ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 13-1-20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish the zoning districts for the
village and the regulations for each district.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-21 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   Zoning districts. The following standard zoning districts are hereby
established in the village.
      (1)   R-R Rural Residential District.
      (2)   R-L Low-Density Single-Family Residential District.
      (3)   R-M Medium-Density Single-Family Residential District.
      (4)   R-MF Multi-Family Residential District.
      (5)   MHTH Mobile Home, Tiny Home Neighborhood District.
      (6)   R-T Rural Transitional District.
      (7)   I-A Intensive Agriculture District.
      (8)   B-G General Business District.
      (9)   B-H Highway Business District.
      (10)   D-MU Downtown Mixed-Use District.
      (11)   B-P Business Park District.
      (12)   P-C Park and Conservancy District.
      (13)   PD Planned Development District.
   (b)   District boundaries.
      (1)   Zoning map and amendments. The boundaries of the aforesaid
districts are hereby established as shown on the “Official Zoning Map, Village
of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin,” dated January 18, 2021, as amended periodically,
which is adopted by reference and made a part hereof. Such map, together with a
copy of this chapter, shall be available for public inspection in the office of
the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
The map shall be certified by the Village President and attested by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate. Any changes
in zoning district boundaries shall be recorded on the map. No change shall be
effective until so recorded and until a duly certified and attested certificate
describing the change is filed with the map. Changes to the zoning map (zoning
map amendments) shall further or not contradict the objectives, goals, and
policies contained in the Village Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Boundary lines. The district boundaries are either streets or
alleys, unless otherwise shown, and where the designation on the district map
indicates that the various districts are approximately bounded by a street or
alley line, such street or alley line shall be construed to be the district
boundary line.
         a.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and
where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots,
the district boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines and where the
designations on the district map are approximately bounded by lot lines, said
lot line shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
         b.   In subdivided property, the district boundary lines shown on the
district map shall be determined by use of the scale shown on such map.
      (3)   Vacation. Vacation of public streets and alleys pursuant to Wis.
Stats. § 840.11, shall cause the land vacated to be automatically placed in the
same district as the abutting side to which the vacated land reverts.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-22 R-R RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to allow for a low density semi-rural lifestyle
area where topographic features or the natural environment make the land less
suitable for row crop production or more intense development. Development in
this District is often integrated and appropriately incorporated into natural
or wooded areas, which often makes the most suitable use of land for single-
family homes on large lots. These areas are designed to be served by private
water and sanitary sewer systems on a permanent basis with no central sewers
planned for this area.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling and its accessory structure(s) or use(s).
      (2)   A licensed residential facility serving six or fewer persons.
      (3)   A licensed daycare facility serving 12 or fewer persons.
      (4)   Public parks and open space.
      (5)   Forest and wildlife management areas.
      (6)   Public utility infrastructure and offices.
      (7)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate eight or
fewer persons being served by the program, provided meets the requirements of
Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (8)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Permitted uses in unplatted areas.
      (1)   Single-family, detached, non-farm dwellings are permitted uses in
unplatted areas, subject to the following standards:
         a.   No more than four dwelling units per 40 acres shall be allowed;
         b.   A minimum frontage of 200 feet on a public road for each parcel;
         c.   A maximum of one access per residential lot on a public road;
         d.   1.   For lots recorded as of October 16, 2000, the following
additional lots may be created.
 
Areas in Acres as of October 16, 2000 Max. Number of Additional Lots Permitted
0 to 20                               0
More than 20 to 40                    1
 
            2.   The foregoing shall not apply to a single parcel of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet, and its conveyance
does not result in the division of a parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than 20 acres in area of 500 feet in width.
         e.   Density transfers for parcels larger than 40 acres shall be
permitted where the entire parcel has frontage on an existing public road.
      (2)   Solar energy systems and solar structures.
      (3)   Temporary roadside stand not to exceed one per farm.
      (4)   A group of not more than five unrelated persons maintaining a
common household and using common cookies and kitchen facilities.
   (c)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Licensed residential facilities serving seven through 16 persons.
      (2)   Accessory structures other than those listed as permitted.
      (3)   Churches.
      (4)   Cemeteries.
      (5)   Schools.
      (6)   Government and community buildings.
      (7)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate nine or
more persons being served by the program, provided meets the requirements of
Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (8)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility, or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure, per Article I.
      (9)   For dog kennels, refer to the village kennel licensing regulations
in §
7-1-3.
      (10)   Agricultural uses.
   (d)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum area. One and one-half acres exclusive of water bodies and
wetlands.
      (2)   Maximum height. Three stories, not including basement.
      (3)   Minimum building width. Twenty feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot width.
         a.   Unplatted. Two hundred feet.
         b.   Platted. One hundred sixty feet.
         c.   Cul-de-sacs. Eight feet at setback line.
      (5)   Minimum lot depth. Two hundred feet; provided, however, that the
depth of any lot in a minor subdivision shall not exceed three times the lot’s
width.
      (6)   Yards.
         a.   Street. Fifty feet minimum.
         b.   Side. Twenty-five feet minimum. Minimum side yard for garage/
carport is 20 feet.
         c.   Rear: Fifty feet minimum.
      (7)   Maximum building coverage. Thirty-five percent.
      (8)   Minimum building square footage. Minimum 1,200 finished square feet
per home.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-23 R-L LOW-DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to preserve and enhance areas for single-family
detached dwellings. The land use standards for this District permit primarily
single-family detached residential development at an approximate density of up
to three dwelling units per acre. Development within this District is primarily
served by public sanitary sewer and water services.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling and its accessory structure(s) or use(s).
      (2)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate eight or
fewer persons being served by the program, provided it meets the requirements
of Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (3)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (2)   Schools.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Government and community buildings.
      (5)   Public utility infrastructure and offices.
      (6)   Golf courses.
      (7)   Churches.
      (8)   Agricultural uses.
      (9)   Residential lot serviced by private water and sanitary. (Note: this
applies only to lots established and zoned under this District as of January
18, 2021.)
      (10)   Licenses daycare facility (12 or fewer individuals).
      (11)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate nine or
more individuals, in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (12)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot size.
         a.   Minimum area. Twelve thousand square feet minimum.
         b.   Minimum width. Ninety feet minimum.
      (2)   Building height. Thirty feet maximum.
      (3)   Yards.
         a.   Street. Thirty feet minimum.
         b.   Rear. Thirty feet minimum.
         c.   Side. Ten feet minimum.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-24 R-M MEDIUM-DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to create, preserve, and enhance areas for smaller
lot residential neighborhoods at an approximate density of five dwelling units
per acre. Neighborhoods in this District are typically dominated by single-
family residential dwelling structures, though it may accommodate other
residential dwelling structure types in infill situations, provided they fit
the neighborhood context and character. Development within this District is
served by public sanitary sewer and water services.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling and its accessory structure(s) or use(s).
      (2)   Two-family residential structure(s).
      (3)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate eight or
fewer persons being served by the program, provided it meets the requirements
of Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (4)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Those conditional uses prescribed for the R-L District.
      (2)   Up to four residential dwellings in one residential structure may
be allowed, provided the form of the residential structure complies with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot size.
         a.   Minimum area. Thirty-five feet minimum.
         b.   Minimum width. Seventy feet minimum.
      (2)   Building height. Thirty-five feet maximum.
      (3)   Yards.
         a.   Street. Twenty feet minimum.
         b.   Rear. Twenty feet minimum.
         c.   Side. Eight feet minimum.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-25 R-MF MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to create, preserve, and enhance areas for multi-
family uses in residential structures such as townhomes, multiplexes, or garden
style homes. Group homes, such as community based residential facilities
(CBRF), nursing homes, and assisted living, may also be most compatible within
this District. Development within this District is served by public sanitary
sewer and water services.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family residential dwelling and its accessory structure(s)
or uses(s).
      (2)   A multi-family dwelling unit structure containing up to and
including eight units.
      (3)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate 15 or
fewer persons being served by the program, provided it meets the requirements
of Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (4)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (2)   Schools.
      (3)   Medical and dental clinics.
      (4)   Cemeteries.
      (5)   Nursing homes.
      (6)   Government and community buildings.
      (7)   Public utility infrastructure and offices.
      (8)   Golf courses.
      (9)   Churches.
      (10)   Agricultural uses.
      (11)   Two-family residential structures.
      (12)   A multi-family dwelling unit structure containing more than eight
units.
      (13)   Residential occupancy of zero-lot line attached dwelling units of
zero-lot line subject to:
         a.   A maintenance agreement shall be entered into by the owners of
all zero-lot line parcels to ensure equal and reasonable maintenance and repair
schedules are conducted for all attached residential units;
         b.   An eight-foot maintenance easement, four-feet on each side of the
zero-lot line side property line, to allow for normal maintenance of each
single-family attached residential unit, shall be recorded with the Register of
Deeds office and a recorded copy provided to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk,
and highest elected official, as appropriate;
         c.   The dwelling wall abutting the zero-lot line shall be a one-hour
fire wall; and
         d.   Shall be served by municipal water and sewer.
      (14)   Community living arrangement with capacity to accommodate 16 or
more persons being served by the program, provided it meets the requirements of
Wis. Stats. § 60.63.
      (15)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot size.
         a.   Width. Eighty feet minimum.
         b.   Area. Nine thousand six hundred square feet.
      (2)   Building height. Maximum 45 feet or four stories, whichever is the
least.
      (3)   Yards.
         a.   Street. Twenty feet minimum.
         b.   Rear. Twenty feet minimum.
         c.   Side. Six feet minimum.
   (d)   Other requirements.
      (1)   The recreation space ratio, defined as the minimum square footage
of recreation space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less
than 0.16.
      (2)   The floor area ratio, defined as the maximum square footage, of
total floor area permitted for each foot of land area, is not more than 0.32.
      (3)   The open space ratio, defined as the maximum square footage of open
space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less than two.
      (4)   The living space ratio defined as the minimum square footage of
non-vehicular outdoor spaced required for each square foot of floor area, is
not less than 1.2.
   (e)   Zero-lot line lots having single-family attached dwelling structures.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. Five thousand square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. Forty feet.
      (3)   Minimum street yard setback. Twenty feet.
      (4)   Minimum zero-lot line side yard (shared) setback. Zero feet. A two-
foot eave protrusion shall be permitted across the zero-lot line into the
adjoining lot.
      (5)   Other. Remaining standards shall be the same as described in this
section.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-26 CONDITIONAL USES APPLICABLE TO ALL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Applicability. This section applies to residential districts of R-R,
R-L, R-M, and R-MF.
   (b)   Bed and breakfast establishment.
      (1)   As conditional use. Bed and breakfast establishments shall be
considered conditional uses and may be allowed in any residential district.
      (2)   State standards. Bed and breakfast establishments shall comply with
the standards of Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter SPS 320.
   (c)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (1)   As conditional use. An accessory dwelling unit shall be considered
a conditional use and may be permitted in the residential districts pursuant to
this article and subject to the following standards of this section.
      (2)   Not more than one accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted on a
lot.
      (3)   Accessory dwelling units shall be allowed only on a lot having at
least 8,000 square feet.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling units shall not exceed 800 square feet in floor
area and shall have a minimum floor area of 250 square feet.
      (5)   The property owner of record must reside in either the primary
dwelling unit or the accessory dwelling unit as their permanent and legal
address. A restrictive agreement shall be recorded to this effect.
      (6)   In addition to off-street parking spaces requirements for the
primary dwelling unit, a minimum of one off-street parking space of an
efficiency or one-bedroom accessory dwelling unit, or a minimum of two off-
street parking spaces for a two or more bedroom accessory dwelling unit, shall
be provided.
      (7)   The accessory dwelling unit shall not be conveyed or separated in
ownership from the primary dwelling unit.
      (8)   The accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all pertinent
building codes.
      (9)   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to or detached from the
single-family residence.
      (10)   Attached accessory dwelling units shall comply with the following.
         a.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be clearly incidental to the
principal dwelling unit and the building’s exterior shall appear to be single-
family.
         b.   Only one entrance may be located on the facade of the dwelling
facing the street, unless the dwelling contained additional entrances before
the accessory dwelling unit was created. An exception to this regulation are
entrances that do not have access from the ground such as entrances from
balconies or decks.
         c.   Fire escapes or exterior stairs for access to an upper level
accessory dwelling shall not be located on the front of the primary dwelling
unit.
      (11)   Detached accessory dwelling units shall comply with the following.
         a.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be subject to the requirements
of §
13-1-40, “Accessory uses or structures.”
         b.   The accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all building code
regulations relating to dwellings.
   (d)   Group homes.
      (1)   As conditional use. Group homes shall be considered conditional
uses and may be allowed in any residential district.
      (2)   Group homes that fall within the meaning of community living
arrangements are as defined in Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(l), or subsequent
relevant changes and that are identified as conditional uses in particular
districts of this chapter shall be governed in conditional use review by
standards of Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(l)9, and the process of Wis. Stats. § 62.23
(7)(l), shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-27 MHTH MOBILE HOME, TINY HOME NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to create, preserve, and enhance areas exclusively
designed for mobile home and tiny home developments.
   (a)   Minimum dimensional requirements; minimum number of lots or spaces.
      (1)   Where an MHTH District is to be established for the development of
a mobile home or tiny home neighborhood, the minimum area shall be ten acres.
      (2)   The minimum number of lots or spaces completed and ready for
occupancy before first occupancy is permitted shall be established as 50% of
total units permitted on the zoned site.
      (3)   These limitations shall not apply where expansion of an existing
mobile home park or neighborhood is concerned and where such expansion will not
increase variation from requirements applying to mobile home neighborhoods, as
set forth herein.
   (b)   Permitted and permissible uses and structures.
      (1)   Single-family detached mobile homes (residential mobile home) or
tiny home. In mobile or tiny home neighborhoods, recreational vehicles shall
not be occupied as living quarters and sales lots shall not be permitted, but
dwellings may be sold on lots or spaces they occupy in residential use.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Uses and structures that
are customarily accessory and clearly incidental to permitted principal uses
and structures shall be permitted, except for those requiring specific approval
as provided below.
      (3)   Rental. No mobile home or tiny home site shall be rented for a
period of less than 30 days.
   (c)   Standard requirements for mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods,
additions, or extensions. All mobile home and tiny home neighborhoods and
modifications of or additions or extensions to existing neighborhoods within an
MTH District shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters SPS 321, PSC 184 are hereby made a part
of this section and incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth;
except that such regulations shall not be deemed to modify any requirement of
this section or any other applicable law or ordinance of the state or village
which is more restrictive.
      (2)   Mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods shall contain a minimum of
ten acres of land. Additions to or extensions of mobile home parks shall
contain a minimum of one acre of land.
      (3)   Individual lots or spaces shall be not less than 5,000 square feet
in area and arranged to afford ample area for a variety of units, a setback of
50 feet from all public rights-of-way and 25 feet from any park drive or common
area, including common parking areas, 40 feet from all park boundary lines, and
20 feet from any other unit, building, or structure. Street frontage for
individual mobile home lots shall not be less than 50 feet. Accessory
structures, such as awnings, storage cabinets, carports, windbreaks or attached
porches, shall be considered part of the unit for purposes of determining
compliance with this section.
      (4)   No mobile home or tiny home neighborhood shall be laid out,
constructed, or operated without village water supply and sanitary sewer
service. All water or sanitary sewerage facilities in any unit not connected
shall be sealed, and their use is hereby declared unlawful.
      (5)   Individual valved water service connections shall be provided for
direct use of each unit, so constructed and installed that they will not be
damaged by frost or parking of the unit. Water systems shall be adequate to
provide a pure, potable water supply of six gallons per minute at a minimum
pressure of 20 psi, and capable of furnishing a minimum of 150 gallons per unit
per day. Fire hydrants shall be installed within 500 feet of every mobile home
stand and park building.
      (6)   All liquid wastes originating at units, service, or other buildings
shall be discharged into a sewerage system extended from and connected with the
public sewerage system. Such system shall comply with all provisions of the
state code and village ordinances relating to plumbing and sanitation. Each
individual space shall be provided with a three-inch watertight sewer
connection protected from damage by heaving and thawing or parking of the unit,
and located within the rear one-third of the stand, with a continuous grade,
which is not subject to surface drainage, so constructed that it can be closed
when not in use and trapped in such a manner that it can be kept odor free.
      (7)   Adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of solid and
liquid wastes in a manner approved by the Health Officer or Fire Chief. Open
burning of waste or refuse is prohibited.
      (8)   All television antenna systems; electrical and telephone
distribution lines and oil or gas piping serving the neighborhood or spaces
therein shall be installed underground. Distribution systems shall be new, and
all parts and installations shall comply with all applicable federal, state,
and local codes. Each space shall be provided with a weatherproof electrical
overcurrent protection device, disconnect means, and branch service of not less
than 60 amperes for 220 volt service located adjacent to the water and sewerage
outlets. Receptacles shall be on the one-pole-four-wire grounding type and have
a four-prong attachment for 110 to 220 volts.
      (9)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces surfaced with bituminous
concrete or similar material capable of carrying a wheel load of 1,000 pounds
shall be provided for each mobile home space.
      (10)   Condition of soil, ground, water level, drainage, and topography
shall not create hazards to the property, health, or safety of occupants of
mobile or tiny home spaces or living units. The site shall not be exposed to
objectionable smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse influences. No portion of
the neighborhood which is subject to unpredictable and or sudden flooding,
subsidence, or erosion shall be used for any purpose which would expose persons
or property within or without the park to hazards.
      (11)   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home or tiny
home neighborhood shall be paved or covered with stone screenings or other
solid materials or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of
preventing soil erosion and eliminating objectionable dust.
      (12)   The ground surface in all parts of every mobile home or tiny home
neighborhood shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe,
sanitary, and efficient manner.
      (13)   All mobile or tiny home neighborhoods shall be furnished with
lighting so spaced and equipped with luminaires placed at such heights as will
provide the following average maintained levels of illumination for the safe
movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
         a.   All parts of the park street systems: 0.6 foot-candles with a
minimum of 0.1 foot-candles.
         b.   Potentially hazardous locations, such as major park street
intersections and steps or stepped ramps, individually illuminated with a
minimum of 0.6 foot-candles.
      (14)   All mobile home or tiny home spaces shall abut upon a street.
Widths of streets shall be in accordance with the village’s subdivision and
platting code. All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard, and dense
surface which shall be well drained under normal use and weather conditions for
the area. Pavement edges shall be curbed or protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Grades of streets shall
be sufficient to ensure adequate surface drainage but not more than 8%,
provided a maximum grade of 12% may be used if approved by the village as safe
and designed to avoid traffic hazards. Streets shall be at approximately right
angles within 100 feet of an intersection. Intersections of more than two
streets at one point shall not be allowed. A distance of at least 150 feet
shall be maintained between centerlines of offset intersecting streets.
      (15)   In all mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods there shall be one
or more recreation areas easily accessible to all neighborhood residents. Such
areas shall include a total minimum of one lot per 30 spaces. If a park has
less than 30 spaces, one recreation area must be provided. No single
recreational area shall contain less than 5,000 square feet unless each mobile
home site is provided with contiguous common recreational area not less than 20
feet wide at the narrowest dimension. Recreation areas shall be so located as
to be free of traffic hazards and convenient to mobile home or tiny home spaces
which they serve.
      (16)   Single-family nondependent mobile homes or tiny homes and approved
accessory structures included in the original plans and specifications or
revisions thereof, parks, playgrounds, open space, off-street parking lots, one
park office and service buildings for exclusive use of park residents shall be
the only permitted uses in mobile home parks, provided the Village Board may
approve the following uses when designed and limited to exclusive use of
neighborhood residents.
         a.   Laundromats.
         b.   Clubhouses and facilities for private social or recreation clubs.
         c.   Swimming pools.
      (17)   No signs shall be erected in mobile home or tiny home
neighborhoods except signs pertaining to the lease, hire, or sale of individual
mobile homes or tiny homes not more than two square feet in area and one mobile
home or tiny home neighborhood identification sign not more than 50 square feet
in area at each park entrance.
      (18)   All mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to
each mobile home space. Entrances to neighborhoods shall be designed to
minimize congestion and traffic hazards, and allow free movement of traffic on
adjacent streets. The standards and requirements for mobile home or tiny home
neighborhood design, layout, and development contained in this section are
intended to be minimum standards necessary to create a safe, sanitary,
healthful, and agreeable environment in neighborhoods designed for mobile home,
tiny homes, and the village. The express enumeration of such standards shall
not preclude the governing body by resolution or bylaw, or express written
agreement, with the mobile home or tiny home neighborhood owner or developer
from imposing additional requirements or modifying the requirements set forth
in this section whenever it shall determine that such modifications or
additions are more likely to achieve the purposes of this section than those
set forth herein, and will not conflict with applicable laws of the state or
county.
   (d)   Annual mobile home or tiny home neighborhood operation license.
      (1)   No person shall operate, administer, or maintain a mobile home or
tiny home neighborhood within the village without a valid/unexpired license
issued by the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, and approved by the Village Board upon determination that the
standards in this section have been met and payment of the required fee.
      (2)   Mobile home or tiny home neighborhood licenses shall be issued for
a calendar year and shall expire on December 31 next succeeding date of issue.
Licenses may be issued after January 1 of any year, but not rebate or
diminution of the fee shall be allowed therefor.
      (3)   The fee for a mobile home or tiny home neighborhood license shall
be as established in the village’s annual fee schedule. Licenses may be
transferred during a license year upon payment of a fee as established in the
village’s annual fee schedule.
      (4)   Licenses granted under this section shall be subject to revocation
or suspension by the governing body for cause in accordance with Wis. Stats. §
66.0453(2)(d). CAUSE, as used in this subsection (d), shall include, but not be
limited to:
         a.   Failure or neglect to abide by the requirements of this section
or the laws or regulations of the state relating to mobile home parks and their
operation;
         b.   Conviction of any offense under the laws of the state or
ordinances of the village relating to fraudulent or misleading advertising or
deceptive practices regarding the sale or renting of mobile homes or tiny
homes, or the leasing or rental of mobile home of tiny home spaces or sale/
lease or operation of neighborhood facilities;
         c.   Operation or maintenance of the mobile home or tiny home
neighborhood in a manner inimical to the health/safety or welfare of park
occupants or the inhabitants of the village; including, but not limited to,
repeated violations of laws or ordinances relating to health, sanitation,
refuse disposal, fire hazards, morals, or nuisances; and/or
         d.   Transfer or sale of an ownership interest in any mobile home or
tiny home space or the underlying land other than to another eligible licensee.
Such action shall also subject the owner of the underlying land to all
requirements of the state and municipal subdivision control laws and
regulations regardless of the size or number of lots or spaces so transferred
or sold.
      (5)   Except as provided in subsection (f) below, no mobile home or tiny
home neighborhood license shall be granted for any premises or to any person
not meeting the following standards and requirements:
         a.   All standards and requirements set forth in this section, except
as specifically waived or modified in writing by the Village Board and endorsed
on the mobile home or tiny home neighborhood developer’s permit. This
requirement includes a valid certificate form the State Department of Health
and Social Services that the neighborhood complies with the provisions of Wis.
Admin. Code, Chapter SPS 321, applicable thereto.
         b.   Mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods shall be used only for the
parking and occupancy of single-family, nondependent mobile homes or tiny homes
and accessory structures, and appurtenances and uses authorized and approved
under § 13-l-27(c)(16).
         c.   Applicants shall file with the approving officer certificates of
the Building Inspector and Health Officer certifying that all equipment, roads,
sanitary facilities, water facilities, and other equipment and facilities have
been constructed or installed in the park as required by this section and are
in required operating condition at the time of said application.
         d.   Location and operation of the neighborhood shall comply with all
zoning and land use ordinances of the state and village, and no permit shall be
issued until the proposed use has been certified by the Building Inspector as
complying with such ordinances.
      (6)   Each applicant for an original or renewed license shall file with
the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
a bond, as specified in the village’s annual fee schedule, for each 50 mobile
home spaces or fraction thereof guaranteeing the collection by the licensee of
the monthly parking permit fees as provided in
Title 7, Chapter 5 and the compliance of the licensee and the neighborhood
management with the provisions of this code of ordinances. Such bond shall also
be for the use and benefit and may be prosecuted and recovery had thereon by
any person who may be injured or damaged by reason of the licensee violating
any provision of this section.
   (e)   Operation of mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods; responsibility of
neighborhood management.
      (1)   For every mobile home or tiny home neighborhood there shall be
located an office of the attendant or person in charge of said neighborhood. A
copy of the license and of this section shall be posted therein, and the
neighborhood register shall at all times be kept in said office. Said office
shall be located within the village.
      (2)   The attendant or person in charge and the neighborhood licensee
shall operate the neighborhood in compliance with this section and regulations
and ordinances of the village and state and their agents or officers, and shall
have the following duties.
         a.   Maintain a register of all neighborhood occupants, to be open at
all times to inspection by state, federal, and village officers, which shall
show:
            1.   Names and addresses of all owners and occupants of each mobile
home or tiny home;
            2.   Number of children of school age;
            3.   State of legal residence;
            4.   Date of entrance and departure of each mobile home or tiny
home; and
            5.   Make, model, year, and serial number of license number of each
mobile home or tiny home, and towing or other motor vehicles and state,
territory, or country issuing such licenses.
         b.   Notify neighborhood occupants of the provisions of this section
and inform them of their duties and responsibilities, and report promptly to
the proper authorities any violations of this section or any other violations
of law which may come to their attention.
         c.   Notify the Health Officer immediately of any suspected
communicable or contagious disease within the neighborhood.
         d.   Supervise the placement of each mobile home on its stand which
includes securing its stability and installing all utility connections and
tiedowns, and the placement of any tiny home in accordance with building code
requirements.
         e.   Maintain neighborhood grounds, buildings, and structures free of
insect and rodent harborage and infestation, and accumulations of debris which
may provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, and
other pests.
         f.   Maintain the neighborhood free from growth of noxious weeds.
         g.   Maintain the neighborhood free of litter, rubbish, and other
flammable materials, provide portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by
the Fire Chief in all locations designated by the Chief and maintain such
extinguishers in good operating condition, and cause every area within the
neighborhood designated as a fire lane by the Fire Chief to be kept free and
clear of obstructions.
         h.   Provide every mobile home and tiny home unit with a substantial
flytight, watertight, rodentproof container for the deposit of garbage and
refuse. The management shall provide stands for all refuse and garbage
containers so designed as to prevent tipping, and minimize spillage and
container deterioration, and facilitate cleaning.
         i.   Provide for the sanitary and safe removal and disposal of all
refuse and garbage at least weekly. Removal and disposal of garbage and refuse
shall be in accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances and
regulations of the village, including regulations promulgated by the Health
Officer and the Fire Chief.
         j.   Collect the monthly parking permit fee and cash deposits for each
occupied non-exempt mobile home or tiny home within the neighborhood, and remit
such fees and deposits to the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate. Neighborhood operators are responsible to assure for
the collection and payment to the Village Treasurer real estate taxes which are
levied upon the neighborhood, mobile homes, and tiny homes within the
neighborhood.
         k.   Allow inspections of neighborhood premises and facilities at
reasonable times by municipal officials or their agents or employees.
   (f)   Responsibilities and duties of mobile home or tiny home neighborhood
occupants.
      (1)   Neighborhood occupants shall comply with all applicable
requirements of this section and regulations issued hereunder, and shall
maintain their mobile home or tiny home space, its facilities, and equipment in
good repair, and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Neighborhood occupants shall be responsible for proper placement of
their mobile homes on the mobile home stand, tiny homes constructed in
accordance with building regulations, and proper installation of all utility
connections in accordance with the instruction of the park management.
      (3)   No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat, or other pet or animal
shall permit it to run at large or to cause any nuisance within the limits of
any neighborhood.
      (4)   Each owner or occupant of a non-exempt mobile home or tiny home
within a neighborhood shall remit to the license or authorized neighborhood
management the cash deposit and monthly parking permit fee.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a neighborhood to give
the park licensee or management, or his or her agent or employee, access to any
part of such neighborhood or mobile home or tiny home premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with this section, or any law or ordinance of the state or
village or lawful regulation or order adopted thereunder.
      (6)   Mobile homes shall be parked only on the mobile home stands
provided, and shall be placed thereon in accordance with all requirements of
this section.
      (7)   No mobile home or tiny home owner or occupant shall conduct in any
unit or any mobile home or tiny home neighborhood any business or engage in any
other activity which would not be permitted in single-family residential
districts in the village.
      (8)   No person shall discharge any wastewater on the surface of the
ground within any mobile home or tiny home neighborhood.
      (9)   No person shall erect or place upon any mobile home or tiny home
space any permanent or temporary structure intended to be used for dwelling
purposes or in connection with any mobile home unit except as specifically
authorized by this section.
   (g)   Mobile home or tiny home neighborhood developer’s permit.
      (1)   Requirement. No person shall construct, alter, modify, or extend
any mobile home or tiny home neighborhood, or mobile home or tiny home
neighborhood building or facility, within the limits of the village without
first having the property rezoned to the MHTH classification and securing a
mobile home or tiny home neighborhood developer’s permit from the village. Such
permits shall be issued by the Administrator upon approval by the Village
Board.
      (2)   Applications. Applications for mobile home or tiny home
neighborhood developers’ permits shall be filed with the Village Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, with sufficient copies for
the Building Inspector, members of the Plan Commission, and Fire Chief who
shall investigate and review said application to determine whether the
applicant, the premises on which said park will be located and the proposed
design and specifications thereof and all buildings proposed to be constructed
thereon will comply with the applicable regulations, ordinances, and laws of
the state and village, and report their findings in writing to the Village
Board within 60 days. Such reports shall be considered by the Village Board
before any permit is issued hereunder. Failure of any one of the above to
report within the allotted time shall be deemed a unfavorable recommendation.
      (3)   Fees. Applications for mobile home or tiny home neighborhood
developers’ permits shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the village’s
annual fee schedule to cover the cost of investigation and processing, plus
regular building permit fees for all buildings or structures to be erected
within the proposed neighborhood.
      (4)   Information. Applications shall be made on forms furnished by the
Administrator and shall include the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant;
         b.   Location and legal description of the proposed neighborhood,
addition, modification, or extension;
         c.   A complete plot plan showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this section and the Village Building Code, and zoning and
subdivision ordinances;
         d.   Complete preliminary engineering plans and specifications,
including a scale drawing of the proposed neighborhood showing, but not limited
to:
            1.   Plans and specifications of all utilities, including:
               i.   Sewerage collection and disposal;
               ii.   Stormwater drainage;
               iii.   Water and electrical distribution and supply;
               iv.   Refuse storage and collection;
               v.   Lighting; and
               vi.   Telephone and television antenna systems.
            2.   Location and width of roadways and walkways, buffer strips,
recreational, and other common areas;
            3.   The location of mobile home stands with the mobile home
spaces, including a detailed sketch of at least one typical mobile home space
and stand therein. The location of all tiny homes, including a detailed sketch
of at least one typical tiny home space;
            4.   Landscape plan showing all plantings; and
            5.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and structures
within the proposed neighborhood.
         e.   Interest of applicant in proposed mobile home or tiny home
neighborhood, or extension thereof. If the owner of the tract is a person other
than applicant, a duly verified statement shall be provided by the owner that
the applicant is authorized by him or her to construct and maintain the
proposed neighborhood, addition, modification, or extension, and make the
application; and
         f.   Written statements describing proposed neighborhood operations,
management, and maintenance, including proposed fees and charges, and other
requirements, to be imposed on neighborhood occupants by the neighborhood
operator.
      (5)   Final plans. Final engineering plans and specifications complying
with the provisions of this section, and any modifications or conditions
imposed by the governing body shall be submitted to the Administrator and
checked by the proper village officials for compliance before the license is
issued.
      (6)   Rezoning procedures. The procedures for creating an MHTH District
shall be as prescribed in Article J, §
13-1-124.
      (7)   Assignment of permits. No mobile home or tiny home neighborhood
developer’s permit, once issued, shall be assignable without the written
consent of the Village Board.
   (h)   Additional regulations on mobile homes, tiny homes, and associated
neighborhoods.
      (1)   a.   Wrecked, damaged, or dilapidated mobile homes or tiny homes
shall not be kept or stored in a mobile home or tiny home neighborhood, or upon
any premises in the village. The Health Officer or Building Inspector shall
determine if a mobile home or tiny home is damaged or dilapidated to a point
which makes it unfit for human occupancy. Such mobile homes or tiny homes are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
         b.   Whenever the appropriate officer so determines, he or she shall
notify the licensee or landowner and owner of the mobile home or tiny home in
writing that such public nuisance exists within the neighborhood, or on lands
owned by him or her, giving the findings upon which his determination is
listed, and shall order such home removed from the neighborhood or site or
repaired to a safe, sanitary, and wholesome condition of occupancy within a
reasonable time, but not less than 30 days.
      (2)   The Health Officer, Building Inspector, Fire Chief, Village
Engineer, Village Board, or their lawful agents or employees are authorized and
directed to inspect mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods not less than once
in every 12-month period to determine the health, safety, and welfare of the
occupants of the neighborhood and inhabitants of the village as affected
thereby, and the compliance of structures and activities therein with this
section and all other applicable laws of the state and ordinances of the
village.
      (3)   Fires in mobile home or tiny home neighborhoods shall be made only
in stoves and other cooking or heating equipment intended for such purposes.
Outside burning is prohibited except by permit and subject to requirements or
restrictions of the Fire Chief.
      (4)   All plumbing, building, electrical, oil, or gas distribution,
alterations, or repairs in the neighborhood shall be in accordance with the
regulations of applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations of the state and
municipalities and their authorized agents.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-28 R-T RURAL TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to allow for limited low density residential (not
multi-lot or subdivision development), general agricultural and forestry, and
related on-site processing, storage, and rural business uses that are
appropriate for certain larger parcels. This District accommodates AG-tourism
related uses. Development within this District is served by private water and
sanitary sewer services.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling and its accessory structure(s) or use(s).
      (2)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (3)   Agriculture or general farming, including dairying livestock and
poultry raising, nurseries, greenhouses, and other similar enterprises or uses,
except fur farms and farms operated for the disposal or reduction of garbage,
sewage, and rubbish (this includes new or existing livestock operations which
will house fewer than 500 animal units).
      (4)   Cemeteries.
      (5)   Public utility infrastructure and offices.
      (6)   Quarries.
      (7)   Churches.
      (8)   Taverns.
      (9)   Fairgrounds.
      (10)   Shooting clubs and preserves.
      (11)   Campgrounds.
      (12)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses. Siting and construction of any new mobile support
structure and/or facility or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service
facility on an existing support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot size.
         a.   Width. Two hundred seventy feet minimum.
         b.   Area. Two acres minimum.
      (2)   Building height. Thirty-five feet maximum except for barns, silos,
and other buildings and structures which are customarily higher and accessory
uses to farming.
      (3)   Yards. In no case shall any structure be closer than 40 feet from
any lot line; nor any dump, disposal area, incinerator, or principal structures
or buildings for mink farms, or farm feeding or using offal or garbage be less
than 500 feet from any lot line.
         a.   Street. Fifty feet minimum.
         b.   Rear. Fifty feet minimum.
         c.   Side. Fifty feet minimum.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-29 I-A INTENSIVE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to accommodate all sizes of agricultural
operations, whether by right or as a conditional use, as well as AG-related
processing uses. Lands within this District do not have access to village
services. The state legislature adopted Wis. Stats. § 93.90 (“Livestock
Facility Siting Law”) to govern livestock facilities, which is implemented by
administrative rule under Wis. Admin. Code Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter ATCP 51.
Terms used in this section that are not defined in Article O, “Definitions”
shall be fined using those definitions under Wis. Stats. § 93.90 and Wis.
Admin. Code, Chapter ATCP 51. The Livestock Facility Siting Law allows local
jurisdictions to review livestock facilities with 500 animal units or more as a
conditional use.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture or general farming, including dairying livestock and
poultry raising, nurseries, greenhouses, and other similar enterprises or uses,
except fur farms and farms operated for the disposal or reduction of garbage,
sewage, and rubbish.
      (2)   New or existing livestock operations which will house fewer than
500 animal units.
      (3)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
      (4)   Agricultural buildings.
      (5)   Accessory agricultural structures.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   A new or existing livestock operation, which houses or expands to
house 500 or more animal units (see §
13-l-125(p) for conditional use-specific livestock operations). Pursuant to
Wis. Admin. Code, § ATCP 51.06(2), approval may not be required for an existing
facility unless it expands beyond the previously approved maximum animal units,
or expands beyond 20% of the animal units kept before the effective date of the
approval requirements.
      (2)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility, or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Standards for livestock facilities with 500 animal units or more. A
livestock facility with 500 animal units or more shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Property lines. Except as provided for waste storage structures,
livestock structure must be located a minimum of 100 feet from the property
line if the livestock facility will have fewer than 1,000 animal units and 200
feet from the property line if the livestock facility will have 1,000 or more
animal units. The setback requirement does not prevent the use or expansion of
a livestock structure that was located within the setback area prior to the
effective date of the setback requirement, except that a structure may not be
expanded closer to the property line.
      (2)   Public road right-of-way. Except as provided for waste storage
structures, livestock structures must be located a minimum of 100 feet from the
public road right-of-way if the livestock facility will have fewer than 1,000
animal units, and 150 feet from a public road right-of-way if the livestock
facility will have 1,000 or more animal units. The setback requirement does not
prevent the use or expansion of a livestock structure that was located within
the setback area prior to the effective date of the setback requirement, except
that a structure may not be expanded closer to the public road right-of-way.
      (3)   Waste storage structure. A new waste storage structure may not be
located within 350 feet of a property line, or within 350 feet from a property
boundary. If any portion of an existing structure is closer than 350 feet from
a property boundary line, such structure may be expanded, provided the
expansion is not located any closer to the property boundary line than the
existing structure. A single new livestock waste storage structure may be
constructed closer than 350 feet if such structure:
         a.   Is located on the same tax parcel as a livestock waste storage
structure in existence before May 1, 2006;
         b.   Is lot larger than the existing structure;
         c.   Is no further than 50 feet from the existing structure; and
         d.   Is no closer to the property boundary line than the existing
structure. This setback requirement does not apply to existing waste storage
structures, except that an existing structure within 30 feet of a property line
or road may not expand toward the property line or road.
      (4)   All wells located within a livestock facility shall comply with
Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters NR 811 and 812. New or substantially altered
livestock structures shall be separated from existing wells by the distances
required in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters NR 811 and 812, regardless of whether
the livestock facility operator owns the land on which the wells are located. A
livestock structure in existence on May 1, 2006 may be altered as long as the
alteration does not reduce the distance between the livestock structure and an
existing well.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-30 B-G GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to permit areas having general business or office
uses, mostly at small or medium scale compatible with the village setting and
the neighborhood context. It may, but does not necessarily, include home
occupations. Development within this District is served by public sanitary
sewer and water services. The District is intended for mapping in commercial
areas on secondary streets, not within the downtown or highway commercial
areas.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Personal or professional service, including, but not limited to,
barber shops; beauty salons; banks; insurance and real estate offices; savings
and loan/finance companies.
      (2)   Indoor sales and services, including, but not limited to, hardware
and feed stores; drug stores; furniture stores; grocery stores; bakeries; fruit
stores; dry good stores; luggage shops; stationery stores; pet shops; clothing
stores; gift stores; variety stores; jewelry stores; shoe stores; packaged
beverage stores; appliance sales and repair; sporting goods; radio and
television sales and service; department stores; coin operated laundry; tobacco
and magazine stores; and music shops.
      (3)   Funeral parlors.
      (4)   Bakeries.
      (5)   Bars and cocktail lounges.
      (6)   Restaurants and cafes.
      (7)   Hotels, motels.
      (8)   Rooming houses.
      (9)   Public passenger transportation terminals.
      (10)   Theaters.
      (11)   Professional offices.
      (12)   Organization headquarters.
      (13)   Newspaper and magazine publishers.
      (14)   Catalogue order stores.
      (15)   Bowling alleys.
      (16)   Churches.
      (17)   Tobacco and magazine stores.
      (18)   Radio (without antenna).
      (19)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (20)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses.
      (2)   Wholesale outlets.
      (3)   Government and community buildings.
      (4)   Secondhand stores.
      (5)   Professional laundry and dry-cleaning establishments.
      (6)   Gas stations.
      (7)   Implement sales.
      (8)   Contractor’s offices.
      (9)   Automobile sales and service.
      (10)   Commercial storage and other uses similar or customarily incident
to the above uses.
      (11)   Residential above sidewalk level.
      (12)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility, or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot size. No minimum.
      (2)   Building height. Four stories or 45 feet maximum.
      (3)   Yards. Each site shall consider the surrounding context and provide
yards and setbacks similar to adjacent properties, with final determination to
be established by the village through the site plan review process in §
13-1-127. For existing buildings as of January 18, 2021, they are deemed to be
conforming with respect to yard and setback requirements.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-31 B-H HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to accommodate a wide range of commercial uses,
primarily serving travelers, along major highway corridors or as otherwise
directed by the comprehensive plan. Uses may include large- and small-scale
office, retail, commercial service, restaurant, and lodging uses. Development
within this District is served by public sanitary sewer and water services.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Gas stations.
      (2)   Automobile repair.
      (3)   Automobile sales and service.
      (4)   Implement sale and service.
      (5)   Drive-in establishments serving food and beverages for consumption
on premises.
      (6)   Motels, hotels.
      (7)   Drive-in theaters.
      (8)   Gift stores.
      (9)   Mobile home sales.
      (10)   Restaurants.
      (11)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (12)   Freight terminals and trans-shipment depots.
      (13)   Amusement parks and parking.
      (14)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure without substantial modifications, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Casino and gaming establishments.
      (2)   Other uses similar to or customarily incidental to any of the above
uses and extensive commercial uses requiring large land areas.
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
      (4)   Nightclubs.
      (5)   Sexually oriented businesses (see §
13-l-125(o) for conditional use, sexually oriented business standards).
      (6)   Siting and construction of any new mobile support structure and/or
facility or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an existing
support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Building height. Thirty-five feet maximum.
      (2)   Lot size.
         a.   Width. Eighty feet minimum.
         b.   Area. One-half acre minimum.
      (3)   Minimum yards.
         a.   Street. Eighty feet (may be parking).
         b.   Rear. Twenty feet.
         c.   Side. Twenty feet.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-32 D-MU DOWNTOWN MIXED-USE DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to permit mid-scale downtown commercial,
governmental, and institutional development, along with outdoor public spaces,
at an intensity which provides significant incentives for infill development,
redevelopment, and the commercial economic viability of existing downtown
development. The District is also intended to retain the existing “Main Street”
characteristics of the core blocks in the village’s historic downtown.
Residential uses are strongly preferred to occur as vertical mixed-use, with
the residential uses locating above the first floor.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Mixed use building.
      (2)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (3)   Public utility infrastructure and offices.
      (4)   Professional office.
      (5)   Personal or professional service (with uses allowed in this
classification in the B-G District).
      (6)   Indoor sales or services (with uses allowed in this classification
in the B-G District).
      (7)   Residential dwelling unit(s) above sidewalk level.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   First floor residential dwelling unit.
      (2)   First floor shall maintain visual form and function so that it
could revert or be converted to a commercial use in the future. Form elements
to consider include first floor entry above sidewalk grade, interior height,
depth of space, recessed entries, and building access.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Building height. Maximum of 45 feet or four stories, whichever is
the least.
      (2)   Lot size.
         a.   Width. No minimum.
         b.   Area. No minimum.
      (3)   Minimum yards.
         a.   Street. Twenty feet minimum.
         b.   Rear. Twenty feet minimum.
         c.   Side. Six feet minimum, except in the case of a common or shared
wall.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-33 B-P BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT.
   This District accommodates areas that are predominately industrial or office
in character with support institutions and service uses. The District includes
a range of research and development users, manufacturing, assembling,
fabrication and processing, storage, warehousing, and trucking uses.
Development within this District is served by public sanitary sewer and water
services.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Automobile repairs.
      (2)   Automotive upholstery.
      (3)   Cleaning.
      (4)   Pressing and dyeing establishments.
      (5)   Commercial bakeries.
      (6)   Commercial greenhouses.
      (7)   Distributors.
      (8)   Farm machinery.
      (9)   Feed mills.
      (10)   Dairy plants.
      (11)   Equipment repairs and storage.
      (12)   Railroad depots.
      (13)   Cooperatives.
      (14)   Laboratories.
      (15)   Machine shops.
      (16)   Printing and publishing.
      (17)   Storage and sale of lumber.
      (18)   Machinery and equipment sales.
      (19)   Contractor’s offices.
      (20)   Warehousing and wholesaling.
      (21)   Packaging and assembly of products from furs, glass, leather,
metals, paper, plaster, plastics, textiles, and wood.
      (22)   Manufacture, fabrication, processing, packaging and packing of
confections; cosmetics; electrical appliances; electronic devices; food except
cabbage, fish and fish products, meat products, and pea vining; instruments;
jewelry; pharmaceuticals; tobacco; and toiletries.
      (23)   Freight yards.
      (24)   Freight terminals and transhipment depots.
      (25)   Inside storage.
      (26)   Breweries.
      (27)   Agricultural uses.
      (28)   Public parks and open spaces.
      (29)   Research and development facilities.
      (30)   Professional office, accessory to a permitted or conditional use.
      (31)   Public utility infrastructure and office.
      (32)   Class 2 collocation of a new mobile service facility on an
existing support structure without substantial modification, per Article I.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Dumps and disposal areas. Incinerators and sewage disposal plants,
and earth and sanitary landfill operations.
      (2)   Manufacture. Processing of: abrasives, acetylene, acid, alkalies,
ammonia, asbestos, asphalt, batteries, bedding, bleach, bone, cabbage, candle,
carpeting, celluloid, cement, cereals, charcoal, chemicals, chlorine, coal tar,
coffee, coke, cordage, creosote, dextrine, disinfectant, dye, excelsior, felt,
fish, fuel, furs, gelatin, glucose, gypsum, hair products, ink, insecticide,
lime products, linoleum, matches, meat, oil cloth, paint, paper, peas, perfume,
pickle, plaster of paris, plastics, poison, potash, pulp, pyroxylin, radium,
rope, rubber, sausage, seeds, starch, stove polish, textiles, and varnish.
Manufacturing, processing and storage of building materials, explosives, dry
ice, fat, fertilizer, flammables, gasoline, glue, grains, grease, lard,
radioactive materials, shellac, soap, turpentine, vinegar, and yeast. Bag
cleaning, bleacheries, canneries, cold storage warehouses; electric and steam
generating plants; electroplating; enameling forges; foundries; garbage
incinerators; lacquering; lithographing; bulk gas storage and sales; offal,
rubbish or animal reduction; oil, coal and bone distillation; refineries; road
test facilities; slaughterhouses; smelting; stockyards; tanneries; and weaving.
      (3)   Outside storage and manufacturing areas. Wrecking, junk demolition,
and scrap yards shall be surrounded by a solid fence or evergreen planting
screen completely preventing a view from any other property or public right-of-
way and shall be at least 600 feet from residential or commercial structures.
      (4)   Retail sales, services. Retail sales and services that exclusively
or predominantly serve businesses and employees of the business park area, and
are a minor part (less than 25%) of the total parcel usages by area, volume, or
similar measures.
      (5)   Multi-family structures. Multi-family residential structure with up
to eight dwelling units.
      (6)   Mobile support structure. Siting and construction of any new mobile
support structure and/or facility, or Class 1 collocation of a new mobile
service facility on an existing support structure, per Article I.
   (c)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot size.
         a.   Width. Eighty feet.
         b.   Area. Ten thousand square feet.
      (2)   Building height. No maximum.
      (3)   Yards.
         a.   Street. Minimum ten feet.
         b.   Rear. Minimum 30 feet.
         c.   Side. Minimum ten feet.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-34 P-C PARK AND CONSERVANCY DISTRICT.
   This District is intended to accommodate parks, public recreational areas,
public open spaces, and private lands, and buildings available for either
public recreation and/or conservation. This District is also used to protect
valued natural resources, including those identified as environmental sensitive
areas (ESAs), wildlife habitat, or surface waters.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The harvesting of wild crops, such as marsh hay, ferns, moss, wild
rice, berries, tree fruits, tree seeds, and sustained yield forestry.
      (2)   Public utility infrastructure and offices.
      (3)   Fishing, scenic, historic, scientific, and wildlife preserve.
      (4)   Non-resident buildings used solely in conjunction with the raising
of waterfowl or fish.
      (5)   Hiking trails and bridle paths.
      (6)   Public and private parks and picnic areas, greenways, and open
spaces.
      (7)   Recreation related structures not requiring basements.
      (8)   General farming provided no drainage, filling, or dredging takes
place and no farm buildings are constructed.
   (b)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Filling, drainage, and dredging.
      (2)   Farm structures.
      (3)   Single-family residences.
      (4)   Dams, power plants, flowages, ponds, relocation of water courses,
removal of topsoil, or peat.
      (5)   Piers, docks, boathouses, and campgrounds.
      (6)   Cranberry bogs.
   (c)   Lot requirements. All lot requirements are as determined by the
Village Board through the subdivision process.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-35 PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (a)   (1)   The PD Planned Development District, pursuant to Wis. Stats. §
62.23(7)(b), provides a regulatory framework to encourage improved
environmental design by allowing flexibility in the development of land while
ensuring compliance with the basic intent of the zoning ordinance and with the
Village Comprehensive Plan. The Planned Development District has no set
standards and specifications. Developers can propose uses or combination of
uses, and configurations of intensity and density of development. Standards are
negotiated by the developer and the village; such negotiated standards have the
same legal force and effect as do standard zoning requirements.
      (2)   The objective of the Planned Development District is not simply to
allow exceptions to otherwise applicable regulations. It is instead to
encourage a higher level of design and amenity than is possible to achieve
under other zoning districts. An example application of use of the PDD is for a
conservation design subdivision, where due to the topographic and natural
features, the standards are relaxed, as negotiated by the village and the
developer.
   (b)   General requirements.
      (1)   Use regulations. The uses allowable in this district are the uses
approved as part of the general or detailed plan for particular sites that are
placed in the Planned Development District.
      (2)   Density and dimensional requirements. This section sets no
prescribed density or dimensional regulations in the Planned Development
District.
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading. There shall be no prescribed
requirements for off-street parking and loading in the Planned Development
District. However, in the review and approval of any general or detailed plan
in a Planned Development District, due consideration shall be given to the
requirements established in Article F for uses similar to those proposed in
such plan.
      (4)   Standards. The following standards shall apply in the review of all
general or detailed plans proposed for the Planned Development District.
         a.   The uses proposed in the planned development shall be in general
conformance with the Village Comprehensive Plan.
         b.   The planned development shall incorporate environmental design
considerations, including the preservation of topography, trees and ground
cover, streams and natural bodies of waters, and other significant natural
features and control of erosion and runoff in accord with the village’s erosion
control standards as identified in
Title 14, Subdivision Regulations.
         c.   The planned development shall provide for convenient and
harmonious groups of buildings, structures, and uses; and buildings shall be
spaced and sited to ensure adequate safety, light, ventilation, and privacy.
         d.   In a planned development for residential use, adequate open space
and recreational areas shall be provided in appropriate locations, and all
public and common open spaces shall be designed and located to provide safe and
convenient access to residents.
         e.   The width of street rights-of-way, width of paving, width, and
location of street or other paving, outdoor lighting, location of sewer and
water lines, provision for stormwater drainage, or other similar environmental
engineering considerations shall be based on a determination of the appropriate
standards necessary to implement the specific function in the specific
situation; provided, however, that in no case shall standards be less than
those necessary to ensure the public safety and welfare as determined by the
village.
         f.   The application for a Planned Development District shall provide
evidence satisfactory to the Village Board of its economic feasibility of
available adequate financing, and that it would not adversely affect the
economic prosperity of the village of the values of surrounding properties.
         g.   The application for a Planned Development District shall submit a
reasonable schedule for the implementation of the development to the
satisfaction of the Village Board, including suitable provisions for assurance
that each phase could be brought to completion in a manner that would not
result in an adverse effect upon the community as a result of termination at
that point.
      (5)   Minimum area. A Planned Development District shall not be less than
three acres of contiguous land under the same ownership. This requirement shall
not be interpreted to prohibit the post-development sale or all or part of an
approved PD subject to the provision of this section, and all applicable
statutes and subdivision regulations.
      (6)   Subdivision review. The applicable subdivision review under
Title 14, Subdivision Regulations, shall be carried out as an integral part of
the review of a Planned Development District. The plan required must be
submitted in a form that substantially satisfies requirements of the
subdivision regulations for the preliminary and final plat approvals.
Subdivision application may be submitted for the whole, a part, or parts of the
overall planned development as indicated by phases in the detailed plan for
staged development.
   (b)   Procedure for establishment of a Planned Development District. The
provisions set forth in Article J shall apply for the establishment of any
Planned Development District, provided the amendatory ordinance shall be
considered only in conjunction with a general or detailed plan.
   (c)   Pre-application procedures. Applicants are encouraged to seek
preapplication, conceptual review of proposed plans by the Plan Commission. The
Plan Commission is under no obligation to give a response to such submittals at
the same meeting as they are presented. The Plan Commission is entitled to seek
outside assistance and sources of critique. No responses by the Plan Commission
or by individual Plan Commissioners shall bind the Plan Commission or the
village unless the response is on behalf of the Plan Commission, is in writing
and is expressed as a binding response.
   (d)   Approval of general or detailed plan and adoption of zoning ordinance
amendment. In the event that the Village Board approves a general (or detailed)
plan and adopted a zoning amendment creating a Planned Development District in
connection with such general (or detailed) plan, the requirements of the plan
shall constitute the zoning regulations of the district, and the zoning
district maps shall be amended to show all lands included in such general (or
detailed) plan as within the Planned Development District. In the approval of
any general (or detailed) plan, the Village Board may stipulate any conditions
or restrictions in the establishment, maintenance, or operation of any uses
proposed in such plan, and may also require any guarantees, including the
filing of a contract together with a surety, satisfactory in form to the
Village Attorney and satisfactory to the Village Engineer, with the village to
ensure that improvements will be installed and completed as proposed in the
plan.
   (e)   Recording of approval general or detailed plans and zoning ordinance
amendments. Whenever the Village Board designates land as being within a
Planned Development District, the Village Clerk shall record, in the office of
the Register of Deeds of the county in which the lands belong, a facsimile copy
of the approved general (or detailed) plan, together with a certified copy of
the related zoning ordinance amendment and any other action taken thereon by
the Village Board. The cost of preparing a facsimile copy of the general (or
detailed) plan in recordable form and the recording fee shall be paid by the
owners of the lands included in the general (or detailed) plan.
   (f)   Changes or modifications to general or detailed plans and zoning
ordinance amendments. Any approved general or detailed plan, together with the
related zoning ordinance amendment, may be amended in whole or in part pursuant
to the same procedure and subject to the same limitations by which general or
detailed plans, were approved and the zoning ordinance amended. However, minor
modifications may be made by any general or detailed plan upon approval of the
Village Plan Commission provided that such modifications shall be in general
conformity with the approved general or detailed plan, and shall not
substantially change the concept of such approved plan. All approved minor
modifications shall become a part of the approved general or detailed plan, and
shall be recorded as provided in subsection (e) above. The Plan Commission
shall decide whether a proposed amendment is minor or major, with appeals made
to the Village Board.
   (g)   Construction of building and establishment of uses. No zoning or
building permit shall be issued for any lot within the Planned Development
District until the detailed plan and the related zoning ordinance amendment
have been recorded as required above. Within one year of the date of recording
of any detailed plan and the zoning ordinance, construction thereon must begin;
and construction must be substantially completed throughout the project within
three years of such date of recording, unless extensions are granted by the
Village Board. If initial construction has not begun within one year of the
date of recording or within the prescribed time period granted as an extension
by the Village Board, the approval of the detailed plan and the related zoning
ordinance amendment shall become null and void, and the zoning shall revert to
the classification that applied prior to the approval of the PDD zoning. No
occupancy of dwelling units shall occur until all public works that have been
scheduled to be completed before occupancy are completed to the satisfaction of
the village.
   (h)   Procedure for establishment of the “Planned Development District -
General Plan” for staged development.
      (1)   Submittal of general plan. The general plan shall contain any
information and representations deemed necessary by the Plan Commission, and
shall consist of a statement entitled “Planned Development District - General
Plan, Statement of Owner’s Intent and Description of Development” which shall
include, without limitation, the following.
         a.   A legal description describing all of the tract of land included
in the proposed development.
         b.   A statement indicating the nature of the applicant’s interest in
the land included in the proposed development.
         c.   A statement describing the proposed development, including the
character, method, and operation of the development and a development schedule
or timetable for construction.
         d.   A statement as to the following data or graphic information
referenced to a map or plan of the proposed development.
            1.   The location and size of the site, including dimensioned
exterior boundaries, topography, and other salient features, and existing
buildings and structures, and also adjacent properties and streets, including
all public utilities and public easements.
            2.   The use and approximate location and bulk of buildings and
structures, including number of stories and dimensions of buildings.
            3.   The approximate location of vehicular and pedestrian
facilities, such as streets, sidewalks, and off-street parking areas, including
approximate number of parking spaces.
            4.   The approximate location of areas for public or common open
spaces and for other public or semi-public uses.
            5.   A tabulation of land areas for the different types of uses in
relation to the total area.
            6.   A tabulation of the gross floor areas of buildings by types of
uses.
            7.   A tabulation of the number of types of dwelling units, if
applicable.
      (2)   Review of general plan. The Plan Commission shall review the
general plan and determine whether it complies with the standards set forth in
subsection (a)(4) above. Following review of the general plan, the Plan
Commission shall forward the petition to the Village Board, together with a
recommendation that the general plan be either approved as submitted or
approved with modifications, or disapproved.
      (3)   Approval of general plan.
         a.   In the event that the Village Board approves the general plan and
adopts the related zoning ordinance amendment, the zoning district maps shall
be amended to include all of the lands within the general plan as within the
Planned Development District (general plan approved). However, no building
construction shall be permitted in any portion of the approved general plan
until a detailed plan, prepared in accordance with the requirements hereunder,
has been approved by the village as provided below.
         b.   In the event the Village Board fails to approve the general plan
and ordinance, the Village Board shall communicate its objections back to the
Plan Commission for reconsideration and further discussions.
   (i)   Procedure for establishment of the “Planned Development District -
Detailed Plan” for staged development.
      (1)   Submittal of plan. Within one year after the recording of the
general plan and the copy of the related zoning ordinance amendment, a detailed
plan for at least one stage of the general plan shall be filed with the Village
Clerk, unless an extension is granted by the Village Board. The detailed plan
shall contain any information and representation deemed necessary by the Plan
Commission, and shall consist of a statement entitled, “Planned Development
District - Detailed Plan, Statement of Owner’s Intent and Description of
Development,” which shall include, without limitations, the following.
         a.   A legal description describing all of the tract of land included
in the proposed development, referenced to a locational map indicating the
relationship of the tract to the total general plan.
         b.   A statement indicating the nature of the applicant’s interest in
the land included in the proposed development.
         c.   A statement describing the proposed development, including the
character, method and operation of the development, and a development schedule
or timetable for construction. Where the formation of organizations, such as a
homeowners’ association, is proposed, such a statement shall include any
agreements, bylaws, or covenants which govern the organizational structure,
use, maintenance, and protection of the development, and any of its common
services, common open spaces, or other common facilities.
         d.   A statement as to the following date or graphic information
referenced to a map of the proposed development.
            1.   The location and size of the site, including dimensioned
exterior boundaries, topography, and other salient features, and existing
buildings and structures, and also adjacent properties and streets.
            2.   The use and location of all buildings or structures, including
the architectural character and design of each building, the number of stories
and dimensions of each building, and the dimensioned yards between buildings or
structure and lot lines.
            3.   The location of vehicular and pedestrian facilities, including
dimensioned streets, walkways, access driveways, off-street parking spaces, and
loading berths, and refuse receptacle areas.
            4.   The location and size of areas for public or common open
spaces, and for other public and semi-public uses.
            5.   A grading plan, including any storm sewer system, a
landscaping plan, and an erosion control plan.
            6.   A sanitary sewer and water distribution system plan.
            7.   A tabulation of land areas for the different uses in relation
to the total tract area.
            8.   A tabulation of the number of buildings and the use and the
total gross floor area for each building.
            9.   A tabulation indicating the number and types of dwelling
units, if any, in each building.
      (2)   Review of the detailed plan.
         a.   The Plan Commission shall review the detailed plan as a
conditional use review, and shall determine whether the plan complies with the
standards set forth in subsection (a)(4) above and is in general conformance
with the approved general plan. Following Plan Commission approval of a
detailed plan, the Village Clerk shall record in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county in which the lands belong a facsimile copy of the approved
detailed plan and a certified copy of the Plan Commission action approving the
same. The costs for copies and recordings shall be paid by the owners of the
land within the plan areas.
         b.   The action of the Plan Commission on the proposed detailed plan
shall be appealable to the Village Board. The Village Board shall consult with
the Plan Commission before making its appeal decision, but in no case shall a
detailed plan be approved that is out of conformity with the corresponding
approved general plan.
      (3)   Approval of detailed plan. Once the detailed plan is approved, the
zoning district maps shall be amended to include all of the lands within the
detailed plan as Planned Development District detailed plan approved.
   (j)   “Planned Development District - Single-Stage” procedure. Upon request
by the applicant and subject to Village Board concurrence, the general and
detailed stages of plan review and approval can be combined. Under this option,
the plan is submitted in detailed form and is processed as is a general plan.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-36 THROUGH 13-1-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE D: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 13-1-40 ACCESSORY USES OR STRUCTURES.
   (a)   Principal use to be present. An accessory use or structure in any
zoning district shall not be established prior to the principal use or
structure being present or under construction. Any accessory use or structure
shall conform to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is
located, except as specifically otherwise provided.
   (b)   Placement restrictions; residential district. An accessory use or
structure in a residential district may be established subject to the following
regulations.
      (1) Accessory building number limits. In any residential district, in
addition to the principal building, a detached garage or attached garage and
one additional accessory building may be placed on a lot.
      (2)   Attached accessory buildings. All accessory buildings which are
attached to the principal building shall comply with the yard requirements of
the principal building.
      (3)   Detached accessory buildings. Detached accessory buildings are
permitted in the rear yard only. No detached accessory building shall occupy
more than 20% of the required rear yard or be located within three feet of any
other accessory building, ten feet of the principal structure, or five feet of
any alley. Larger accessory use buildings may be permitted following issuance
of a conditional use permit. Accessory buildings not attached to the principal
building shall conform to the setback requirements of the district in which
located. In no event can the accessory uses or structures be forward of the
front line of the principal structure. Accessory structures shall not exceed 15
feet in height.
   (c)   Use restrictions; residential district. Accessory uses or structures
in residential districts shall not involve the conduct of any business, trade,
or industry except for home occupations as further described in §
13-1-43.
   (d)   Placement restrictions; non-residential districts. An accessory use or
structure in a business or manufacturing district may be established in the
rear yard or side yard. Accessory buildings not attached to the principal
building shall conform to the setback requirements of the district in which
located.
   (e)   Reversed corner lots. When an accessory structure is located on the
rear of a reversed corner lot, it shall not be located beyond the front yard
required on the adjacent interior lot to the rear, nor nearer than three feet
to the side line of the adjacent structure.
   (f)   Landscaping and decorative uses. Accessory structures and vegetation
used for landscaping and decorating may be placed in any required yard area.
Permitted structures and vegetation includes flag poles, ornamental light
standards, lawn furniture, sun dials, bird baths, trees, shrubs and flowers,
and gardens.
   (g)   Temporary accessory uses. Temporary accessory uses, such as real
estate sale field offices or shelters for materials and equipment being used in
the construction of the permanent structure, may be permitted by the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (h)   Garages in embankments in front yards. Where the mean natural grade of
a front yard is more than eight feet above the curb level, a private garage may
be erected within the front yard, provided as follows.
      (1)   Such private garage shall be located not less than five feet from
the front lot line.
      (2)   The floor level of such private garage shall be not more than one
foot above the curb level.
      (3)   At least one-half the height of such private garage shall be below
the mean grade of the front yard.
   (i)   Outdoor lighting. Outdoor lighting installations shall not be
permitted closer than three feet to an abutting property line and, where not
specifically otherwise regulated, shall not exceed 15 feet in height, and shall
be adequately shielded or hooded so that no excessive glare or illumination is
cast upon the adjoining properties.
   (j)   Lawn accessories. Walks, drives, paved terraces, and purely decorative
garden accessories such as pools, fountains, statuary, flag poles, and the
like, shall be permitted in setback areas but not closer than three feet to an
abutting property line other than a street line.
   (k)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls may be permitted anywhere on the lot,
provided, however, that no individual wall shall exceed six feet in height, and
a terrace of at least three feet in width shall be provided between any series
of such walls and provided further that along a street frontage no such wall
shall be closer than three feet to the property line.
   (l)   Patios/decks. Patios/decks at ground level or at a floor level shall
be no more than four feet above ground at any point under the deck (decks at
greater height are considered part of the structure and may not intrude into
setback areas). There shall be a ten-foot minimum separation measure in from
any side (or the side yard setback of the subject property’s zoning district,
whichever is lesser) or rear lot line to the edge or side of the structure
unless the applicant has obtained a signed and notarized affidavit of consent
to run with the land from the owner(s) of record of the neighboring properties
identifying a closer distance, and has recorded this against both parcels in
the Register of Deeds office and with the Village Zoning Administrator, Clerk,
and highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-41 OUTSIDE STORAGE OF FIREWOOD.
   (a)   No person shall store firewood in the front yard on residentially
zoned property, except that firewood may be temporarily stored in the front
yard for a period of 30 days from the date of its delivery.
   (b)   Firewood should be neatly stacked and may not be stacked closer than
three feet to any lot line and not higher than six feet from grade, except
adjacent to a fence where firewood can be stacked against the fence as high as
the fence. FENCES, as used in this section, shall not include hedges and other
vegetation.
   (c)   All brush, debris, and refuse from processing of firewood shall be
promptly and properly disposed of, and shall not be allowed to remain on the
premises.
   (d)   Woodpiles that contain diseased wood that is capable of transmitting
disease to healthy trees, and woodpiles that harbor or are infested or
inhabited by rats or other vermin are public nuisances, and may be abated
pursuant to the provisions of this code of ordinances.
   (e)   Not more than 20% of the side and rear yard may be used for storage of
firewood at any one time.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-42 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (a)   Definition. A PRIVATE or RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL is an outdoor
structure containing a body of water in a receptacle or other container having
a depth for water at any point greater than one and one-half feet located above
or below the surface of ground elevation, used or intended to be used solely by
the owner, operator, or lessee thereof and his or her family, and by friends
invited to use it, and includes all structural facilities, appliances and
appurtenances, equipment, and other items used and intended to be used for the
operation and maintenance of a PRIVATE OR RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL.
   (b)   Exempt pools. Storable children’s swimming or wading pools, with a
maximum dimension of 15 feet and a maximum wall height of 15 inches and which
are so constructed that it may be readily disassembled for storage and
reassembled to its original integrity, are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   (c)   Permit required. Before work is commenced on the construction or
erection of private or residential swimming pools, or on any alterations,
additions, remodeling, or other improvements, an application for a swimming
pool building permit to construct, erect, alter, remodel, or add must be
submitted in writing to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate. Plans and specifications, and pertinent explanatory
data should be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, at the time of application. No work or any
part of the work shall be commenced until a written permit for such work is
obtained by the applicant. A fee as set forth in the village’s fee schedule
shall accompany such application.
   (d)   Construction requirements. In addition to such other requirements as
may be reasonably imposed by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, shall not issue a permit for construction as provided for in
subsection (b) above, unless the following construction requirements are
observed.
      (1)   All materials and methods of construction in the construction,
alteration, addition, remodeling, or other improvements and pool installation
shall be in accord with all state regulations and code, and with any and all
ordinances of the village now in effect or hereafter enacted.
      (2)   All plumbing work shall be in accordance with all applicable
ordinances of the village and all state codes. Every private or residential
swimming pool shall be provided with a suitable draining method and, in no
case, shall waters from any pool be drained into the sanitary sewer system, or
onto lands of other property owners adjacent to that on which the pool is
located on in the general vicinity.
      (3)   All electrical installations, including lighting and heating, but
not limited thereto, which are provided for, installed, and used in conjunction
with a private swimming pool shall be in conformance with the state laws and
village ordinances regulating electrical installations.
   (e)   Setbacks and other requirements.
      (1)   Private swimming pools shall be erected or constructed on rear or
side lots only and only on a lot occupied by a principal building. No swimming
pool shall be erected or constructed on an otherwise vacant lot. A lot shall
not be considered vacant if the owner owns the contiguous lot and said lot is
occupied by a principal building.
      (2)   No swimming pool shall be located, constructed, or maintained
closer to any side or rear lot line than is permitted in the zoning code for an
accessory building, and in no case shall the water line of any pool be less
than six feet from any lot line.
   (f)   Fence.
      (1)   Pools within the scope of this section which are not enclosed with
a permanent building shall be completely enclosed by a fence of sufficient
strength to prevent access to the pool. Such fence or wall shall not be less
than six feet in height and so constructed as not to have voids, holes, or
openings larger than four inches in one dimension. Gates or doors shall be kept
locked while the pool is not in actual use.
      (2)   The pool enclosure may be omitted where portable pools are
installed above ground and have unobstructed walls a minimum of 36 inches high
on the top.
   (g)   Compliance. All swimming pools existing at the time of passage of this
code of ordinances not satisfactorily fenced shall comply with the fencing
requirements of this section or when water is placed in the pool.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-43 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (a)   Intent. The intent of this section is to provide a means to
accommodate a small family business within a residence without the necessity of
a rezoning into a commercial district or obtaining a conditional use permit.
   (b)   Accessory use. Home occupations are determined to be an allowed
accessory use in all residential districts. Permits are not required prior to
engaging in such activities, but the following standards apply.
      (1)   The activity must be clearly secondary and incidental to the
primary residential use.
      (2)   The activity must not significantly alter the residential character
of the dwelling unit, dwelling structure, or the parcel.
      (3)   The home occupation shall not occupy more than 25% of the floor
area of the dwelling.
      (4)   The home occupation shall be conducted only within the enclosed
areas of the dwelling unit, or attached or detached garage.
      (5)   The activity must not unreasonably interfere with the residential
occupancy of other parcels in the neighborhood.
      (6)   The activity must not create environmental, safety, or health
hazards such as noise, light, odors, vibrations, electrical emissions, or other
fire or safety hazards that are noticeably out of character with those produced
by normal residential occupancy.
      (7)   The use shall not involve the use of commercial vehicles for more
than occasional delivery of materials to or from the premises, and traffic
generated by the home occupation may not exceed that which is customary to
residential occupancies in the neighborhood.
      (8)   No storage or display of materials, goods, supplies, or equipment
related to the operation of the home occupation shall be visible outside any
structures located on the premises.
      (9)   Signage for the home occupation is governed by §
13-1-101.
      (10)   The parcel and structure must contain adequate area to accommodate
the home occupation without interfering with residential occupancy of other
parcels in the neighborhood.
      (11)   Under no circumstances shall a kennel business or a vehicle repair
or body work business qualify as a home occupation.
      (12)   Garage sales as a type of home occupation are allowable in all
residential districts, provided that not more than two are held on a single
premises per year and that each such sale shall not exceed four days in
duration.
      (13)   Daycare is allowable as a home occupation on a residential
premises. Conditional use approval may be required, however, if Wis. Stats. §
66.1017, or as it may be hereafter amended, applies.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-44 THROUGH 13-1-50 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE E: MANUFACTURED HOME, MOBILE HOME, AND TINY HOME STANDARDS
§ 13-1-51 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to establish regulations for
manufactured homes, mobile homes, and tiny homes.
   (b)   It is not the intent of this article to exceed Wisconsin State Uniform
Dwelling Code (WI State UDC) regulations. Where in conflict with the WI State
UDC or other state regulations, the more restrictive rule shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-52 MANUFACTURED HOMES IN RESIDENTIALLY ZONED AREAS.
   All manufactured homes in any residential zoning district shall be supported
by a permanent enclosed foundation constructed to standards as outlined in the
“Permanent Foundations Guide for Manufactured Housing” (HUD 0007487, now HUD
4930.3G) with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, as
prescribed below.
   (a)   Placement of manufactured homes without U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) approval shall require special approval of the Village
Board, but under no circumstances shall an unapproved home serve as a year-
round dwelling.
   (b)   A manufactured home shall be placed on a permanent foundation meeting
the requirements of HUD-007487, now HUD 4930.3G “Permanent Foundations Guide
for Manufactured Housing,” except as follows.
      (1)   A manufactured home may be placed on a permanent foundation meeting
the requirements of Chapter COMM 22 of the Wisconsin Uniform Dwelling Code if
the home is constructed for such placement.
      (2)   A manufactured home placed in a manufactured home park shall be
governed under §
13-1-27.
      (3)   The Building Inspector may waive the requirement for a design
professional.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-53 MOBILE HOMES.
   (a)   Mobile home construction standards. It is the intent of this section
to recognize mobile homes constructed prior to October 1, 1974, as distinct and
different from units designated as mobile homes within the definitions of this
section and to prohibit units not meeting the requirements for mobile homes as
defined herein. Units constructed prior to 1974 are prohibited. Mobile homes
meeting the requirements of the One- and Two-Family Building Dwelling Code
shall not be permitted in a MHTH District, except as a conditional use. Permits
may be obtained only after approval by the Village Board.
   (b)   Location in mobile home neighborhoods. Except as provided in
subsection (c) below, no person shall park, locate, or place any mobile home
outside of a properly zoned and licensed mobile home park in the village,
except unoccupied mobile homes may be parked on the lawfully situated premises
of a licensed mobile home dealer for the purposes of sale display; the lawfully
situated premises of a vehicle service business for purposes of servicing or
making necessary repairs; the premises leased or owned by the owner of such
mobile home for purposes of sales display for a period not exceeding 120 days,
provided no business is carried on therein, or in an accessory private garage,
building, or rear yard of the owner of such mobile home, provided no business
is carried on therein.
   (c)   Location of outside and mobile home neighborhoods.
      (1)   Limitations. Until such time as an approved mobile home
neighborhood is constructed, the total number of mobile homes allowed in the
village grandfathered as non-conforming uses shall be the number in existence
at the date of adoption of this code of ordinances. Those lots within the
village currently housing mobile homes are subject to the grandfather clause of
§
13-1-27 (a) and to the other requirements contained in this subsection (c),
provided that the mobile home is resident-owned. It is the intent of this
section to require all mobile homes to be located within a properly approved
and zoned mobile home neighborhood, while noting that there are within the
village a limited number of pre-existing non-conforming mobile homes located
outside of such neighborhoods.
      (2)   Issuance of permits.
         a.   Permits are to be issued only to the owner of the lot upon which
the mobile home is to be placed, and shall apply to that lot and not to the
mobile home itself.
         b.   No permit shall be issued for the movement of a mobile home from
one lot in the village to another lot within the village.
      (3)   Other requirements.
         a.   No mobile home shall be allowed in the village without the
obtaining of a building permit from the Village Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate. Owners of lots upon which homes are
currently located within the village shall apply for a permit within 30 days of
the passage of this section.
         b.   All grandfathered mobile homes located outside of a mobile home
neighborhood shall comply with the following minimum requirements.
            1.   The home must be set on a concrete pier extending below the
frost line and have a minimum of six tiedowns at regular intervals on the site
and leveling devices placed upon six inches of gravel.
            2.   The home must be skirted in a manner which will prevent rodent
infestation.
            3.   The placement of the home on the site and the site itself must
meet all requirements of the Zoning Code for the district wherein it is
located.
            4.   Adequate stairways must be provided for each doorway.
            5.   Village water and sewer system hookups must be provided for
each mobile home.
            6.   Mobile homes must have a minimum of 600 square feet of floor
space. Said space is determined by the length, less the tongue, times the
width.
         c.   All requirements of §§
13-1-27(f) and
13-1-27(h) must be followed.
         d.   Only nondependent mobile homes shall be allowed.
         e.   All provisions relating to the collection of a monthly parking
fee of
Title 7, Chapter 5 shall apply. The owner of the mobile home shall be
responsible for the prompt payment of said fees.
      (4)   Replacement. Grandfathered non-conforming mobile home units allowed
outside of a mobile home park under subsection (d) below may be replaced with a
more modern unit.
   (d)   All mobile homes shall be skirted. Areas enclosed by such skirting
shall be maintained free of rodents and fire hazards.
   (e)   Additions, alterations. No person shall construct, alter, or add to
any structure, attachment, or building in a mobile home park or on a mobile
home space without a permit from the Village Building Inspector. Construction
on an addition or alteration to the exterior of a mobile home shall be of the
same type of construction and materials as the mobile home affected. No permit
shall be issued unless the value of the home already existing is in excess of
$6,000. Said value shall be determined by the Tax Assessor. This subsection (a)
shall not apply to addition of awnings, antennae, or skirting to mobile homes.
Accessory structures on mobile home spaces shall comply with all setback, side
yard, and rear yard requirements for mobile home units.
   (f)   Mobile home stands. Before a mobile home is located on a space within
a mobile home neighborhood, a stand consisting of concrete piers extending
below frost and having tiedown and leveling devices with six-inch gravel. At
least six tiedowns shall be provided at regular intervals on each slab.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-54 TINY HOMES.
   (a)   Where allowed.
      (1)   Tiny houses are permitted as a principal use in the MHTH District,
subject to the regulations outlined in §
13-1-27.
      (2)   Tiny houses may be allowed by conditional use as accessory dwelling
units in residential districts, subject to the supplemental regulations in this
section, §
13-1-26, and the use regulations for accessory dwelling units, as described in
§
13-1-40.
      (3)   A tiny house on wheels is considered a “camping unit” and is only
permitted in a camping ground.
   (b)   General standards. All tiny houses shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Each tiny house shall be located on its own individual lot, except
when established as an accessory dwelling unit.
      (2)   Construction of the house shall comply with any applicable building
code.
      (3)   Each house shall be installed on a permanent foundation, with
wheels and chassis removed.
      (4)   Each house shall be connected to water and sewer utilities (public
water, public sewer, private well, and/or an approved septic system).
   (c)   Porches. A tiny house permitted as a principal use shall have a porch
that:
      (1)   Is oriented towards common open space or a public or approved
private street;
      (2)   Has a minimum width of four feet or 75% of the building facade
width, whichever is greater; and
      (3)   Has a minimum depth of five feet.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-55 THROUGH 13-1-59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE F: NON-CONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, AND LOTS
§ 13-1-60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish regulations for the following
non-conforming situations created legally prior to the effective date of this
section: non-conforming uses, non-conforming and substandard lots, non-
conforming structures, and other non-conforming sites.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-61 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (a)   The lawful and established non-conforming use of a structure or land,
including, but not limited to, fences, parking, and buildings, existing at the
time of the adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued although the
use does not conform with the provisions of this chapter. However, only that
portion of the land in actual use may be so continued and the structure may not
be extended, enlarged, reconstructed, substituted, moved, or structurally
altered except when required to do so by law or order or so as to comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Substitution of new equipment may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals if such equipment will reduce the incompatibility of the non-conforming
use with the neighboring uses.
   (c)   If a non-conforming use or the use (conforming or non-conforming) of a
structure that is non-conforming (as it relates to zoning setbacks, heights,
and the like) is discontinued for a period of 12 months, any future use of the
building, premises, structure, or fixture shall conform to the chapter.
   (d)   Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (c) above, a manufactured home
community licensed under Wis. Stats. § 101.935, that is a legal non-conforming
use continues to be a legal non-conforming use notwithstanding the occurrence
of any of the following activities within the community:
      (1)   Repair or replacement of homes.
      (2)   Repair or replacement of infrastructure.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-62 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (a)   The lawful non-conforming structure existing at the time of the
adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued although its size or
location does not conform with the lot width, lot area, yard, height, parking
and loading, and access provisions of this chapter. However, it shall not be
extended, enlarged, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except when
required to do so by law or order or so as to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (b)   Total lifetime structural repairs or alterations of a lawfully
established non-conforming building shall not exceed 50% of the village’s
assessed value of the building, premises, structure, or fixture at the time of
its becoming a non-conforming use unless it is permanently changed to conform
to the use provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
         DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS. The part of this chapter that applies to
elements including setback, height, lot coverage, and side yard.
         NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A dwelling or other building that existed
lawfully before this chapter was enacted or amended, but that does not conform
to one or more of the development regulations in this chapter.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits, or limits based on cost, the
repair, maintenance, renovation, or remodeling of a non-conforming structure.
   (d)   (1)   Restrictions in this chapter that are applicable to damaged or
destroyed non-conforming structures and that are contained in an ordinance
enacted under this subsection (a) do not prohibit the restoration of a non-
conforming structure if the structure will be restored to the size, subject
subsection (c)(2) above, location, and use that it had immediately before the
damage or destruction occurred, or impose any limits on the costs of the
repair, reconstruction, or improvement if all of the following apply.
         a.   The non-conforming structure was damaged or destroyed on or after
March 2, 2006.
         b.   The damage or destruction was caused by violent wind, vandalism,
fire, flood, ice, snow, mold, or infestation.
      (2)   The structure may be larger than the size it was immediately before
the damage or destruction if necessary, for the structure to comply with
applicable state or federal requirements.
   (e)   Where a building located in a district restricted against its use has
been destroyed by fire or other calamity to the extent of not more than 50% of
its value assessed by the village, the same may be rebuilt; but where such a
building is destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its assessed value, a
permit may be granted for its reconstruction within 12 months from the date of
such fire or other calamity, except any public utility located in a restricted
district shall be permitted to rebuild, alter, or enlarge in any business or
industrial district as the interest of the public demands.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-63 CHANGES AND SUBSTITUTIONS.
   Once a non-conforming use or structure has been changed to conform, it shall
not revert back to a non-conforming use or structure. Once the Board of Zoning
Appeals has permitted the substitution of a more restrictive non-conforming use
for an existing non-conforming use, the substituted use shall lose its status
as a legal non-conforming use and become subject to all the conditions required
by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-64 NON-CONFORMING AND SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   (a)   No lot shall be created which does not meet the lot dimensional
requirements of the associated zoning district.
   (b)   Legal non-conforming or substandard lots, as detailed in Article F,
may be utilized as a building site for a permitted use (but not for a
conditional use) in the associated zoning district, if all of the following
apply.
      (1)   Such lot has never been developed with one or more of its
structures placed partly upon an adjacent lot or parcel.
      (2)   Such lot is developed to comply with this chapter and other
applicable chapters of the village municipal code.
   (c)   Conforming structures existing at the time of the adoption or
amendment of this chapter may be continued, although the lot does not conform
to the newly adopted or amended requirements of this chapter, as long as all
uses on the lands containing the structure are legal conforming uses.
   (d)   Each aforementioned structure may be extended, enlarged, substituted,
moved, remodeled, modified, added to, or rebuilt as long as any such change
conforms to the established building setback lines along streets and the other
lot and building requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-65 THROUGH 13-1-69 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE G: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 13-1-70 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to identify the standards and minimum
requirements for highway access, traffic visibility, loading, off-street
parking, fencing, screening, and general welfare standards.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-71 HIGHWAY ACCESS.
   (a)   Highway access. No direct private access shall be permitted to the
existing or proposed rights-of-way of expressways, nor to any controlled access
arterial street without permission of the highway agency that has access
control jurisdiction. No direct public or private access shall be permitted to
the existing or proposed rights-of-way of freeways, interstate highways, and
their interchanges or turning lanes, nor to intersecting or interchanging
streets within 1,500 feet of the most remote end of the taper of the turning
lanes (such as exit and entrance ramps). No driveway openings shall be
permitted within 100 feet of the intersection of an arterial street right-of-
way line.
   (b)   Access barriers. Access barriers, such as curbing, fencing, ditching,
landscaping, or other topographic barriers, shall be erected to prevent
unauthorized vehicular ingress or egress to the above specified streets or
highways.
   (c)   Temporary access. Temporary access to the above rights-of-way may be
granted by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, after review and recommendation by the highway agencies having
jurisdiction. Such access permit shall be temporary, revocable, and subject to
any conditions required, and shall be issued for a period not to exceed 12
months.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-72 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY; VISION CLEARANCE TRIANGLES.
   (a)   Within vision clearance triangles, no obstructions, such as signs,
structures, fences, parking, earthwork, vegetation, or other obstructions
between 30 inches and ten feet in height shall be permitted, except for tree
trunks, mailboxes, and sign poles.
   (b)   The vision clearance triangle shall apply where public streets
intersect, and where private driveway and alleys intersect with public streets,
per the following standards.
      (1)   Where public streets intersect, or whether a private driveway or
alleys intersect with a public street. To draw the first two lines of the
triangle, measures 15 feet from the point of intersection of the two-street
right-of-way along the two right-of-way lines. Next, draw a third straight line
between the ends of the first two lines to form the vision clearance triangle.
      (2)   In the case of arterial streets intersecting with other arterial
streets or railways, the corner cut-off distances establishing the triangular
vision clearance space shall be increased to 50 feet.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-73 LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Loading space requirements. On every lot on which a business, trade or
industrial use is hereafter established, space with access to a public street
or alley shall be provided as indicated below for the loading and unloading of
vehicles off the public right-of-way.
 
Use                                  Floor Area (sq. ft.)   Loading Space(s)
Retail, wholesale warehouse, service 0 - 1,500              None
manufacturing, and industrial        1,500 - 10,000         1
establishments                       10,000 and greater     2
                                     Each additional 20,000 1
 
   (b)   Multiple or mixed uses. Where a building is devoted to more than one
use or for different uses and where the floor area for each use is below the
minimum required for a loading space but the aggregate floor area of such uses
is above such a minimum, then off-street loading space shall be provided as if
the entire building were devoted to that use in the building for which the most
loading spaces are required.
   (c)   Location. Required off-street loading spaces shall be located on the
same lot with the principal use requiring such space. No loading space shall be
located within 30 feet of the nearest point of intersection of two streets or
require any vehicle to back into a public street.
   (d)   Design standards. Each off-street loading space shall have a width of
at least 12 feet, a length of at least 45 feet, and a vertical clearance of at
least 14 feet. Dimensions for loading spaces in connection with funeral homes
shall be reduced to ten feet in width, 25 feet in length, and eight feet in
vertical clearance. Every loading space shall be sufficiently screened in the
form of a solid fence or shrubbery to protect neighboring residences.
   (e)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches thick, surfaced with not
less than two inches of asphalt or treated with some comparable all-weather
dustless material.
   (f)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
residence district.
   (g)   Utilization. Space allocated to any off-street loading berth shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities, or portions thereof.
   (h)   Central loading. Central loading facilities may be substituted for
loading berths on the individual zoning lots provided the following conditions
are fulfilled.
      (1)   Each zoning lot served shall have direct access to the central
loading area without crossing streets or alleys at grade.
      (2)   Total berths provided shall meet the requirements based on the sum
of the several types of uses served. (Areas of types of uses may be totaled
before computing the number of loading berths.)
      (3)   No zoning lot served shall be more than 300 feet removed from the
central loading area.
      (4)   The tunnel or ramp connecting the central loading area with the
zoning lot served shall be not less than seven feet in width and have a
clearance of not less than seven feet.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-74 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   All new parking lots and all alterations of existing lots shall be subject
to the approval of the Village Board, after a recommendation from the Plan
Commission. Requests for said parking lots shall be accompanied with detailed
plans on landscaping, parking layout, drainage provisions, and driveway
locations. In all districts, except those areas which are located within the
fire zone as designated on the official map, there shall be provided at the
time any use or building is erected, enlarged, extended, or increased off-
street parking stalls for all vehicles in accordance with the following.
   (a)   Access. Adequate access to a public street shall be provided for each
parking space.
   (b)   Design standards. Each required off-street parking space shall be at
least 180 square feet, and have a stall width of at least ten feet and a stall
length of at least 18 feet. No parking area of more than four spaces shall be
designed as to require any vehicle to back into a public street. Large expanses
of unchanneled parking areas shall be avoided by interior landscaping and
safety islands.
   (c)   Location.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be on the same lot as the principal use or
not over 300 feet from the principal use.
      (2)   Off-street parking is permitted in all yards of all districts
except in the front yards of single-family and two-family residence districts
but shall not be closer than five feet to a side lot line, right-of-way line,
or rear lot line, or 25 feet to a residential district lot line.
      (3)   Off-street parking in the single-family residence and two-family
residence districts is permitted in the front yard in the driveway, even though
closer than five feet to a side lot line providing the driveway conforms to the
requirements in §
13-1-71.
   (d)   Surfacing. All off-street parking areas, except a single parking space
accessory to a single-family dwelling, shall be surfaced with an all-weather
material, such as compacted stone, gravel, or blacktop. All off-street parking
areas shall be graded and surfaced so as to be properly drained. Any parking
area for more than five vehicles shall have the aisles and spaces clearly
marked except parking area serving single-family dwellings.
   (e)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Special residential requirements. Those parking areas for five or
more vehicles if adjoining a residential use shall be screened from such use by
a solid wall, fence, evergreen planting of equivalent visual density, or other
effective means, built and maintained at a minimum height of five feet. Where a
solidly constructed decorative fence is provided along the interior lot line,
the minimum setback for the parking area shall be five feet from said lot line.
Said fence shall be located a minimum of one foot from the said lot line.
      (2)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in association with parking facilities provided in
residence districts.
      (3)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties and public streets in such a
way as not to create a nuisance. However, in no case shall such lighting exceed
three foot-candles measured at the lot line.
      (4)   Street setback area. No parking shall be permitted between the
street right-of-way line and the building setback line prevailing in the zone
in which the proposed parking area is to be located. The resulting open area
shall be planted in grass or otherwise landscaped to create a permanent green
area.
   (f)   Curbs. Curbs or barriers shall be installed a minimum of four feet
from a property line so as to prevent the parked vehicles from extending over
any lot lines.
   (g)   Number of parking stalls required.
Type of Use Parking Stalls Required
Type of Use                             Parking Stalls Required
                                        Five stalls for each alley, plus one
Bowling alleys                          stall per 300 gross square feet used
                                        for restaurants, bars, and the like
Campgrounds and travel trailer parks    One stall per campsite or parking site
Churches, theaters, auditoriums,
community centers, vocational and night One stall for each five seats
schools, and other places of public
assembly
Funeral homes                           One stall for each four seats
Hospitals, clubs, lodges, dormitories,  One stall for each two beds plus one
lodging, and boarding houses            stall for each three employees
Hotels and motels                       One stall for each guest room plus one
                                        stall for each three employees
Manufacturing and processing plants,    One stall for each three employees
laboratories, and warehouses
Medical and dental clinics              Three stalls for each staff member
                                        One and one-half stall for each
Multi-family dwellings                  dwelling unit, except in housing for
                                        the elderly this ratio shall be 0.5
                                        stalls per dwelling unit
Restaurants, bars, and places of        Parking stalls equal to 30% of capacity
entertainment                           in persons
Secondary and elementary schools        One stall per two employees plus one
                                        stall per ten students
Single-family dwellings, mobile homes,  Two stalls for each dwelling unit
and tiny homes
 
   (h)   Uses not listed. In the case of structures or uses not mentioned, the
provision for a use which is similar shall apply. Floor space or area shall
mean the gross floor area inside the exterior walls, where floor space is
indicated above as a basis for determining the amount of off-street parking
required.
   (i)   Combined uses. Combinations of any of the above uses shall provide the
total of the number of stalls required for each individual use. Two or more
uses may provide required off-street parking spaces in a common parking
facility less than the sum of the spaces required for each use individually,
provided such uses are not operated during the same hours. A written agreement
satisfactory to the Village Attorney shall accompany any joint use arrangement.
   (j)   Handicapped parking requirements. In addition to any other
requirements relating to parking spaces contained in these ordinances, the
provisions contained in Wis. Stats. §§ 101.13, 346.503, and 346.56, and any
Wisconsin Administrative Code sections adopted pursuant thereto are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to all parking facilities whenever
constructed.
   (k)   Changes in buildings or use. Whenever a building or use is changed,
structurally altered, or enlarged to create a need for an increase of 25% or
more in the number of existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on
the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a building or use is enlarged
to the extent of 50% or more in the floor area, said building or use shall then
comply with the parking requirements set forth in the district in which it is
located.
   (l)   Off-lot parking.
      (1)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same lot
with the principal use, or when this requirement cannot be met, such parking
spaces may be located off-lot provided the parking spaces are located in the
same district. Off-lot parking spaces shall also be held in fee simple
ownership by the owner of the use requiring such parking or be leased or rented
through a written agreement satisfactory to the Village Attorney.
      (2)   Off-lot parking spaces for residential uses shall be within 250
feet of the principal entrance or the entrance for the individual occupants for
whom the spaces are reserved while the farthest portions of a parking lot for
all other uses shall be within 300 feet of the entrance of the establishment.
      (3)   Accessory parking may be located in residential districts provided
that said lots or property are immediately adjacent to a commercial, business,
or industrial zoning district.
      (4)   All off-street parking lots adjoining lots zoned for residential
use shall have a minimum setback of ten feet from any interior lot line, except
if the adjoining lot is used for legally conforming parking purposes.
   (m)   During site plan review, as described under §
13-1-27, the village may reduce the number of required parking stalls or allow
land banking for future parking stalls.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-75 FENCING.
   (a)   Fences defined. For the purpose of this section, a FENCE is herein
defined as an enclosed barrier consisting of vegetation, plastic, vinyl, wood,
stone, or metal intended to prevent ingress or egress. For the purpose of this
section, the term FENCE shall include plantings, such as hedges and shrubbery.
No fence shall be constructed of unsightly or dangerous materials which would
constitute a nuisance.
   (b)   Fences categorized. Fences shall be categorized into five
classifications.
      (1)   Boundary fence. A fence placed on or within three feet of the
property lines of adjacent properties.
      (2)   Protective fence. A fence constructed to enclose a hazard to the
public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   Architectural or aesthetic fence. A fence constructed to enhance
the appearance of the structure or the landscape.
      (4)   Hedge. A row of bushes of small trees planted close together which
may form a barrier, enclosure, or boundary.
      (5)   Picket fence. A fence having a pointed post, stake, pale, or peg
laced vertically with the point or sharp part pointing upward to form a part of
the fence.
   (c)   Height of fences regulated. Except for swimming pool fences, a fence
or wall may be erected, placed, maintained, or grown along a lot line on
residentially zoned property or adjacent thereto pursuant to subsection (d)
below to a height not exceeding six feet above the ground level, except that no
such fence, wall, hedge, or shrubbery which is located in a required front or
corner side yard shall exceed a height of four feet. Where such lot line is
adjacent to a non-residential zoned property, there shall be an eight-foot
limit on the height of a fence, wall, hedge, or shrubbery along such lot line.
   (d)   Setback for residential fences. Fences in or adjacent to a residential
property may be constructed on lot lines within setback areas.
   (e)   Security fences. Security fences are permitted on the property lines
in all districts except residential districts but shall not exceed ten feet in
height and shall be of an open type similar to woven wire or wrought iron
fencing.
   (f)   Prohibited fences. No fence shall be constructed which is of a
dangerous type of construction or which conducts electricity or is designed to
electrically shock.
   (g)   Fences to be repaired. All fences shall be maintained and kept safe
and in a state of good repair, and the finished side or decorative side of a
fence shall face adjoining property.
   (h)   Temporary fences. Fences erected for the protection of planting or to
warn of construction hazard, or for similar purposes, shall be clearly visible
or marked with colored streamers or other such warning devices at four foot
intervals. Such fences shall comply with the setback requirements set forth in
this section. The issuance of a permit shall not be necessary for temporary
fences as described herein, but said fences shall not be erected for more than
45 days.
   (i)   Non-conforming fences and hedges. Any fence or hedge existing on the
effective date of this municipal code and not in conformance with this section
may be maintained, unless it would violate vision triangle standards, but no
alteration, modification, or improvement of said fence shall comply with this
section.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-76 SCREENING.
   (a)   Mechanical equipment (heating, air conditioners, and ventilation) that
will be readily visible when viewed from ground level from other properties or
from major public ways should be softened by screening or covered in a manner
that forms an integral part of the building design. Rooftop equipment may
require the use of an extended parapet wall or other integrated roof form.
   (b)   External garbage or refuse containers shall be screened by walls,
fences, berms, or effective landscaping, or combinations thereof.
   (c)   The storage of materials, fuel, scrap, inoperative vehicles, and
similar objects in places that are readily visible from major public rights-of-
way or parts of neighboring properties where a significant amount of viewing is
expected shall be minimized and, where necessary, shall be effectively
screened.
   (d)   Any use or conditional use listed in this chapter requiring screening
or fencing shall be permitted only when authorized by the Village Board, upon
the recommendation of the Plan Commission, and subject to its approval of a
screening or fencing plan for that particular use.
   (e)   Planting or other suitable screening including fences or freestanding
walls shall be required where deemed necessary for screening or enclosure
purposes by the Village Board, upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission,
such as around outdoor storage yards and industrial property lines, salvage
yards, refuse disposal sites, quarries and mines, mobile home parks, and
trailer camps. Such provisions shall be required to the extent needed to
provide for:
      (1)   Screening of objectionable views;
      (2)   Adequate shade;
      (3)   Enclosure of storage materials;
      (4)   Public health and safety; and
      (5)   A suitable setting for the particular use and other facilities.
   (f)   Maintenance. All screenings, fences, and walls required by this
chapter shall be maintained so as not to prove an objectionable view by
themselves.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-77 NOISE.
   No operation or activity shall transmit any noise exceeding 75 dBA from 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and 65 dBA from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. beyond the property
line. The following noises are exempt from the regulations.
   (a)   Noises not directly under the control of the property owner.
   (b)   Noises from temporary construction or maintenance activities during
daylight hours.
   (c)   Noises from emergency, safety, or warning devices.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-78 VIBRATION.
   (a)   No operation or activity shall transmit any physical vibration that is
above the vibration perception threshold of an individual at or beyond the
property line of the source. Vibration perception threshold means the minimum
ground- or structure-borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a normal
person to be aware of the vibration by such direct means as, but not limited
to, sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects.
   (b)   Vibrations not directly under the control of the property user and
vibrations from temporary construction or maintenance activities shall be
exempt from the above standard.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-79 EXTERNAL LIGHTING.
   No operation or activity shall produce any intense glare or lighting with
the source directly visible beyond the property boundary.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-80 ODOR.
   No operation or activity shall emit any substance or combination of
substances in such quantities that create an objectionable odor as defined in
Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 429.03.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-81 PARTICULATE EMISSIONS.
   No operation or activity shall emit into the ambient air from any direct or
portable source any matter that will affect visibility in excess of the
limitations established in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter 415.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-82 VISIBLE EMISSIONS.
   No operation or activity shall emit into the ambient air from any direct or
portable source any matter that will affect visibility in excess of the
limitations established in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 415.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-83 HAZARDOUS POLLUTANTS.
   No operation or activity shall emit any hazardous substances in such a
quantity, concentration, or duration as to be injurious to human health or
property, and all emissions of hazardous substances shall not exceed the
limitations established in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 400.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-84 STANDARDS FOR THE B-H, D-MU, AND B-P DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Site design.
      (1)   An overall site amenities theme and materials palette shall be
presented and approved by the village as part of the site plan review process
required under §
13-1-127.
      (2)   Buildings along with trees and landscaping shall be predominant.
Parking lots and freestanding signs shall be secondary features of a site.
      (3)   Loading docks or delivery doors shall be placed to reduce
visibility from residential areas or public streets.
      (4)   To ensure that building entrances are welcoming and easily
identifiable from the street and sidewalks, the principal entry for persons to
the building shall be marked by an architectural element such as a building
canopy, large entry doors, or landscaping with seating.
      (5)   Pedestrian and bicycle connections into and throughout the site
shall be clearly defined. Pedestrian access to the building shall be visually
and functionally clear and shall offer a convenient access.
      (6)   Provide accessible and high-quality bicycle parking. Bicycle racks
shall be placed within 50 feet or the primary entrance of the building they are
intended to serve.
      (7)   Parking lots shall have decorative landscape treatment at the
perimeter of the lot and, for larger lots, in island areas within the lot, to
provide break-up of the expanse of paving.
      (8)   All sites shall be planned and constructed so that surface drainage
drains from structures.
   (b)   Building architecture, mass, and articulation.
      (1)   An overall architectural theme and building materials palette shall
be presented and approved by the village as part of the site review process.
      (2)   Buildings shall include articulation along the facades facing and
visible from public rights-of-way; flat blank walls are not allowed.
      (3)   Building masses and long, straight fronts and sides (relative to
the overall length of the building) that are visually accessible shall be
broken up and made more variegated with staggers and offsets, with landscaping
or surficial features or with accumulation of mass in the form of smaller,
related units.
      (4)   Any side of the building visible from a street or public open space
shall be given architectural treatment utilizing windows, awnings, or other
architectural details.
   (c)   Landscaping and lighting.
      (1)   The proposed site shall provide landscaping of sufficient height
and density to accomplish positive visual impact and complement the site and
building.
      (2)   Exterior lighting shall be established, directed and maintained so
as not to be cast directly on public right-of-way or occupied structures or
neighboring properties or be lighted in intensity or colors seriously
disturbing to neighboring properties.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-85 THROUGH 13-1-89 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE H: SIGNS
§ 13-1-90 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this article is to establish standards for signage
that protect and preserve the public health, welfare, and safety, advance
aesthetic and community character objectives, promote compatible business
development and activity, and ensure the effective and flexible use of signage
for commercial, community, and individual expression.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-91 COMPLIANCE.
   No sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without conformance with the
provisions of this article and a sign permit, unless exempted from sign permit
requirements under §
13-1-94.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-92 NON-COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   (a)   Any sign authorized by this article may contain a non-commercial
message.
   (b)   Non-commercial signs shall be subject to the same permit requirements,
restrictions on size and type, and other specifications set forth in this
article.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-93 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (a)   Signs lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter
may be continued although the size or location does not conform with the
provisions of this article. Such signs shall be deemed non-conforming and the
non-conforming use and structure provisions under Article F of this chapter
shall apply.
   (b)   No non-conforming sign shall be enlarged, physically altered, or
replaced by another sign relocated, whether on or off of the premises on which
it was situated at the time that it became non-conforming without causing it to
become a conforming sign under this article. These limitations shall not apply
to the changing of messages or the contents of the sign. All non-conforming
signs shall be removed at the time of a change in business on the premises upon
which the sign is located.
   (c)   Non-conforming signs may be routinely maintained, but no repairs shall
be made to them for the purpose of prolonging its anticipated life beyond what
is reasonably anticipated as of the time such repairs are proposed to be made.
   (d)   Without the express, written consent of the village, no new signs,
including, but not limited to, those capable of being permitted under this
article may be erected on any premises upon which a non-conforming sign is
located unless the non-conforming sign is brought into full compliance with
this article or is removed.
   (e)   Non-conforming signs which have been abandoned in accord with §
13-1-95 lose their non-conforming status and shall be removed from the premises
upon which they are located in accord with the procedures set forth in §
13-1-95. Thereafter, no sign may be erected on the same premises that is not in
full compliance with the provisions of this article.
   (f)   A change in business or other use that necessitates a new sign message
or sign structure shall require the sign be brought into conformance with the
provisions of this article, including an application for a sign permit.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-94 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs are exempt from the regulations contained in this
chapter.
   (a)   A sign posted by the village, a county, state, or federal agency.
   (b)   A sign integrated into or on an automatic teller machine, coin-
operated machine, or vending machine.
   (c)   A sign carried by a person.
   (d)   A sign not visible from any public street, highway, sidewalk, bicycle
path, or park.
   (e)   Street addresses and numbers as required by the U.S. Postal Service.
   (f)   Murals and other work of art that are not related by logo, pictorial
depiction, or other means to the advertisement of any product or service or the
identification of any business.
   (g)   Holiday lights and decorations containing no commercial message.
   (h)   Flags of the United States and the state and other countries or
states, up to a maximum of three flags per parcel. If the flag is displayed on
a flagpole, the maximum dimension of any flag shall be proportional to the
flagpole height, and the hoist side of the flag shall not exceed 20% of the
vertical height of the pole. Flags must be flow in accordance with protocol
established by U.S. Congress. Any flag not meeting these requirements shall be
considered a sign subject to the requirements of this article, and not allowed
as an exemption under this section.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-95 ABANDONED AND DILAPIDATED SIGNS.
   A sign that is deemed to have been abandoned by the owner or user is subject
to the following.
   (a)   Each sign advertising an on-premises business that has not been
conducted upon or from the premises for six months in succession shall be
removed by the owner of the premises upon which it is located, or his or her
lessee of said property. All other abandoned signs shall be removed upon order
of the Building Inspector.
   (b)   Dilapidated signs or signs beyond repair under the provision of Wis.
Stats. § 66.0413, shall be removed upon order of the Building Inspector. For
purposes of this subsection (b), a DILAPIDATED SIGN is one that is so old and
out of repair as to become dangerous or unsafe, whether to the public at large
or merely to guests and invitees on the premises on which it is located.
   (c)   In the event that the owner of a premises upon which an abandoned or
dilapidated sign is situated, or his or her lessee fails or refuses to remove
such sign, the village may, upon notice of its intent to remove it, sent by
first class mail or personally delivered to the owner of the premises upon
which the sign is located, remove the sign and impose the cost thereof against
the real estate as a special charge under Wis. Stats. § 66.0627.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-96 SIGN PERMITTING AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (a)   General requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
modify, or move any sign for which a permit is required under this article
without first obtaining a sign permit from the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, in addition to being in compliance
with all of the provisions of this article, each sign shall meet the structural
requirements of the Village Building Code.
      (2)   Permits shall not be required for changes in messages, repainting,
cleaning, normal maintenance, or other general refurbishing of any sign.
      (3)   For purposes of permits, a double-faced sign shall be equivalent of
one sign.
      (4)   Sign permits issued by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, for the erection, construction, enlargement,
modification, or moving of a sign shall be subject to the following time
limitations: Work permitted by the permit issued shall commence within 60 days
of the date of issue or the permit shall be null and void. Each sign or work on
a sign subject to a permit shall be completed within six months after the date
of the permit of the owner shall be required to apply for and receive another
permit before continuing to work on the sign.
   (b)   Application. Each application for a sign permit shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
on a form provided by that office prior to sign installation or modification.
Each complete application shall include the following.
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and property
owner.
      (2)   Location of the building, structure, or lot upon which the sign is
to be attached or erected.
      (3)   Name of the person, firm, corporation, or association erecting the
sign.
      (4)   If located on land not owned by the owner of the sign subject to
the application, the written consent or approval or a lease or other form of
contract executed by the owner of the land on which the sign is to be placed,
indicating that permission has been granted for placement of the sign at the
location in question.
      (5)   A scale drawing of the proposed sign, indicating the design of the
sign including colors to be used, the materials to be used in its construction,
the proposed means of construction or erection, any lighting that is proposed
for the sign, and a description of the means by which the sign will be attached
to a building or other structure, or to the ground.
      (6)   A scale site plan showing the location of the building, other
structure or site on a given premises to which the sign is to be attached or
affixed, demonstrating the relationship of the sign to buildings and other
structures on the premises and its property lines.
      (7)   Electrical permits applied for or obtained for the sign.
      (8)   Calculations demonstrating that the sign, as it is designed, meets
the construction requirements of this article for dead load and wind pressure.
      (9)   A description of any existing signs that will remain on the site.
      (10)   At the time an application is submitted to the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, for a sign
permit under this article, the applicant shall pay the applicable fee in full
with the fee to be determined in accord with the administrative fee schedule
adopted annually by the Village Board and maintained on file with the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (c)   Basis for granting. In deciding whether or not to grant a sign permit,
the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall determine whether the proposed sign is in compliance with the provisions
of this article; whether the sign is in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, including those related to traffic safety, traffic visibility, sign
setbacks, and structural integrity; and whether other required village approval
(s) has or has not been granted for the sign.
   (d)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The Village Building Inspector shall be responsible for enforcing
the requirements of this article.
      (2)   a.   Should any sign be erected or constructed that fails to meet
all requirements of this article and any applicable building or electrical
code, notwithstanding the fact that the owner thereof was granted a permit with
which to construct it or, in other cases, that no permit was required under
this article, the Building Inspector may provide notice to the owner of the
premises upon which it is located that the sign be rebuilt to standards and
that the owner, or his or her agent, shall have 30 to 90 days in which to do
so.
         b.   The failure to do so shall result in the loss of the sign permit
in cases where a sign permit is required. Signs that are subject to this
subsection (d)(2) shall, if not rebuilt or reconstructed by the owner, be
treated by the village as abandoned or dilapidated signs, subject to removal by
the village in accord with this article.
      (3)   Violations of this article, if uncorrected in accord with the
requirements of the notice provided by the village, shall be subject to
imposition of a forfeiture in the amount of not less than $100 for each day
such a violation continues, with each day constituting a separate violation.
      (4)   a.   Each violation of the requirements of this article pertaining
to permanent signs is deemed by the village to create a public nuisance which
endangers the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the
village.
         b.   Correspondingly, in addition to or as a complete alternative to
pursuing the imposition of a forfeiture for violations of this article, the
village may seek injunctive relief against the continued maintenance of such
signs, requesting of the court that it order removal or authorize the village
to do so at the expense of the owner of the premises on which the offending
sign is located.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-97 MEASUREMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Signable area. The signable area of a building is designated as the
area of the facade of the building up to the roof line which is free of windows
and doors or major architectural detail on which signs may be displayed. In
computing signable area, any facade which faces or abuts a public right-of-way
may be utilized. Calculations may include parapet walls but shall exclude door
and window openings.
   (b)   Measuring sign face. In calculating the area of a sign to determine
whether it meets the requirements of this article, the Clerk shall include the
sign copy and any border or frame surrounding that copy. Supporting posts or
foundations shall be excluded from the area calculation. The area of
irregularly shaped signs or signs containing two or more detached elements
shall be determined by the area of the smallest regular polygon that will
encompass all elements of the sign.
   (c)   Measuring sign height. The sign height shall be the vertical distance
measured from the grade at the base of the sign structure to the highest point
of such sign or sign structure. In the case where a sign is to be located in a
raised planting bed or berm, the grade shall be determined by the average of
the grades measured at the grade of the planting bed or the toes of the slope
at the front and back of the bed or berm.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-98 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   All signs, other than temporary and portable signs, shall comply with
all applicable provisions of state and village building and electrical codes at
all times. Verification of compliance therewith may be required of the sign
owner by the village.
   (b)   All freestanding signs or pole signs shall be self-supporting and
permanently affixed to the real estate on foundations adequate to support their
superstructures.
   (c)   Signs that use glass or transparent panels shall be constructed using
tempered, safety glass only.
   (d)   All signs shall be constructed to withstand wind pressure of not less
than 30 pounds per square foot, and shall be constructed so as to support dead
loads in accord with the building code.
   (e)   Supports and braces shall be integral to the design of a sign. Angle
irons, chains, or wire used for supports or braces shall be hidden from public
view to the extent that this is physically feasible.
   (f)   No sign shall be suspended in such a fashion or manner that will allow
it to swing in an unrestricted manner, whether due to wind or other causes, or
to the extent that swinging may cause damage to the sign superstructure,
supports, or foundation.
   (g)   All signs shall be appropriately maintained so as to present a neat
and clean appearance off of the premises on which they are located.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-99 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   No signs are permitted in the triangle formed by the point at the
corner of an intersection and points 15 feet from the corner along each street.
   (b)   Signs shall not be placed on utility poles, light standards, trees,
utility pedestals, or boxes, or any similar structure.
   (c)   Signs shall not be attached or affixed to, or adhered to or drawn
upon, any public street or sidewalk.
   (d)   Signs shall not resemble, imitate, or approximate the shape, size,
form, or color of railroad or traffic signs, signals, or devices, and shall not
obstruct or interfere with the effectiveness of railroad or traffic signs,
signals, or devices.
   (e)   Color schemes and lettering styles shall be used consistently on all
signage used on a single lot or shopping center.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-100 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts without a permit,
subject to the specified conditions.
   (a)   Temporary freestanding or wall signs on properties or buildings for
sale, lease, or rent not exceeding eight square feet in area on one side or 16
square feet in area on all sides. If not attached to a wall, such signs shall
be set back at least ten feet from a side or rear lot line, shall not be
located in a public right-of-way, and shall be removed within ten days after
the property or building is sold, leased, or rented.
   (b)   Temporary freestanding or wall signs on properties of buildings with
an open house, grand opening, anniversary or special sale, not exceeding 16
square feet on one side, of 32 square feet in area on all sides. Side may be
placed on the premises no earlier than seven days prior to the event in
question and shall be removed no later than at the end of the last day of the
event.
   (c)   As provided in Wis. Stats. § 12.04, election campaign signs are
permitted in residential zoning districts subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   The sign shall not be erected prior to the first day of the
“election campaign period” as defined in state statutes, and shall be removed
within ten days following the election.
      (2)   Election signs shall not exceed 11 square feet in area unless the
sign is affixed to a permanent structure; does not extend beyond the perimeter
of the structure; and does not obstruct a window, door, fire escape,
ventilation shaft, or other area which is required by the Village Building Code
to remain unobstructed.
      (3)   No election campaign sign shall be placed within a public right-of-
way, nor so close to a pedestrian way as to hinder or endanger safe passage.
   (d)   A temporary sign not to exceed eight square feet and shall not be
displayed for more than 30 days in any given 12-month period of time on any
given parcel.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-101 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS WITH A PERMIT.
   The following signs are permitted in all residential zoning districts, with
a permit, subject to the following regulations.
   (a)   Permanent ground sign placed at the entrance to a subdivision or
development, which shall be set back at least ten feet from a street right-of-
way or side or rear lot line. The sign shall not exceed 20 square feet is size
and six feet in height. The subdivider, condominium association, or homeowner’s
association shall be responsible for paying all costs for maintenance of the
sign and associated landscaping. Written agreements shall be on file between
the village and the subdivider, condominium association, and/or homeowners
association as to the maintenance and care of the sign and landscaping.
   (b)   Signs associated with a permitted, accessory, or conditionally allowed
non-residential use. signage shall consist of no more than one monument sign
not to exceed 20 square feet in size and six feet in height, together with one
wall sign not larger than 15 square feet in size.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-102 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS, OTHER THAN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS, WITH A PERMIT.
   The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts, other than
residential districts, with a permit, subject to the following regulations.
   (a)   Awning signs. If an awning sign is used, no other signs may be affixed
or attached to the exterior of the building to which it is joined. The area
covered by awning signs shall not exceed 35% of the building face and awnings
shall be at least seven feet above grade and shall not project outward from the
building by more than seven feet. Internally lit awnings are prohibited, and
lettering shall only be on the valance.
   (b)   Ground and pole signs.
      (1)   Shall not to exceed 30 feet in height above the mean centerline
grade of the street upon which the premises on which they are placed has its
only or principal frontage.
      (2)   Shall meet all setback requirements for the zoning district in
question.
      (3)   Shall not exceed 120 square feet of total display face area, with a
maximum of 60 square feet per side, including borders.
      (4)   No more than one ground of pole sign may be erected on a single
premises.
      (5)   There shall be at least ten feet of clearance between each pole
sign and the grade on which it is situated.
   (c)   Monument signs. Monument signs not to exceed 50 square feet in size
nor to be more than ten feet in height above grade.
   (d)   Changeable copy signs. Electronic message boards or changeable copy
reader boards may be included as part of on-premises ground or monument signs,
subject to the following additional requirements.
      (1)   One changeable copy sign per business to be calculated as part of
the total sign square footage.
      (2)   Segmented messages shall be displayed for not less than on-half
second and for no more than ten seconds.
      (3)   Traveling messages shall be no slower than 16 light columns per
second and no faster than 32 light columns per second.
   (e)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs fastened to, suspended from, or
supported by other structures, and:
      (1)   Shall not exceed seven and one-half square feet in size;
      (2)   Shall not be more than five feet from the building face to which it
is attached or affixed;
      (3)   Shall be located at least ten feet from all side lot lines;
      (4)   Shall not exceed a height of 20 feet above the mean centerline
grade of the street upon which the premises on which they are placed has its
only or principal frontage; and
      (5)   Each projecting sign shall at its lowest point be not less than ten
feet above a sidewalk or 15 feet from the edge of any alley or driveway.
   (f)   Menu boards. Menu boards are not to exceed two per drive-through or
walk-up food establishment.
   (g)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Shall not exceed three times linear frontage plus an additional 25%
of said calculated frontage for corner lots in total size.
      (2)   Shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the mean centerline grade
of the street upon which the premises on which they are placed has its only
principal frontage, provided that on corner lots such signs are not placed on
the front facade of the building, further defined to mean that side of the
building facing the front yard of the lot on which it is situated.
   (h)   Window signs. Window signs shall be calculated as part of the total
sign square footage.
   (i)   Roof signs.
      (1)   Shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof of the structure
to which they are attached or affixed.
      (2)   Shall meet all height restrictions for the zoning district in which
the site is located.
      (3)   Shall be calculated as part of the total sign square footage for
any one premises.
   (j)   Joint business signs and industrial business signs. No more than one
joint business sign shall be allowed for the exterior of each building, facing
the street or a highway in the event that there are three or more tenants in a
building. As a complete alternative, separate individual business signs for
each tenant or occupant of a building which has a separate and direct exit to
and front the exterior building may be allowed listing the business by name.
   (k)   Ground poles or roof signs on premises. No more than one ground, pole,
or roof sign for each business on a given premises.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-103 ILLUMINATION RESTRICTIONS, ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (a)   The following restrictions on illumination of signs shall apply in all
zoning districts.
      (1)   No illuminated sign shall cause any reflection or glare upon any
public street, highway, or sidewalk, nor create glare on adjoining private
properties.
      (2)   Exposed lighting media such as light bulbs and tubes are
prohibited. All external sources of illumination must be hidden from view by
the planting of vegetation, such as shrubbery, or by being camouflaged by non-
vegetative means, subject to the approval of the village.
   (b)   No sign which is allowed to be erected or constructed without a permit
shall be illuminated without the express permission of the village.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-104 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE SIGNS.
   (a)   In addition to the temporary signage allowed under §§
13-1-94 and
13-1-100, the following temporary and portable signage may be allowed subject
to review and approval of a sign permit.
      (1)   Flag signs or banners may be approved on a temporary basis in any
district by the Plan Commission following a review and recommendation by the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
Temporary sign permits shall not be granted for a period of more than three
weeks, and each business or organization shall be limited to two temporary sign
permits for a flag sign or banner in any 12-month period. Banners displayed
above a street shall not exceed 120 square feet in area on each side. Banners
attached to a building or other structure shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area.
      (2)   A temporary sign other than a flag or banner may be allowed in any
district for up to 30 days in any given calendar year provided the sign is not
permanently mounted or affixed to the ground. The sign area shall not exceed 32
square feet on one side or 64 square feet on all sides, and shall be at least
ten feet from a property line (except in the Downtown-Mixed Use District). Only
one temporary sign may be located on a lot. Each business or organization shall
be limited to two temporary sign permits in any 12-month period.
      (3)   a.   To be placed on premises for no more than seven consecutive
days at one time and for not more than three such periods per calendar year.
         b.   Maximum size to be limited to 25 square feet per sign with
double-faced signs each qualifying for this maximum size.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-105 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   No billboards shall be allowed at any place in the village. This prohibition
does not include off-premises signs, however, advertising businesses in the
village.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-106 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited:
   (a)   Animated signs, signs containing beacons or signs containing moving
lights, and other than revolving signs;
   (b)   Flashing signs; and
   (c)   Signs containing or consisting of bare reflecting bulbs.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-107 APPEALS AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall be authorized to hear appeals from
decisions of the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, or Building Inspector. Appeals may be taken within 30 days of
issuance of written notice of a determination of the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or Building Inspector.
   (b)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Applicability and procedure. Following submittal of a complete
special exception application, the Plan Commission may grant a special
exception to one or more requirements in this article. The application
requirements and procedure for, and other requirements associated with, a
special exception shall be the same as those for a conditional use permit under
§
13-1-125, except as follows.
         a.   The application for special exception shall also include
materials required to obtain a sign permit under §
13-1-96.
         b.   The criteria for consideration of a special exception shall be
those in subsection (b)(2) below.
      (2)   Criteria. No special exception shall be granted unless the Plan
Commission finds that the sign(s) authorized thereby, as limited by an
enforceable condition, will meet all of the following criteria.
         a.   Consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter and this
section.
         b.   Not negatively affecting the reasonable use and development of
nearby properties of the community.
         c.   Compatible with existing signage on and visible from the subject
site and not significantly exceeding the height, area, or quantity of such
existing signage.
         d.   Proportional with the scale of the subject site and the building
(s) and use(s) on the subject site to which the sign relates or advertises.
         e.   Not hazardous, harmful, or otherwise adverse to the natural
environment and aesthetic value of the site, nearby properties, and the
community.
         f.   Not negatively affect the safe and efficient installation, use,
and maintenance of public facilities serving the area, including, but not
limited to, roadways, sidewalks and paths, and utilities.
         g.   Supported by evidence that normally applicable requirements do
not provide for sufficient visibility for the proposed signage or use(s) it
advertises, such as a highway visibility study for freestanding signage that
exceeds normally applicable height or area requirements.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-108 THROUGH 13-1-109 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE I: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
§ 13-1-110 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish regulations for signal received
antennas and wireless telecommunication facilities.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-111 SIGNAL RECEIVING ANTENNAS.
   (a)   Purpose. This section regulating the placement of signal receiving
antennas is adopted to:
      (1)   Provide uniform regulation of all signal receiving antenna devices;
      (2)   Secure placement of such antennas in an aesthetically sensitive
manner while allowing users reasonable reception of signals;
      (3)   Protect the public from injury from antennas that are inadequately
mounted, unduly susceptible to wind pressure, improperly installed and wired,
or are placed on structures insufficiently designed or constructed to safely
support the antenna; and
      (4)   Provide for placement of such antennas in locations that preserve
access to rear property areas by firefighting apparatus and emergency
personnel.
   (b)   Permit required. No owner shall, within the village, build, construct,
use, or place any type of signal receiving antenna until a permit shall have
first been obtained from the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      OWNER. The holder of record of an estate in possession in fee simple, or
for life, in land or real property, or a vendee of record under a land contract
for the sale of an estate in possession in fee simple, or for life, but does
not include the vendor under a land contract. A tenant in common or joint
tenant shall be considered such owner to the extent of his or her interest. The
personal representative of at least one owner shall be considered an OWNER.
      SIGNAL RECEIVING ANTENNA. Any apparatus capable of receiving
communications from a transmitter or a transmitter relay located in a planetary
orbit. This definition includes all types of signal receiving antennas,
including, without limitation, parabolic antennas, home earth stations,
satellite television disks, UHF and VHF television antennas, and AM, FM, ham,
and short-wave radio antennas, regardless of the method of mounting.
   (d)   Application. Application for a signal receiving antenna permit shall
be made in writing to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate. With such application, there shall be submitted a fee
as set forth in the village’s annual fee schedule and a sufficient set of
mounting plans and specifications, including a general plot plan showing the
location of the proposed signal receiving antenna with respect to streets, lot
lines and buildings. If such application meets all requirements of this
Section, the application shall be approved.
   (e)   Installation standards. Signal receiving antennas installed in any
zoning district within the village shall comply with the following provisions.
      (1)   Setbacks.
         a.   Any signal receiving antenna and its mounting post shall be
located a minimum of ten feet from any property line.
         b.   Subject to the provisions herein, signal receiving antennas shall
only be located in the rear yard of any lot. If reasonable reception of signals
is not possible with a rear yard placement due to the physical characteristics
of the lot and area, the signal receiving antenna shall be placed in the side
yard of the lot. In the event that reasonable reception of signals is not
possible by locating the signal receiving antenna on the rear or side yard of
the property, such antenna may be placed in the front yard or on the roof of
structures on the property. For corner lots, a side yard is only a yard that
does not face a street.
         c.   If a side yard, front yard, or roof mounting is requested, the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall determine where reasonable reception is possible, based on evidence
provided by the person seeking to erect or construct the antenna.
      (2)   Mounting. Signal receiving antennas attached to the wall or roof of
any principal or accessory structure shall be permitted only if the structure
is properly constructed to carry all imposed loading, and complies with
applicable state and local building code requirements. The Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, may require
engineering calculations.
      (3)   Diameter. The diameter of the signal receiving antenna shall not
exceed 15 feet in diameter, except for systems used to provide community
antenna television services.
      (4)   Height.
         a.   A ground-mounted signal receiving antenna, including any platform
or structure upon which said antenna is mounted or affixed, may not exceed 18
feet in height, as measured from the ground to the highest point of the dish.
         b.   A roof-mounted antenna may not exceed 15 feet in height above the
surrounding roof line as measured from the lowest point of the existing roof
line.
      (5)   Wind pressure. All signal receiving antennas shall be permanently
mounted in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications for installation.
All such installations shall meet a minimum wind load design velocity of 80
mph.
      (6)   Electrical installations. Electrical installations in connection
with signal receiving antennas, including grounding of the system, shall be in
accordance with the National Electrical Safety Code, State Electrical Code, and
the instructions of the manufacturer. In cases of conflict, the stricter
requirements shall govern. All cable used to conduct current or signals from
the signal receiving antenna to the receivers shall be installed underground
unless installation site conditions preclude underground. If a signal receiving
antenna is to be used by two or more residential property owners, all
interconnecting electrical connections, cables, and conduits must also be
buried. The location of all such underground lines, cables, and conduits shall
be shown on the application for a permit. All signal receiving antennas shall
be grounded against direct lightning strikes.
      (7)   Temporary placement. No portable or trailer-mounted signal
receiving antenna shall be allowed, except for temporary installation for on-
site testing and demonstration purposes for periods not exceeding five days.
However, such trial placement shall be in accordance with all provisions of
this section. Failure to comply shall result in a citation being issued for
violation of this section. Any person making such temporary placement shall
first give written notice to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, of the date when such placement shall begin
and end.
      (8)   Advertising. No form of advertising or identification, sign, or
mural is allowed on the signal receiving antenna other than the customary
manufacturer’s identification plates.
      (9)   Interference with broadcasting. Signal receiving antennas shall be
filtered and/or shielded so as to prevent the emission or reflection of an
electromagnetic radiation that would cause any harmful interference with the
radio and/or television broadcasting, or reception, on adjacent properties. In
the event that harmful interference is caused subsequent to its installation,
the owner of the signal receiving antenna shall promptly take steps to
eliminate the harmful interference in accordance with the Federal
Communications Commission regulations.
      (10)   Compliance with federal regulations. The installation and use of
every signal receiving antenna shall be in conformity with the Federal Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., and
regulations adopted thereunder.
      (11)   Aesthetic considerations. Signal receiving antennas shall be
located and designed to reasonably reduce visual impact from surrounding
properties at street level.
   (f)   Enforcement.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct, use, build, or locate any signal
receiving antenna in violation of any provisions of this section. In the event
of any violation, the Village Board or any property owner who would be
specifically damaged by such violation may institute appropriate action or
proceedings to enjoin a violation of this section.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to the general
penalty under the village’s forfeiture schedule.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-112 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (a)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose and intent of this section is to strike a balance
between the state and federal interest concerning the construction,
modification, and siting of mobile service facilities and mobile service
support structures for use in providing personal wireless services, and the
village’s interest in:
         a.   Protecting residential areas and land uses from the potential
adverse impacts of towers and antennas;
         b.   Minimizing the total number of towers throughout the community;
         c.   Encouraging the joint use of new and existing tower sites as a
primary siting option rather than construction of additional single-use towers;
and
         d.   Avoiding potential damage to adjacent properties from tower
failure through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
      (2)   This section establishes regulations for:
         a.   The siting and construction of any new mobile service support
structure and facilities;
         b.   With regard to a Class 1 collocation, the substantial
modification of an existing support structure and mobile service facilities;
and
         c.   With regard to a Class 2collocation, collocation on an existing
support structure which does not require the substantial modification of an
existing support structure and mobile service facilities.
      (3)   The regulations contained in this section shall be interpreted to
comply with Wis. Stats. § 66.0404, and any amendments thereto. Any provisions
within the code that conflicts with the village’s authority under Wis. Stats. §
66.0404, shall not be applied to new mobile service support structure and
facilities, Class 1 collocation, or Class 2 collocation.
   (b)   Authority. The village has the specific authority under Wis. Stats. §§
61.35, 62.23, and 66.0404, to adopt and enforce this section.
   (c)   Definitions. Unless expressly indicated, all terms in this section
shall have the meanings established in Wis. Stats. § 66.0404(1).
   (d)   Siting and construction of any new mobile service support structure
and facilities.
      (1)   A village zoning permit is required for the siting and construction
of any new mobile service structure and facilities. The siting and construction
of any new mobile service support structure and facilities is a conditional use
in the village obtainable with this permit through the conditional use permit
process.
      (2)   An application for a permit to engage in the siting or construction
of a new mobile service support structure and facilities shall be submitted in
writing to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall submit a copy of the application to the Building Inspectors
for review and recommendation on all structural requirements. The application
shall contain the following information.
         a.   The name and business address of, and the contact individuals
for, the applicant.
         b.   The location of the proposed or affected support structure.
         c.   The location of the proposed mobile service facility.
         d.   If the application is the substantially modify an existing
support structure, a construction plan which describes the proposed
modifications to the support structure and the equipment and network
components, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling, and related equipment associated with the proposed
modifications.
         e.   If the application is to construct a new mobile service support
structure, a construction plan which describes the proposed mobile service
support structure and the equipment and network components, including antennas,
transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and related
equipment to be placed on or around the new mobile service support structure.
         f.   If the application is to construct a new mobile service support
structure, an explanation as to why the applicant chose the proposed location
and why the applicant did not choose collocation, including a sworn statement
from an individual who has responsibility over the placement of the mobile
service support structure attesting that collocation within the applicant’s
search ring would not result in the same mobile service functionality,
coverage, and capacity; is technically infeasible; or is economically
burdensome to the mobile service provider.
         g.   If the application is to construct a new mobile service support
structure, the application shall demonstrate that the structure will be located
a distance from any residential dwelling structure that is equal to the height
of the mobile service support structure, plus ten feet measured from the base
of the support structure to the nearest portion of the residential dwelling
structure (including roof overhangs, porches, and patios). Alternatively, the
applicant may demonstrate through submittal of an engineering certification
showing that the mobile service support structure is designed to collapse
within a smaller distance than the height of the structure.
         h.   The fee for the permit shall be as established in the village fee
schedule (but may not exceed $3,000, per Wis. Stats. § 66.0404(4)(d)).
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall inform the applicant within ten days of receipt of the
application if the application is not complete. Notification shall be in
writing and shall specify in detail the information that was incomplete.
      (4)   Within 90 days of receipt of a completed application, the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, shall issue
a written decision to approve or deny the application. If the application is
denied, the written decision shall set forth the reasons for denial based upon
substantial evidence. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, and the applicant may agree in writing to an
extension of the 90-day period.
      (5)   Decisions to deny an application shall be supported by substantial
evidence. Such evidence shall be included in the written decision.
      (6)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0404(2)(f), the decision of the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or of the
Village Board under subsection (d)(4) above, is a final decision appealable to
circuit court.
   (e)   Class 1 collocation.
      (1)   A village zoning permit is required for a Class 1 collocation. A
Class 1 collocation is a conditional use in the village obtainable with this
permit through the conditional use permit process of this chapter.
      (2)   An application for a permit to engage in a Class I collocation
shall be completed by the applicant and submitted in writing to the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate. The
application must contain, at a minimum, the following information.
         a.   The name and business address of, and the contact individuals
for, the applicant.
         b.   The location of the proposed or affected support structure.
         c.   The location of the proposed mobile service facility.
         d.   If the application is to substantially modify an existing support
structure, a construction plan which describes the proposed modifications to
the support structure and the equipment and network components, including
antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and
related equipment associated with the proposed modifications.
         e.   The fee for the permit shall be as established in the village fee
schedule (but may not exceed $3,000, per Wis. Stats. § 66.0404(4)(d)).
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall inform the applicant within ten days of receipt of the
application if the application is not complete. Notification shall be in
writing and shall specify in detail the information that was incomplete.
      (4)   Within 90 days of receipt of a completed application, the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, shall issue
a written decision to approve or deny the application. If the application is
denied, the written decision shall set forth the reasons for denial based upon
substantial evidence. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, and the applicant may agree in writing to an
extension of the 90-day period.
      (5)   Decisions to deny an application shall be supported by substantial
evidence. Such evidence shall be included in the written decision.
      (6)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0404 (2)(f), the decision of the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or
of the Village Board under subsection (d)(4) above, is a final decision
appealable to circuit court.
   (f)   Class 2 collocation.
      (1)   A village zoning permit is required for a Class 2 collocation. A
Class 2 collocation is a permitted use in the village, but still requires the
issues of a village building and zoning permit.
      (2)   An application for a permit to engage in Class 2 collocation shall
be completed by the application and submitted in writing to the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate. The
application must contain, at a minimum, the following information.
         a.   The name and business address of, and the contact individuals
for, the applicant.
         b.   The location of the proposed or affected support structure.
         c.   The location of the proposed mobile service facility.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall inform the applicant within five days of receiving the
application if the applicant is not complete. Notification shall be in writing
and shall specify in detail the information that was incomplete.
      (4)   Within 45 days of receipt of a completed application, the Building
Inspector shall issue a written decision to approve or deny the application,
except that the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, and the applicant may agree in writing to an extension.
      (5)   Decisions to deny an application shall be supported by substantial
evidence. Such evidence shall be included in the written decision.
      (6)   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0404(2)(f), the decision of the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or of the
Village Board under subsection (d)(4) above, is a final decision appealable to
circuit court.
   (g)   Abandonment.
      (1)   If a mobile service support structure shall cease to be used for a
period exceeding one year and a day, it shall be considered abandoned. The
owner or operator of said structure shall remove the structure and related
improvements upon at no cost to the village within 90 days thereafter, and
return the site to an erosion and dust-free condition. Prior to the issuance of
any building or zoning permits to construct the support structure, a
performance bond shall be provided to guarantee that a support structure that
has ceased being used for mobile service facilities purposes is removed. The
bond amount shall be the lesser of $20,000 or an amount based on a written
estimate of a person qualified to remove such structures. Responsibility to
remove the abandoned structure may be assigned to the owner of the property
upon which the structure is located of any other mobile service provider with
facilities on the structure upon notice to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, that such assigned have been made,
and accepted and filing of a new bond for the new responsible party.
Notwithstanding the forgoing, the owner of property upon which the structure
sits may be held jointly and severally liable by the village for the obligation
and cost of removal of any abandoned structure and in the event the structure
is not removed in accordance with this section, upon 60 days’ notice, the
village may cause the structure to be removed and assess the cost thereof to
the property under Wis. Stats. § 66.0627.
   (h)   Structural requirements. Every mobile service support structure and
mobile service facility shall be designed and constructed so as to comply with
the requirements of
Title 15 of the village’s code of ordinances, and International Building Code
(IBC) 3108, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the Building
Inspector concludes that a structure of facility fails to comply with such
codes in effect at the time of construction, and constitutes a danger to
persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the
structure or facility, the owner shall have 30 days or such time as determined
by the Building Inspector to bring such tower into compliance with said codes.
Failure to bring such structure or facility into compliance within said 30 days
or such time as determined by the Building Inspector shall constitute grounds
for the removal of the structure or facility at the owner’s expense.
   (i)   Tower and building design. All new mobile service support structures
and facilities shall be designed as follows.
      (1)   Mobile service facilities and mobile service support structures
shall be constructed out of metal or other nonflammable material.
      (2)   Mobile service facilities and mobile service support structures
shall ensure that sufficient anti-climbing measures have been incorporated into
the facility, as needed, to reduce potential for trespass and injury.
      (3)   Emergency back-up generators shall be completely enclosed on all
sides. Other efforts to mitigate noise from such generators may be required.
      (4)   All new mobile service support structures shall be structurally and
electrically designed to accommodate at least three separate antenna arrays,
unless credible evidence is presented that said construction is economically
and technologically unfeasible. Multiple-user mobile service support structures
shall be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas and to accept
antennas mounted at varying heights. Parking areas, access roads, and utility
easements shall be shared by site users.
      (5)   Mobile service support structures are not subject to the height
restrictions established for any district in which they are located.
   (j)   Location. A good faith effort in achieving collocation shall be
required of the applicant and host entity, subject to existing collocation
contracts, and all of the following measures shall be implemented for new
mobile service support structures and Class 1 collocations.
      (1)   No mobile service support structure shall be installed closer than
one-fourth mile from another mobile service support structure, measured from
the base of the existing structure to the base of the proposed structure,
unless the applicant provides a sworn statement from an individual who has
responsibility over the placement of the mobile service structure attesting
that collocation within the applicant’s search ring:
         a.   Would not result in the same mobile service functionality,
coverage, and capacity;
         b.   Is technically infeasible; or
         c.   Is economically burdensome to the mobile service provider.
      (2)   Mobile service support structure(s) may be located on a lot in a
residential district, only if said lot is greater than two acres in area and
the principal use is other than residential.
      (3)   Mobile service support structures towers, guy wires, appurtenant
equipment, and buildings shall comply with the yard and setback requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located.
      (4)   a.   Mobile service support structures shall be located no closer
to any residential dwelling structure than a distance that is equal to the
height of the mobile service support structure and attached facilities
(including possible future collected facilities) plus ten feet measured from
the base of the support structure to the nearest portion of the residential
dwelling structure (including roof overhangs, porches and patios) unless the
applicant demonstrates through submittal of an engineering certification
showing that the mobile service support structure is designed to collapse
within a smaller distance than the height of the structure and attached
facilities (including possible future collected facilities).
         b.   Unless the Building Inspector can demonstrate by substantial
evidence that the engineering certification is flawed, the mobile service
support structure shall be located no closer to any residential dwelling
structure than zone of collapse established by the engineering certification,
plus ten feet.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-113 THROUGH 13-1-119 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE J: ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 13-1-120 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish responsibilities for the
administration of this chapter, and the enforcement procedures and penalties
for noncompliance with the provisions of this zoning ordinance. The purpose of
this article is to establish procedural requirements for zoning text
amendments, zoning map amendments, and various development approvals under this
chapter, including, but not limited to, conditional use permits, variances, and
site plan review and approval.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-121 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Board shall designate a village official to serve as the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, and as the
administrative enforcement officer for the provisions of this chapter. The duty
of the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall be to interpret and administer this chapter and to issue,
after on-site inspection, all permits required by this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
further:
   (a)   Maintain records of all permits issued, inspections made, work
approved, and other official actions;
   (b)   Record the lowest floor elevations of all structures erected, moved,
altered, or improved in the floodland districts;
   (c)   Establish that all necessary permits that are required for floodland
uses by state and federal law have been secured;
   (d)   Inspect all structures, lands, and waters as often as necessary to
assure compliance with this chapter;
   (e)   Investigate all complaints made relating to the location of structures
and the use of structures, lands, and waters, give notice of all violations of
this chapter to the owner, resident, agent, or occupant of the premises and
report uncorrected violations to the Village Attorney in a manner specified;
   (f)   Prohibit the use or erection of any structure, land, or water until he
or she has inspected and approved such use or erection; and
   (g)   Request assistance and cooperation from the Police Department, Village
Clerk, Building Inspector, and Village Attorney as deemed necessary.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-122 ROLE OF SPECIFIC VILLAGE OFFICIALS IN ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Plan Commission. The Plan Commission, together with its other
statutory duties, shall make reports and recommendations relating to the plan
and development of the village to the Village Board, other public officials,
and other interested organizations and citizens. In general, the Plan
Commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform
its functions and promote municipal planning. Under this chapter, its functions
are primarily recommendatory to the Village Board pursuant to guidelines set
forth in this chapter as to various matters, and always being mindful of the
intent and purposes of this chapter. Recommendations shall be in writing. A
recording thereof in the Commission’s minutes shall constitute the required
written recommendation. The Commission may, in arriving at its recommendation,
on occasion of its own volition, conduct its own public hearing.
   (b)   Village Board. The Village Board, the governing body of the village,
subject to recommendations by the Plan Commission and the holding of public
hearings by said Board, has ultimate authority to grant permitted conditional
uses, make changes and amendments in zoning districts, the zoning map, and
supplementary floodland zoning map, and to amend the text of this chapter. The
Village Board may delegate to the Plan Commission the responsibility to hold
some or all public hearings as required under this chapter.
   (c)   Zoning Board of Appeals. A Zoning Board of Appeals is established to
provide an appeal procedure for persons who deem themselves aggrieved by
decisions of administrative officers in the enforcement of this chapter. The
Board of Appeals shall have the following powers.
      (1)   Errors. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or Building
Inspector.
      (2)   Variances. To hear and grant appeals for variances as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit and purposes of this chapter shall be
observed and the public safety, welfare, and justice secured. Use variances
shall not be granted.
      (3)   Interpretations. To hear and decide application for interpretations
of the zoning regulations and the boundaries of the zoning districts after the
Plan Commission has made a review and recommendation.
      (4)   Substitutions. To hear and grant applications for substitution of
more restrictive non-conforming uses for existing non-conforming uses provided
no structural alterations are to be made, and the Plan Commission has made a
review and recommendation. Whenever the Board permits such a substitution, the
use may not thereafter be changed without application.
      (5)   Unclassified uses. To hear and grant applications for unclassified
and unspecified uses provided that such uses are similar in character to the
principal uses permitted in the district and the Plan Commission has made a
review and recommendation.
      (6)   Temporary uses. To hear and grant applications for temporary uses
in any district provided that such uses are of a temporary nature, do not
involve the erection of a substantial structure, and are compatible with the
neighboring uses, and the Plan Commission has made a review and recommendation.
The permit shall be temporary, revocable, subject to any condition required by
the Board of Zoning Appeals, and shall be issued for a period not to exceed 12
months. Compliance with all other provisions of this chapter shall be required.
      (7)   Permits. The Board may reverse, affirm wholly or partly, modify the
requirements appealed from, and may issue or direct the issue of a permit.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-123 REVIEW AND APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (a)   Review procedures vary depending on the type of request; however,
procedures within this article generally adhere to three common elements:
      (1)   Submittal of a complete application, including fee payment and
appropriate supplemental information;
      (2)   Review by appropriate village staff and/or officials; and
      (3)   Action by appropriate village official(s) or staff to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the request.
   (b)   The table below summarizes the procedures, agencies, and personnel
involved in various procedures authorized by this chapter. The table is
provided as a convenience for the village and general public. Where there are
conflicts between the text of this chapter and the table below, the text shall
prevail.
Review and Approval Activities and Bodies
Application Process Staff Plan Commission Village Board Zoning Board of Appeals
Review and Approval Activities and Bodies
Application      Staff          Plan Commission Village Board Zoning Board of
Process                                                       Appeals
Appeal           RR                                           PH, RE, A
Conditional use  RR             PH, RR          RE, A
permit
Floodplain map   Refer to state
amendment        DNR/FEMA
Interpretation   RE, A                                        Appeal only
Planned
Development      PM*, RR        PH, RR          RE, A
District
Sign permit      RE, IP
Site plan        RR             RE, A
Variance         RR                                           PH, RE, A
Violations and   RE, A
penalties
Zoning map       PM*, RR        RR              RR, RE, A
amendment
Zoning ordinance RR             RR              PH, RE, A
amendment
Zoning permit    RE, IP
Notes to Table:
RE = Review and Evaluate
IP = Issues Permit
RR = Review and Recommend
PH = Public Hearing
PM = Public Meeting
A = Final Action
*If determined to be necessary by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, or designee.
This table is not exhaustive. Some procedures may not be covered within this
table including Land Division approvals required under
Title 14, Subdivision Regulations.
 
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-124 ZONING ORDINANCE (TEXT OR MAP) AMENDMENT.
   (a)   Authority. Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general
welfare, or good zoning practice requires, the Village Board may, by ordinance,
change the district boundaries established by this chapter and the zoning map
incorporated herein or amend, change, or supplement the text of the regulations
established by this chapter or amendments thereto. Such change or amendment
shall be subject to the review and recommendation of the Plan Commission with
final action by the Village Board.
   (b)   Initiation of changes or amendments. The Village Board, the Plan
Commission, the Zoning Board of Appeals, and other government bodies and any
private petitioners may apply for an amendment to the text of this chapter or
to the district boundaries hereby established or by amendments hereto in the
accompanying zoning map made a part of this chapter.
   (c)   Procedures for changes or amendments.
      (1)   Application. Petitions for any change to the district boundaries
and map(s) or amendments to the text regulations shall be addressed to the
Village Board and shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, describe the premises to be rezoned
or the portions of text of regulations to be amended, list the reasons
justifying the petition, specify the proposed use, if applicable, and have
attached the following, if petition be for change of district boundaries.
         a.   Plot plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet showing
the area proposed to be rezoned, its location, its dimensions, the location and
classification of adjacent zoning districts, and the location and existing use
of all properties within 300 feet of the area proposed to be rezoned.
         b.   Owners’ names and addresses of all properties lying within 100
feet of the area proposed to be rezoned.
         c.   The fee for a rezoning amendment shall be as set forth in the
village’s annual fee schedule.
         d.   Together with additional information as may be required by the
Plan Commission or Village Board.
      (2)   Review standards. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, or designee, and other Village Departments
shall review the complete application and evaluate whether the proposed
amendment.
         a.   Advances the purposes of this chapter, as outlined in §
13-1-4.
         b.   Advances the purposes of the general article in which the
amendment is proposed to be located.
         c.   Advances the purposes of the specific section in which the
amendment is proposed to be located.
         d.   Is in harmony with the Village Comprehensive Plan.
         e.   Maintains the desired overall consistency of land uses, land use
intensities, and land use impacts within the pertinent zoning districts.
         f.   Addresses any of the following factors that may not be addressed
in the current zoning text:
            1.   A change in the land market, or other factors which require a
new form of development, a new type of land use, or a new procedure to meet
said change(s). New methods of development or types of infrastructure;
            2.   Changing governmental finances to meet the needs of the
government in terms of providing and affording public services; and
            3.   Any other factor deemed appropriate by the village.
      (3)   Public hearing required.
         a.   Within 90 days of filing of a complete application, the Village
Board shall hold a public hearing to consider the proposed zoning change or
amendment, giving notice of the time, place, and the change or amendment
proposed by publication of a Class 2 notice, under Wis. Stats. Chapter 985. At
least ten days prior, written notice shall also be given to the Clerk of any
municipality within 1,000 feet of any land to be affected by the proposed
change or amendment.
         b.   A public hearing may be held more than 90 days from filing of the
complete application when requested by the applicant in writing.
         c.   The Village Board may delegate to the Plan Commission the
responsibility to hold public hearings as required under this section.
      (4)   Plan Commission review and recommendation.
         a.   The Village Board or the Village Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall cause the petition to be
forwarded to the Plan Commission for its consideration and recommendation.
         b.   Within 60 days of the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall
make its recommendations regarding the application. Said recommendation may
include a formal finding of facts developed and approved by the Plan
Commission, and whether the public benefits outweigh any and all potential
adverse impacts of the proposed amendment.
         c.   The Plan Commission shall review all proposed amendments to the
text and zoning map(s) within the corporate limits, and shall recommend in
writing that the petition be granted as requested, modified, or denied. A
recording of the recommendation in the Plan Commission’s official minutes shall
constitute the required written recommendation. In arriving at its
recommendation, the Commission may on occasion, of its own volition, conduct
its own public hearing on proposed amendment(s).
         d.   If the Plan Commission fails to make a recommendation within 60
days of the public hearing, the Village Board may hold a public hearing within
30 days after the expiration of said 60-day period. Failure to receive said
recommendation from the Plan Commission shall not invalidate the proceedings or
actions of the Village Board. If a public hearing is necessary, the Village
Board shall provide notice per the requirements of under subsection (c)(3)
above.
      (5)   Village Board review and action.
         a.   Following the required public hearing and after consideration of
the Plan Commission’s recommendation, the Village Board shall review the
proposed amendment. The Village Board may request further information and/or
additional reports from the Plan Commission, Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, (or designee), the applicant, and/or
any other entity as it sees fit.
         b.   The Village Board may refer the matter back to the Plan
Commission. In such cases, the Village Board shall specify the issue(s) to be
addressed in further detail.
         c.   The Village Board may take final action (by ordinance) on the
application at the time of its initial meeting or may continue the proceedings
by its own decision or the applicant’s request. The Village Board may approve
the amendment as originally proposed, may approve the proposed amendment with
modifications, or may deny approval of the proposed amendment. The Plan
Commission’s recommendations may only be overruled by three-fourths of the full
Board membership.
   (d)   Effect of denial. No application which has been denied (either wholly
or in part) shall be resubmitted for a period of 365 days from the date of said
order of denial, except on grounds of new evidence or material changes of
circumstances.
   (e)   Protest.
      (1)   In the event of a protest against amendment to the zoning map, duly
signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more, either of the areas of
the land included in such proposed change, or by the owners of 20% or more of
the land immediately adjacent extending 100 feet therefrom, or by the owners of
20% or more of the land directly opposite thereto extending 100 feet from the
street frontage of such opposite land, such changes or amendments shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of the full
Village Board membership.
      (2)   In the event of protest against amendment to the text of the
regulations of this chapter, duly signed and acknowledged by 20% of the number
of persons casting ballots in the last general election, it shall cause a
three-fourths vote of the full Village Board membership to adopt such
amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-125 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide regulations which
govern the procedure and requirements for the review and approval, or denial,
or proposed conditional uses.
   (b)   Applicability. There are certain uses which, because of their unique
characteristics, may have a high potential to create undesirable impacts on
nearby properties, public facilities, or the community as a whole. In these
cases, specific standards, regulations, or conditions may be established.
   (c)   Initiation of request for conditional use. Any person, firm,
corporation, or organization having a freehold interest or a possessory
interest entitled to exclusive possession, or a contractual interest which may
become a freehold interest, or an exclusive possessory interest, and which is
specifically enforceable in the land for which a conditional use is sought may
file an application to use such land for one or more of the conditional uses
provided for in this chapter in the zoning district in which such land is
located.
   (d)   Application for conditional use.
      (1)   An application for a conditional use shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the village. A non-refundable application fee, as set forth in
the annual village fee schedule, shall be paid at the time of application. The
application shall be accompanied by a plan showing the location, size, and
shape of the lot(s) involved and of any proposed structures, the existing and
proposed use of each structure and lot, and shall include a statement in
writing by the applicant and adequate evidence showing that the proposed
conditional use shall conform to the standards set forth in § 13-1-125(f)
below.
      (2)   The Plan Commission or Village Board may require such other
information as may be necessary to determine and provide for an enforcement of
this chapter, including a plan showing contours and soil types; highwater mark
and groundwater conditions; bedrock, vegetative cover, specifications for areas
of proposed filling, grading, and lagooning; location of buildings, parking
areas, traffic access, driveways, walkways, open spaces and landscaping; and
plans of buildings, sewage disposal facilities, water supply systems, and
arrangements of operations. When considering a development proposal or land use
change, the village may require additional studies, benefits-costs analysis, or
other information, at its discretion and potentially at the developer’s
expense. Such studies or information may be needed to analyze factors, such as
land use compatibility, potential impacts (for example, transportation, fiscal,
environment, public health, and property values), engineering studies or place,
and whether other standards are sufficiently met.
   (e)   Public hearing required.
      (1)   All requests for conditional uses shall be referred to the Plan
Commission or the Plan Commission can, on its own motion, apply conditional
uses when applications for rezoning come before it. Nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the Village Board, on its own motion, from referring the request
for conditional use to the Plan Commission. Upon receipt of the application and
statement referred to in § 13-1-125(d) above, the Plan Commission shall hold a
public hearing on each application for a conditional use at such time and place
as shall be established by such Commission. The hearing shall be conducted, and
a record of the proceedings shall be preserved in such a manner and according
to such procedures as the Plan Commission shall, by rule, prescribe from time
to time.
      (2)   Notice of the time, place, and purpose of such hearing shall be
given by publication of a Class 2 notice under the state statutes in the
official village newspaper. Notice of the time, place, and purpose of such
public hearing shall also be sent to the applicant, the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, members of the Village
Board and Plan Commission, and the owners of record as listed in the office of
the Village Assessor who are owners of property in whole or in part situated
within 100 feet of the boundaries of the properties affected. Said notice to be
sent at least ten days prior to the date of such public hearing.
   (f)   Conditional use permit review standards. In determining whether to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny a request for issuance of a
conditional use permit, the Plan Commission and the Village Board shall
consider all relevant factors specific in other sections of this chapter,
including standards for specific requirements for certain land uses and
activities. If an applicant for a conditional use permit meets or agrees to
meet all of the requirements and conditions specific in this chapter or imposed
by the village, the village shall grant the conditional use permit. The
applicant must demonstrate by substantial evidence that the applicant and all
requirements and conditions established by the village are or shall be
satisfied. No application for a conditional use shall be recommended for
approval by the Plan Commission or granted by the Village Board unless such
Commission and Board shall find all of the following conditions are present.
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare.
      (2)   That the uses, values, and enjoyment of other property in the
neighborhood for purposes already permitted shall be in no foreseeable manner
substantially impaired or diminished by the establishment, maintenance, or
operation of the conditional use and the proposed use is compatible with the
use of adjacent land.
      (3)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses,
permitted in the district.
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary
site improvements have been or are being provided. The village will consider
the availability and potential impacts to public services, especially sanitary
sewer, water lines, storm sewers, fire protection, parks, transportation
networks, and schools, and ensure that any needed services be available or that
such services could be made available safely and efficiently.
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      (6)   The conditional use shall conform to all applicable regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      (7)   The proposed use does not violate flood plain regulations governing
the site.
      (8)   When applying the above standards to any new construction of a
building or an addition to an existing building, the Plan Commission and Board
shall bear in mind the statement of purpose for the zoning district such that
the proposed building or addition at its location does not defeat the purposes
and objective of the zoning district.
      (9)   In addition to passing upon a conditional use permit, the Plan
Commission and Board shall also evaluate the effect of the proposed use upon:
         a.   The maintenance of safe and healthful conditions;
         b.   The prevention and control of water pollution including
sedimentation;
         c.   Existing topographic and drainage features and vegetative cover
on the site;
         d.   The location of the site with respect to floodplains and
floodways of rivers and streams;
         e.   The erosion potential of the site based upon degree and direction
of slope, soil type, and vegetative cover;
         f.   The location of the site with respect to existing or future
access roads;
         g.   The need of the proposed use for a shoreland location;
         h.   Its compatibility with uses on adjacent land;
         i.   The amount of liquid wastes to be generated, and the adequacy of
the proposed disposal systems; and
         j.   Potential negative impacts on environmentally sensitive areas or
other critical community services (for example, schools, nursing care, and
governmental) are prevented or mitigated. New development, reconstruction, and
infrastructure projects should consider and apply resource conservation
techniques and best practices that reduce energy demand and promote air and
water quality improvements.
      (10)   The use is in harmony with the Village Comprehensive Plan; and
      (11)   The conditional use is located in an area that will be adequately
served by, and will not impose an undue burden on, any of the improvements,
facilities, utilities, or services provided by public or private agencies
serving the subject property.
   (g)   Plan Commission review and recommendation.
      (1)   Following public hearing, the Plan Commission shall review the
proposed conditional use permit request with the review standards in § 13-1-125
(f).
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall report its advisory recommendations to
the Village Board within 30 days after a matter has been referred to. If such
action has not been reported by the Plan Commission within 30 days, the Village
Board can act without such recommendation.
   (h)   Village Board review and action.
      (1)   Within 60 days after the filing of a conditional use permit
application, the Village Board shall make its findings and take final action on
the application.
      (2)   The Village Board may, by resolution, authorize the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, to issue a
conditional use permit after review, public hearing, and advisory
recommendation from the Plan Commission, provided that such conditional use and
involved structure(s) are found to be in accordance with the purpose and intent
of this zoning code and evaluation of the standards for conditional uses as
outlined in § 13-1-125(f). Prior to the granting of a conditional use, the
Commission shall make findings based upon the evidence presented that the
standards herein prescribed are being complied with.
      (3)   Any development within 500 feet of the existing or proposed rights-
of-way of freeways, expressways, and within one-half mile of their existing or
proposed interchange or turning lane rights-of-way shall be specifically
reviewed by the highway agency that has jurisdiction over the traffic way. The
Plan Commission shall request such review and await the highway agency’s
recommendation for a period not to exceed 20 days before taking final action.
      (4)   Conditions, as further described in § 13-1-125(j) may be required
by the Village Board upon its finding that these are necessary to fulfill the
purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (5)   Compliance with all other provisions of this chapter, such as lot
width and area, yards, height, parking, loading, traffic, highway access, and
performance standards shall be required of all conditional uses.
   (i)   Action on a conditional use permit.
      (1)   The Village Board may take the final action on the application at
the time of the public hearing or may continue the proceedings at its
discretion or at the applicant’s request. The Board may approve the conditional
use as originally proposed, may approve the proposed conditional use with
modifications, or may deny approval of the proposed conditional use. The
requirements and conditions described must be reasonable, and to the extent
practicable, measurable, and may include conditions such as the permit’s
duration or renewal. The applicant and all requirements and conditions
established by the village relating to the conditional use are or shall be
satisfied, both of which must be supported by substantial evidence.
      (2)   The village’s approval of the proposed conditional use shall be
considered the approval of a unique request, and shall not be construed as
precedent for any other proposed conditional use.
      (3)   When an advisory recommendation or determination of denial of a
conditional use application is made, the Plan Commission/Village Board shall
furnish the applicant, in writing when so requested, those standards that are
not met and enumerate reasons the Commission/Board has used in determining that
each standard was not met. Per Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(de), if the village
denies a conditional use permit application, the applicant may appeal the
decision to the circuit court under the procedures contained in statute.
      (4)   No application which has been denied (either wholly or in part)
shall be resubmitted for a period of six months from the date of denial, except
on grounds of new evidence or proof of change of factors.
   (j)   Conditions and guarantees.
      (1)   Conditions. Prior to the granting of any conditional use, the
Village Board may stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance, and operation of the
conditional use as deemed necessary to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community, and to secure compliance with the standards
and requirements specified in § 13-1-125(f) above. In all cases in which
conditional uses are granted, the Board shall require such evidence and
guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in
connection therewith are being and will be complied with. Any condition imposed
must be related to the purpose of this chapter and be based on substantial
evidence. The requirements and conditions must be reasonable and, to the extent
practicable, measurable, and may include conditions such as the permit’s
duration, transfer, or renewal. The applicant must demonstrate that the
application and all requirements and conditions established by the village
related to the conditional use are or shall be satisfied, both of which must be
supported by substantial evidence. Such conditions may include specifications
for, without limitation because of specific enumeration:
         a.   Landscaping;
         b.   Type of construction;
         c.   Construction commencement and completion dates;
         d.   Sureties;
         e.   Lighting;
         f.   Fencing;
         g.   Operational control;
         h.   Hours of operation;
         i.   Traffic circulation;
         j.   Deed restrictions;
         k.   Access restrictions;
         l.   Setbacks and yards;
         m.   Type of shore cover;
         n.   Specified sewage disposal and water supply systems;
         o.   Planting screens;
         p.   Piers and docks;
         q.   Increased parking;
         r.   Duration of conditional use; or
         s.   Any other requirements necessary to fulfill the purpose and
intent of this chapter.
      (2)   Site review. In making its recommendation, the Plan Commission
shall evaluate each application and may request assistance from any source
which can provide technical assistance. The Commission or Board may review the
site, existing and proposed structures, architectural plans, neighboring uses,
parking areas, driveway locations, highway access, traffic generation and
circulation, drainage, sewerage, and water systems, and the proposed operation/
use.
      (3)   Alteration of conditional use. No alteration of a conditional use
shall be permitted unless approved by the Village Board after recommendation
from the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Architectural treatment. Proposed architectural treatment will be
in general harmony with surrounding uses and the landscape. To this end, the
Village Board may require the use of certain general types of exterior
construction materials and/or architectural treatment.
      (5)   Sloped sites; unsuitable soils. Where slopes exceed 6% and/or where
a use is proposed to be located on areas indicated as having soils which are
unsuitable or marginal for development, on-site soil tests and/or construction
plans shall be provided which clearly indicate that the soil conditions are
adequate to accommodate the development contemplated and/or that any inherent
soil condition or slope problems will be overcome by special construction
techniques. Such special construction might include, among other techniques,
terracing, retaining walls, oversized foundations and footings, drain tile, and
the like.
      (6)   Conditional uses to comply with other requirements. Conditional
uses shall comply with all other provisions of this chapter such as lot width
and area, yards, height, parking, and loading.
   (k)   Validity of conditional use permit.
      (1)   Conditional uses authorized by Village Board resolution shall be
established for a period of time to a time certain or until a future happening
or event at which the same shall terminate.
      (2)   Where the Village Board has approved or conditionally approved an
application for a conditional use, such approval shall become null and void
within 12 months of the date of the Board’s action unless the use is commenced,
construction is underway or the current owner possesses a valid building permit
under which construction is commenced within six months of the date of
issuance, and which shall not be renewed unless construction has commenced and
is being diligently prosecuted. Approximately 45 days prior to the automatic
revocation of such permit, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall notify the holder by certified mail of such
revocation. The Board may extend such permit for a period of 90 days for
justifiable cause, if application is made to the Village Board at least 30 days
before the expiration of said permit.
      (3)   Once granted, a conditional use permit shall remain in effect as
long as the conditions upon which the permit was issued are followed, but the
village may impose conditions such as the permit’s duration, transfer, or
renewal, in addition to any other conditions specified in the zoning ordinance
or by the Village Plan Commission or Village Board.
      (4)   Any and all conditional uses which have been discontinued for a
period exceeding 365 days shall have their conditional use invalidated
automatically. The burden of proof shall be on the property owner to
conclusively demonstrate that the subject conditional use was operational
during this period.
   (l)   Termination. Conditional use(s), when replaced by permitted use(s),
shall terminate. In such case(s), the reestablishment of any previous
conditional use(s), or establishment of a new conditional use(s) shall require
review, public hearing and approval by the Village Board in accordance with
Article D.
   (m)   Substitution. Conditional uses authorized by the Village Board shall
not be subject to substitution with other conditional uses, whether similar
type or not, without Village Board approval and the procedures required in
Article J.
   (n)   Complaints regarding conditional uses. The Village Board shall retain
continuing jurisdiction over all conditional uses for the purpose of resolving
complaints against all previously approved conditional uses. Such authority
shall be in addition to the enforcement authority of the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, to order the removal or
discontinuance of any unauthorized alterations of an approved conditional use,
and the elimination, removal, or discontinuance of any violation of a condition
imposed prior to or after approval or violation of any other provision of this
code. Upon written complaint by any citizen or official and after seeking an
advisory recommendation from the Plan Commission, the Village Board shall
initially determine whether said complaint indicates a reasonable probability
that the subject conditional use is in violation of either one or more of the
standards set forth in § 13-1-125(f), a condition of approval or other
requirement imposed hereunder. Upon reaching a positive initial determination,
a hearing shall be held upon notice as provided in § 13-1-125(e). Any person
may appear at such hearing and testify in person or represented by an agent or
attorney. The Village Board may, in order to bring the subject conditional use
into compliance with the standards set forth in § 13-1-125(f) or conditions
previously imposed by the Village Board, modify existing conditions upon such
use and impose additional reasonable conditions upon the subject conditional
use. In the event that no reasonable modification of such conditional use can
be made in order to assure that standards in § 13-1-125(f) will be met, the
Village Board may revoke the subject conditional approval and direct the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, and the
Village Attorney to seek elimination of the subject use. Following any such
hearing, the decision of the Village Board shall be furnished to the current
owner of the conditional use in writing stating the reasons therefor. The basis
for permit termination or revocation must be supported by substantial evidence.
   (o)   Conditional use; sexually oriented businesses.
      (1)   Findings and purpose. The Village Board finds that due to their
nature, the existence of sexually oriented businesses in the village have
serious objectionable operational characteristics, such as an effect upon
property values, local commerce, and crime. Due to the deleterious combined
effect on adjacent areas when such uses are concentrated, or when located in
close proximity to premises which serve alcoholic beverages, fermented malt
beverages, or wine for consumption on site, such uses should not be permitted
to be located in close proximity to each other or to premises serving such
beverages. Special regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these
adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the
surrounding neighborhood. Such regulations are contained in these standards.
These standards are designed to protect the village’s retail trade, maintain
property values, prevent crime, control the spread of disease, and, in general
protect and preserve the quality of the village’s neighborhoods, commercial
districts, and the quality of village life.
      (2)   Standards. A sexually oriented business is permitted only as a
conditional use and only in the B-H District, provided that:
         a.   Such use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any residence
or single/multi-family residential district designated within this chapter
(this includes the R-R, R-L, R-M, R-MF, MHTH, R-T, P-C Districts);
         b.   Such use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any public or
private school, daycare premises, nursery, church, park, or any building used
even upon occasion as such;
         c.   Such use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of another adult
bookstore, adult entertainment establishment, or adult motion picture theater;
         d.   Such use shall not be located within 250 feet of any
establishment that serves or sells or disperses any alcohol beverages for
consumption on-site;
         e.   Such use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any premises
which is licensed by the village or any other governmental body to sell, serve,
or dispense alcoholic beverages, fermented malt beverages, or wine for
consumption on site; and
         f.   Such use shall not be located on or in premises which are
licensed by the village to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages,
fermented malt beverages, or wine for consumption on site.
      (3)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to the
following establishments: theaters, performing arts centers, civic centers, and
dinner theaters where live dance, ballet, music and dramatic performances of
serious artistic merit are offered on a regular basis and in which the
predominant business or attraction is not of the type or nature offered by a
sexually oriented business as defined in §
13-1-140.
      (4)   Miscellaneous.
         a.   The distances provided in this section shall be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening buildings, from the
nearest point of the lot upon which the proposed use is to be located, to the
nearest point of the zoning district boundary line or the lot from which the
proposed use is to be separated.
         b.   Violation of these provisions is declared to be a public nuisance
per se.
         c.   Nothing in this section is intended to authorize, legalize, or
permit the establishment, operation of maintenance of any business, building,
or use which violates any village ordinance, county ordinance, or statute of
the state regarding public nuisances, sexual conduct, lewdness, or obscene or
harmful matter, or the exhibition or public display thereof.
   (p)   Conditional use; specific livestock operations.
      (1)   Generally. This section describes the procedural requirements
relating to the conditional use permit review of a new or expanded livestock
operations that will have 500 or more animal units, as required under §
13-1-29(b).
      (2)   Initiation. The owner of the subject property may submit an
application for the establishment of a livestock operation.
      (3)   Application and review procedure. The general steps outlined below
shall be used in the review of an application for a conditional use permit for
a new or expanded livestock operation.
         a.   Pre-submittal meeting. Before submitting an application, the
applicant or the applicant’s agent may meet with the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, to review applicable
regulations and procedures and the proposed livestock operation.
         b.   Submittal of application materials. The applicant shall submit
four copies of the completed application form and worksheets prescribed by Wis.
Admin. Code, § ATCP 51.30, to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, along with the application fee as may be
established by the Village Board in the village’s annual fee schedule.
Submission of documentation relied upon for the nutrient management checklist
may be required if necessary to substantiate the nutrient management checklist.
         c.   Determination of completeness. Within 45 days of submittal, the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall determine whether the application is complete or incomplete. If the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
determines that the application is incomplete, he or she shall send the
applicant a written notice that describes the reason or reasons why the
application is incomplete. If the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, determines that the application is complete,
he or she shall send a written notice to the applicant within 14 days of such
determination.
         d.   Notice to adjacent property owners. Within 14 days of a
determination of completeness, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, shall mail a completed notice as in Wis.
Admin. Code, Chapter ATCP 51 to the recorded owner of each parcel of land that
is adjacent to the proposed livestock facility. Such notices shall be mailed by
first class mail. Failure to comply with the notice requirement under this
subsection (p) does not invalidate the approval of a proposed livestock
facility, or create a cause of action by a property owned against the village
or any village committee, Village Board, or employee.
         e.   Public hearing. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, may schedule a public hearing on the
application within 90 days after issuing notice of a complete application.
         f.   Standards. The standards for issuing a permit are as follows.
            1.   The state livestock facility siting standards adopted under
Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter ATCP 51. These standards are incorporated by
reference, without reproducing them in full.
            2.   Setbacks authorized by this chapter.
         g.   Criteria for issuance of a permit.
            1.   A permit shall be issued if the application for the proposed
livestock facility contains sufficient credible information to show, in the
absence of clear and convincing information to the contrary, that the proposed
livestock facility meets the standards specific in this chapter.
            2.   A permit may be denied if any of the following apply.
               i.   The application, on its face, fails to meet the standards
for approval.
               ii.   The village finds, based on other clear and convincing
information in the record, that the proposed livestock facility does not comply
with applicable standards in this ordinance.
               iii.   Other grounds authorized by Wis. Stats. § 93.90, that
warrant disapproving the proposed livestock facility.
            3.   No conditions may be imposed on a permit other than the
standards provided in the ordinance.
         h.   Record of decision.
            1.   The Village Board shall issue its decision in writing. Its
decision shall be based on written findings of fact supported by evidence in
the record.
            2.   In the event that a permit is approved, the applicant shall
receive a duplicate copy of the approved application, marked “approved.” The
duplicate copy must include worksheets, maps, and other documents (other than
engineering specifications) included in the application.
         i.   Notice to the Department. The Village Clerk as required by § ATCP
51.36 Wis. Adm. Code within 30 days of the Village decision on the application
shall do all of the following.
            1.   Give the Department of Agriculture, Trade, and Consumer
Protection written notice of the town/county decision.
            2.   File with the Department a copy of the final application
granted or denied, if the village has granted or denied an application under
this chapter. (The copy shall include all of the worksheets, maps, and other
attachments included in the application, except that it is not required to
include the engineering design specifications.)
            3.   If the village has withdrawn a local approval under this
chapter, file with the Department a copy of the village final notice or order
withdrawing the local approval.
         j.   Expiration of permit. A permit remains in effect regardless of
the amount of time that elapses before the livestock operator exercises the
full authority granted under the permit, and regardless of whether the
livestock operator exercises the full authority granted by the approval.
However, the village may treat a permit as lapsed and withdraw the permit if
the permit holder fails to do all of the following within two years after
issuance of the permit.
            1.   Begin populating the new or expanded livestock facility.
            2.   Begin constructing all of the new or expanded livestock
housing or waste storage structures proposed in the permit application.
         k.   Permit modifications. The operator may make reasonable changes
that maintain compliance with the standards in this chapter, and the village
shall not withhold authorization for those changes.
         l.   Compliance monitoring. The village shall monitor compliance with
the ordinance as follows.
            1.   Upon notice to the livestock facility owner the village may
request the right of the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, to personally view the permitted facility at a
reasonable time and date to ensure that all commitments of the application as
approved are being complied with.
            2.   If the livestock facility owner refuses the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, the right
to view the permitted facility, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, may request the assistance of the Sheriff or
a deputy Sheriff to obtain an inspection warrant for the circuit court to
inspect the permitted facility for the purpose of protection of the public
health and safety under Wis. Stats. § 66.0119.
            3.   If a permitted facility is found not to be in compliance with
the commitments made in the approved application, the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, shall issue a written
notice to the livestock facility owner stating the conditions of noncompliance
and directing that compliance of the commitments of the approved application
and be complied with in a reasonable amount of time stated in this written
notice.
            4.   If noncompliance of the permit conditions as described in the
written notice given by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, continue past the stated reasonable time to comply,
the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
may take further action as provided in this chapter, including, but not limited
to, issuance of a citation or seeking of injunctive relief.
            5.   If the livestock facility owner disputes that the conditions
of the permit have not been complied with, the livestock facility owner may
request a hearing in writing within five days of receipt of the notice of
noncompliance. The Village Board shall schedule a hearing within five days to
determine if the conditions of the permit have been complied with or whether
noncompliance of the commitments of the approved application and local approval
exists.
         m.   Terms of the permit. A permit and the privileges granted by a
permit issued under this chapter is conditioned on the livestock operator’s
compliance with the standards in this chapter, and with commitments made in the
application for a permit. The village is authorized to suspect a permit or seek
other redress provided in this chapter for noncompliance. Pursuant to Wis.
Admin. Code, § ATCP 51.34(4)(b) the village may withdraw an approval if any of
the following apply.
            1.   The operator materially misrepresented relevant information in
the application for local approval.
            2.   The operator, without authorization from the village, fails to
honor commitments made in the application for approval.
            3.   The livestock facility fails to comply with applicable
standards.
         n.   Transferability.
            1.   A permit and the privileges granted by the permit run with the
land, and remain in effect, despite a change in ownership of the livestock
facility, as long as the new operator does not violate the terms of the local
approval. An applicant may record with the register of deeds, at the
applicant’s expense, the duplicate copy of the approved application.
            2.   Upon change of ownership of the livestock facility, the new
owner of the facility shall file information with the Village Clerk providing
pertinent information, including, but not limited to, such information as the
name and address of the new owner and date of transfer of ownership.
         o.   Appeal of decision on livestock facilities conditional use
permit.
            1.   In addition to other appeal rights provided by law, Wis.
Stats. § 93.90(5), provides that any “aggrieved person” may request review by
the Livestock Facility Siting Review Board and any decision by the Village
Board in connection with a permit application. An “aggrieved person” may
challenge the decision on the grounds that the Village Board incorrectly
applied the standards under this article or violated Wis. Stats. § 93.30.
            2.   An AGGRIEVED PERSON under this section, as defined in Wis.
Stats. § 93.90(5), means a person who applied to the village for approval of a
livestock siting or expansion, a person who lives within two miles of the
livestock facility that is proposed to be sited or expanded, or a person who
owns land within two miles of a livestock facility that is proposed to be sited
or expanded.
            3.   Any appeal to the State Livestock Facility Siting Review Board
shall comply with Wis. Stats. § 93.90 and administrative rules of said Board.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-126 ZONING PERMIT.
   (a)   Zoning permit required. No new structure, new use of land, water, or
air or change in the use of land, water, or air shall hereafter be permitted
and no structure or part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without a
zoning permit.
   (b)   Applications. Applications for a zoning permit shall be made to the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, and
shall include the following where pertinent and necessary for proper review.
      (1)   Names and addresses of the applicant, owner of the site, architect,
professional engineer, and contractor.
      (2)   Description of the subject site by lot, block, and recorded
subdivision or by metes and bounds; address of the subject site; type of
structure; existing and proposed operation or use of the structure or site;
number of employees; and the zoning district within which the subject site
lies.
      (3)   Plat of survey prepared by a land surveyor registered in the state
or other map drawn to scale and showing such of the following as may be
required by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate: the location, boundaries, dimensions, uses, and size of the
following: subject site; existing and proposed structures; existing and
proposed easements, streets, and other public ways; public utilities; off-
street parking, loading areas, and driveways; existing highway access
restrictions; high water; channel, floodway, and floodplain boundaries; and
existing and proposed street, side, and rear yards.
      (4)   Additional information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or the Plan
Commission and Village Board (if involved).
   (c)   Action.
      (1)   A zoning permit shall be granted or denied in writing by the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, within 30
days of application, and the applicant shall post such permit in a conspicuous
place at the site.
      (2)   The permit shall expire within six months unless substantial work
has commenced or within 18 months after the issuance of the permit if the
structure for which a permit is issued is not substantially completed, in which
case of expiration, the application shall reapply for a zoning permit before
commencing work on the structure.
      (3)   Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-127 SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   The purpose of promoting compatible development, stability of property
values, ensuring the attractiveness and functional utility of the community as
a place to live and work, preserving the character and quality of the building
environment by retaining the integrity of those areas which has a discernible
character, protecting certain public investments in the area, and raising the
level of community expectations for the quality of its environment.
   (a)   Site plan review and approval. All applications for Zoning or Building
Permits for any construction, reconstruction, expansion, or conversion, except
for one- and two-family residences in residential districts, shall require site
plan approval by the Plan Commission in accordance with the requirements of
this section. This review will include: existing and proposed structures,
neighboring uses, utilization of landscaping and open space, parking areas,
driveway locations, loading and unloading, highway access, traffic generation
and circulation, drainage, sewerage, and water systems, and the proposed
operation of the use.
   (b)   Application. The applicant for a zoning permit shall also submit a
site plan and sufficient plans and specifications of proposed buildings,
machinery, and operations to enable the Plan Commission or its expert
consultants to determine whether the proposed application meets all the
requirements applicable thereto in this chapter. This includes the following
materials.
      (1)   Written use description. Description of the intended use described
in reasonable detail, which may include the following: zoning, land use plan
designation, current land uses, proposed land uses, projected use, proposed
development, operations, operations considerations, building materials, other
information.
      (2)   Location map. A map of the subject property showing all lands for
which the use is proposed, and all other lands within 200 feet of the
boundaries of the subject property.
      (3)   Scale site plan. A site plan of the subject property as proposed
for development drawn to scale.
      (4)   Detailed landscape plan. At the same scale as the site plan,
showing the location of all required setbacks and landscaping areas, proposed
landscaping, and any proposed screening.
      (5)   Grading plan. At the same scale as the site plan showing existing
and proposed grades, including retaining walls and related devices, and erosion
control measures.
      (6)   Elevation drawings. Side views of proposed buildings, structures,
or proposed remodeling of existing buildings showing finished exterior
treatment shall also be submitted, with adequate labels provided to clearly
depict exterior materials, texture, color, and overall appearance.
      (7)   Stormwater management plans. At the same scale as the site plan,
prepare stormwater runoff, and erosion control plans consistent with village
ordinances.
   (c)   Administration. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall make a preliminary review of the application
and plans and refer them, along with a report of his findings, to the Plan
Commission within ten days. The Plan Commission shall review the application
and may refer the application and plans to any expert consultants selected by
the Village Board to advise whether the application and plans meet all the
requirements applicable thereto in this chapter. Within 30 days of its receipt
of the application, the Commission shall authorize the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, to issue or refuse a
zoning permit.
   (d)   Requirements. In acting on any site plan, the Plan Commission shall
consider the following.
      (1)   The appropriateness of the site plan and buildings in relation to
the physical character of the site and the usage of adjoining land areas.
      (2)   The layout of the site with regard to entrances and exits to public
streets; the arrangement and improvement of interior roadways; the location,
adequacy, and improvement of areas for parking and for loading and unloading
and shall, in this connection, satisfy itself that the traffic pattern
generated by the proposed construction or use shall be developed in a manner
consistent with the safety of residents and the community, and the applicant
shall so design the construction or use as to minimize any traffic hazard
created thereby.
      (3)   The adequacy of the proposed water supply, drainage facilities, and
sanitary and waste disposal.
      (4)   The landscaping and appearance of the completed site. The Plan
Commission may require that those portions of all front, rear, and side yards
not used for off-street parking shall be attractively planted with trees,
shrubs, plants, or grass lawns and that the site be effectively screened so as
not to impair the value of adjacent properties nor impair the intent or
purposes of this section.
      (5)   The architectural design, landscaping, control, or lighting, and
general site development within the proposed use will result in an attractive
and harmonious area compatible with and not adversely affecting the aesthetics,
enjoyment, or property values of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (6)   Potential negative impacts on environmentally sensitive areas and
other critical community services (for example, schools, nursing care, and
governmental) are prevented or mitigated. New development, reconstruction, and
infrastructure projects should consider and apply resource conservation
techniques and best practices that reduce energy demand and promote air and
water quality improvements.
   (e)   Effect on municipal services. Before granting any site approval, the
Plan Commission may, besides obtaining advice from consultants, secure such
advice as may be deemed necessary from the Village Engineer or other municipal
officials, with special attention to the effect of such approval upon existing
municipal services and utilities. Should additional facilities be needed, the
Plan Commission shall forward its recommendations to the Village Board and
shall not issue final approval until the Village Board has entered into an
agreement with the applicant regarding the development of such facilities.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-128 VARIANCES.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide regulations which
enable the village to hear and decide requests for permitted variation from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest; where
owing to special factors, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that
the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done; as provided for by Wis. Stats. § 62.23
(7)(e)(7). For the purposes of this section, UNNECESSARY HARDSHIP shall be
defined as an unusual or extreme decrease in the adaptability of the property
to the uses permitted by the zoning district which is caused by facts, such as
rough terrain or good soil conditions, uniquely applicable to the particular
piece of property as distinguished from those applicable to most or all
property in the same zoning district.
   (b)   Initiation of request. A request for a variance may be made when an
aggrieved party can submit proof that strict adherence to the provisions of
this zoning code would cause him or her undue hardship or create conditions
causing greater harmful effects than the initial condition. A variance granted
to a non-conforming use brings that use into conformance with the district and
zoning requirements.
   (c)   Application for variance. The application for a variance shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, with a fee as established in the village’s annual fee schedule
plus publication and report costs. Applications may be made by the owner or
lessee of the structure, land or water to be affected. The application shall
contain the following information.
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and all abutting and opposite
property owners of record.
      (2)   Statement that the applicant is the owner or the authorized agent
of the owner of the property.
      (3)   Address and description of the property.
      (4)   A site plan showing an accurate depiction of the property.
      (5)   Additional information required by the Plan Commission, Village
Engineer, Board of Zoning Appeals, or Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate.
      (6)   Application fee as set forth in the village’s annual fee schedule.
   (d)   Public hearing of variance application. Within 60 days of filing of a
complete application, the Board of Appeals shall conduct at least one public
hearing on the proposed variance. Notice of such hearing shall be given not
more than 30 days and not less than ten days before the hearing in one or more
of the newspapers in general circulation in the village, and shall give due
notice to the parties in interest, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, and the Plan Commission. At the hearing the
appellant or applicant may appear in person, by agent, or by attorney. The
Board shall thereafter reach its decision within 30 days after the final
hearing and shall transmit a written copy of its decision to the appellant or
applicant, Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, Plan Commission, and Village Board.
   (e)   Action of the Board of Appeals. For the Board to grant a variance, it
must find that:
      (1)   Denial of variation may result in hardship to the property owner
due to physiographical consideration. There must be exceptional, extraordinary,
or unusual circumstances or conditions applying to the lot or parcel,
structure, use, or intended use that do not apply generally to other properties
or uses in the same district, and the granting of the variance would not be of
so general or recurrent nature as to suggest that the zoning code should be
changed;
      (2)   The conditions upon which a petition for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which variance is being sought and that such
variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of substantial
property rights possessed by other properties in the same district and same
vicinity;
      (3)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
to increase the value or income potential of the property;
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the other property or improvements in the neighborhood
in which the property is located; and
      (5)   The proposed variance will not undermine the spirit and general and
specific purposes of the zoning code.
   (f)   Conditions. The Board of Appeals may impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to
comply with the standards established in this section.
   (g)   Effect of denial. No application for a variance which has been denied
(either wholly or in part) shall be resubmitted for a period of 365 days from
the date of said order of denial, except on grounds of new evidence or material
change of circumstances found valid by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, or designee.
   (h)   Review by court of record. Any person or persons aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Appeals may present to a court of record a petition,
duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, and specifying the
grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court within
30 days after the filing of the decision in the offices of the Board of
Appeals.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-129 APPEALS TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (a)   Scope of appeals. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within reasonable 30 days of the alleged grievance or judgment in
question by filing with the officer(s) from whom the appeal is taken and with
the Board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof,
together with payment of a filing fee as may be established by the Village
Board. The officer(s) from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Board of Appeals all papers constituting the record of appeals upon which
the action appeals from was taken.
   (b)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all legal proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the
appeal is taken certified to the Board of Appeals that, by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause immediate
peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (c)   Hearing on appeals. Within 60 days after the filing of a complete
application the Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for a public
hearing, cause notice thereof to be published in the official newspaper not
less than seven days prior thereto, cause notice to be given to the appellant
or applicant and the administrative officer(s) appealed from by regular mail or
by personal service not less than five days prior to the date of hearing. In
every case involving a variance, notice shall also be mailed not less than five
days prior to the hearing of the fee owners of records of all land within 100
feet of any part of the subject building or premises involved in the appeal.
   (d)   Decision of the Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Timeframe. The Board of Appeals shall decide all appeals and
applications within 30 days after the public hearing and shall transmit a
signed copy of the Board’s decision to the appellant or applicant and the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
      (2)   Conditions. Conditions may be placed upon any zoning permit ordered
or authorized by this Board.
      (3)   Validity. Variances, substitutions or use permits granted by the
Board shall expire within six months unless substantial work has commenced
pursuant to such grant.
   (e)   Effect of denial. No application for an appeal which has been denied
(either wholly or in part) shall be resubmitted for a period of 365 days from
the date of said order of denial, except on grounds of new evidence or material
change of circumstances found valid by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, or designee.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-130 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Violations. It shall be unlawful to use or improve any structure or
land, or to use water or air in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter. In case of any violation, the Village Board, the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, the Plan Commission, or
any property owner who would be specifically damaged by such violation may
cause appropriate action or proceeding to be instituted to enjoin a violation
of this chapter or cause a structure to be vacated or removed.
   (b)   Remedial action. Whenever an order of the Zoning Administrator, Clerk,
and highest elected official, as appropriate, has not been complied with within
30 days after written notice has been mailed to the owner, resident agent, or
occupant of the premises, the Village Board, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk,
and highest elected official, as appropriate, or the Village Attorney may
institute appropriate legal action or proceedings.
   (c)   Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with
the provisions of this chapter or any order of the Zoning Administrator, Clerk,
and highest elected official, as appropriate, issued in accordance with this
chapter, or resists enforcement shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
forfeiture and such additional penalties as provided for in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§§ 13-1-131 THROUGH 13-1-139 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE K: DEFINITIONS
§ 13-1-140 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall be used,
unless a different definition is specifically provided for a section. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the
plural number; and the plural number includes the singular number. The word
SHALL is mandatory and not permissive.
   ABUTTING. Have a common property line or district line.
   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. A use or detached structure subordinate to the
principal use of a structure, parcel of land, or water, and located on the same
lot or parcel serving a purpose incidental to the principal use or the
principal structure.
   ACRE, NET. The actual land devoted to the land use, excluding public
streets, public lands, or unusable lands, and school sites contained within
43,560 square feet.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment having as a predominant portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, and other periodicals, or video cassettes,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES (as defined herein) or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (as defined herein).
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having as a predominant
portion of its business live acts, demonstrations, dances, or exhibitions which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES (as defined herein) or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (as defined herein).
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building which is significantly or
substantially used for presenting motion picture films, video cassettes, cable
television, or any other such visual media, which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES (as defined herein) or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS
(as defined herein).
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Any agricultural activity or use conducted for the purpose
of producing an income or livelihood such as: crop or forage production,
keeping livestock, beekeeping, nursery, sod, or Christmas tree production,
floriculture, aquaculture, fur farming, forest management, enrolling in a
federal agricultural commodity payment program or a federal or state
agricultural land conservation payment program, or any other activity or use
permitted under Wisconsin State Legislature Chapter 91, subchapter 1, § 91.01
(2), “Farmland Preservation,” or identified by rule of the Wisconsin DATCP.
   ALLEY. A public way not more than 21 feet wide which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family structure which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, must always be included for
each apartment.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A public street or highway used or intended to be used
primarily for large volume or heavy through traffic. ARTERIAL STREETS shall
include freeways and expressways as well as arterial streets, highways, and
parkways.
   A ZONES. Areas of potential flooding shown on the village’s “Flood Insurance
Rate Map” which would be inundated by the regional flood as defined herein.
These zones may be numbered as AO, A1 to A99, or be unnumbered A ZONES. The A
ZONES may or may not be reflective of flood profiles, depending on the
availability of data for a given area.
   BASEMENT. The portion of any structure located partly below the average
adjoining lot grade which is not designed or used primarily for year-around
living accommodations. Space partly below grade which is designed and finished
as habitable space is not defined as BASEMENT space.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of lodging that provides four or
fewer rooms for rent for more than ten nights in a 12-month period, is the
owner’s personal residence, is occupied by the owner at the time of rental, and
in which the only meal served to guests is breakfast.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public parks or other recognized lines of demarcation.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals or
lodging are regularly furnished by prearrangement for compensation for three or
more persons not members of a family, but not exceeding 12 persons and not open
to transient customers.
   BAILABLE LOT AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery, or materials. When a BUILDING is divided into separate
parts by unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part shall be
deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, HEIGHTS OF. The vertical distance from the average curb level in
front of the lot or the finished grade at the building line, whichever is
higher, to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, to the deck line of
a mansard roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a gambrel, hip,
or pitch roof.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the lot line at a distance
parallel to it, regulated by the yard requirements set up in this code.
   BUSINESS. An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
labor, and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold, or where
services are offered.
   CAMPING GROUND. A parcel of land used or intended to be used, let, or
rented, or occupancy by campers or for occupancy by or of trailers, tents, or
movable or temporary dwellings, rooms, or sleeping quarters of any kind.
   CAMPING UNIT. Any portable device, no more than 400 square feet in area,
used as a temporary shelter including, but not limited to, a camping trailer,
motor home, bus, van, pick-up truck, or tent, that is fully licensed if
required, and ready for highway use.
   CHANNEL. The floodlands normally occupied by a stream of water under average
annual high-water flow conditions while confined within generally well-
established banks.
   COMMUNITY LIVING ARRANGEMENT. The following facilities licensed or operated
or permitted under the authority of the state statutes child welfare agencies
under Wis. Stats. § 48.60, group foster homes for children under Wis. Stats. §
48.02(7m) and community-based residential facilities under Wis. Stats. § 50.01,
but does not include daycare centers, nursing homes, general hospitals, special
hospitals, prisons, and jails. The establishment of a community living
arrangement shall be in conformance with applicable sections of the state
statutes, including Wis. Stats. §§ 46.03(22), 69.97(15), 62.23(7)(i), and 62.23
(7a), and amendments thereto, and also the Wisconsin Administrative Code.
   CONDITIONAL USES. Uses of a special nature as to make impractical their
predetermination as a principal use in a district.
   CONSERVATION STANDARDS. Guidelines and specifications for soil and water
conservation practices and management enumerated in the technical guide,
prepared by the USDA Soil Conservation Service for Barron and Polk Counties,
adopted by the County Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisors, and
containing suitable alternatives for the use and treatment of land based upon
its capabilities from which the landowner selects that alternative which best
meets his or her needs in developing his or her soil and water conservation.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ARTERIAL STREET. The condition in which the right of
owners or occupants of abutting land or other persons to access, light, air, or
view in connection with an arterial street is fully or partially controlled by
public authority.
   CORNER LOT. On corner lots, the setback shall be measured from the street
right-of-way line on which the lot fronts. The setback from the side street
shall be equal to 75% of the setback required on residences fronting on the
side street but the side yard setback shall in no case restrict the buildable
width to less than 30 feet. Said CORNER LOTS shall be consisting of a parcel of
property abutting on two or more streets at their intersection, provided that
the interior angle of such intersection is less than 135 degrees.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, construction of or additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, other structures, or accessory uses, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or
disposition of materials.
   DISTRICT, BASIC. A part or parts of the village for which the regulations of
this chapter governing the use and location of land and building are uniform.
   DISTRICT, OVERLAY. Overlay districts, also referred to herein as regulatory
areas, provide for the possibility of superimposing certain additional
requirements upon a basic zoning district without disturbing the requirements
of the basic district. In the instance of conflicting requirements, the more
strict of the conflicting requirements shall apply.
   DWELLING. A building designed or used exclusively as a residence or sleeping
place, but does not include boarding or lodging houses, motels, hotels, tents,
cabins, or mobile homes.
   DWELLING, EFFICIENCY. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room with
no separate sleeping rooms.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not to
exceed the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building containing two separate dwelling
(or living) units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling,
which are arranged, designed, used, or intended for use exclusively as living
quarters for one family.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF HYDRAULIC ENCROACHMENT. The effect of any encroachment into
the floodway is to be computed by assuming an equal degree of hydraulic
encroachment on the opposite side of a river or stream for a significant
hydraulic reach, in order to compute the effect of the encroachment upon
hydraulic conveyance. This computation assures that the property owners up,
down, or across the river or stream will have the same rights of hydraulic
encroachment.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services provided by public and private utilities,
necessary for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal
structure. These services include underground, surface or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, water, sanitary sewerage, stormwater drainage, and
communication systems and accessories thereto, such as poles, towers, wires,
mains, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water
storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, pumps, lift stations, and hydrants, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons immediately related by blood, marriage, or
adoption and living as a single housekeeping unit in one dwelling unit shall
constitute a FAMILY. A FAMILY may include in addition thereto two but not more
than two persons not related by blood, marriage, or adoption. A person shall be
considered to be related for the purpose of this section if he or she is
dwelling for the purpose of adoption or for a foster care program. Exceptions:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit, under the definition of FAMILY,
priests, lay brothers, nurses, or such other collective body of persons living
either in one house under the same management and care, subsisting in common,
and directing their attention to a common object or the promotion of their
mutual interest and social happiness as set forth by the Wisconsin Supreme
Court in Missionaries of Our Lady of LaSailette vs. Village of Whitefish Board
of Zoning Appeals, 267 Wis. 609, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
   FARMSTEAD. A single-family residential structure located on a parcel of
land, which primary land use is associated with agriculture.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in streamflow or stage in lake level that results in
water overtopping the banks and inundating the areas adjacent to the steam
channel or lake bed.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or an
examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (for example, mud flow)
and/or floor-related erosion hazards. Such studies shall result in the
publication of a Flood Insurance Rate Map showing the intensity of flood
hazards in either numbered or unnumbered A Zones.
   FLOOD PROFILE. A graph showing the relationship of the floodwater surface
elevation of a flood event of a specified recurrence interval to the stream bed
and other significant natural and human-made features along a stream.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point two feet above the water surface
elevation of the 100-year recurrence interval flood. This safety factor, also
called “freeboard,” is intended to compensate for the many unknown factors that
contribute to flood heights greater than those computed. Such unknown factors
may include ice jams, debris accumulation, wave action, and obstructions of
bridge openings.
   FLOOD STAGE. The elevation of the floodwater surface above an officially
established datum plane, which is mean sea level, 1929 adjustment, on the
supplementary floodland zoning map.
   FLOODLANDS. For the purpose of this code, the floodlands are all lands
contained in the “regional flood” or 100-year recurrence interval flood. For
the purpose of zoning regulation, the FLOODLANDS are divided into the floodway
district, the floodplain conservancy district, and the floodplain fringe
overlay district.
   FLOODPLAIN FRINGE. Those floodlands, outside the floodway, subject to
inundation by the 100-year recurrence interval flood. For the purpose of this
code, the FLOODPLAIN FRINGE includes the floodplain conservancy district and
the floodplain fringe overlay district.
   FLOODPROOFING. Measures designed to prevent and reduce flood damage for
those uses which cannot be removed from, or which, of necessity, must be
erected in the floodplain, ranging from structural modifications through
installation of special equipment or materials, to operation and management
safeguards, such as the following: reinforcing the basement walls; underpinning
of floors; permanent sealing of all exterior openings; use of masonry
construction; erection of permanent watertight bulkheads, shutters and doors;
treatment of exposed timbers; elevation of flood-vulnerable utilities; use of
waterproof cement; adequate fuse protection; sealing of basement walls;
installation of sump pumps; placement of automatic swing check valves;
installation of seal-tight windows and doors; installation of wire reinforced
glass; location and elevation of valuable items; waterproofing, disconnecting,
elevation or removal of all electric equipment; avoidance of the use of flood-
vulnerable areas; temporary removal of waterproofing of merchandise; operation
of emergency pump equipment; closing of backwater sewer valve; placement of
plugs and food drain pipes; placement of movable watertight bulkheads; erection
of sand bag levees; and the shoring of weak walls or structures. FLOODPROOFING
of structures shall be extended at least to a point two feet above the
elevation of the regional flood. Any structure that is located entirely or
partially below the flood protection elevation shall be anchored to protect it
from larger floods.
   FLOODWAY. A designated portion of the 100-year flood area that will safely
convey the regulatory flood discharge with small, acceptable upstream and
downstream stage increases, limited in the state to 0.1 foot unless special
legal measures are provided. The FLOODWAY, which includes the channel, is that
portion of the floodplain not suited for human habitation. All fill, structures
and other development that would impair floodwater conveyance by adversely
increasing flood stages or velocities or would itself be subject to flood
damage should be prohibited in the FLOODWAY.
   FLOOR AREA, BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING BUILDINGS. For the purpose of
determining off-street parking and off-street loading requirements, the sum of
the gross horizontal areas of the floors of the building, or portion thereof,
devoted to a use requiring off-street parking or loading. This area shall
include accessory storage areas located within selling or working space
occupied by counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business
or professional offices. However, FLOOR AREA, for the purposes of determining
off-street parking spaces, shall not include floor area devoted primarily to
storage purposes except as otherwise noted herein.
   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. The primary domicile of a foster parent which is four or
fewer foster children and which is licensed under Wis. Stats. § 48.62 and
amendments thereto.
   FRONTAGE. All the property butting on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets or all of the property abutting on one side of a street
between an intersecting street and the dead end of a street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for storage of
automobiles of the occupant of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or portion thereof, not accessory to a
residential building or structure, used for equipping, servicing, repairing,
leasing, or public parking of motor vehicles.
   GROUP FOSTER HOME. Any facility operated by a person required to be licensed
by Wis. Stats. § 48.62 for the care and maintenance of five to eight foster
children.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, or trade conducted on a regular
basis within or from an approved residential dwelling and/or accessory
buildings (if permitted) by one or more occupants residing in the dwelling that
is clearly incidental and subordinate to the primary or principal use of the
dwelling and property.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging, with or without meals, is offered to
transient guests for compensation and in which there are more than five
sleeping rooms with no cooking facilities in any individual room or apartment.
   LOADING AREA. A completely off-street space or berth on the same lot for the
loading or unloading of freight earners, having adequate ingress and egress to
a public street or alley.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation
for not more than three persons not members of the family.
   LOT. A parcel of land having frontage on a public street, or other
officially approved means of access, occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal structure or use, and sufficient in size to meet the lot width, lot
frontage, lot area, and other open space provisions of this code as pertaining
to the district wherein located.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection,
provided that the comer of such intersection shall have an angle of 135 degrees
or less, measured on the lot side.
   LOT COVERAGE (EXCEPT RESIDENTIAL). The area of a lot occupied by the
principal building or buildings and accessory buildings including any
driveways, parking areas, loading areas, storage areas, and walkways.
   LOT COVERAGE (RESIDENTIAL). The area of a lot occupied by the principal
building or buildings and accessory building.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot situated on a single street which is bounded by
adjacent lots along each of its other lines, and is not a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the abutting street or
alley right-of-way line.
   LOT LINES AND AREA. The peripheral boundaries of a parcel of land and the
total area lying within such boundaries.
   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A parcel of land held in separate ownership having
frontage on a public street, or other approved means of access, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a principal building or structure, together with
accessory buildings and uses, having insufficient size to meet the lot width,
lot area, yard, off-street parking areas, or other open space provisions of
this code as pertaining to the district wherein located.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot,
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the building setback line.
   MINOR STRUCTURES. Any small, movable accessory erection or construction such
as birdhouses, tool houses, pet houses, play equipment, arbors, and walls and
fences under four feet in height.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured home that is HUD certified and labeled under the
National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. A MOBILE HOME is a transportable structure, being eight
feet or more in width (not including the overhang of the roof), built on a
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile home
and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land which has been developed for the
placement of mobile homes and is owned by an individual, a firm, trust,
partnership, public or private association, or corporation. Individual lots
within a MOBILE HOME PARK are rented to individual mobile home users.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A land subdivision, as defined by Wis. Stats.
Chapter 236 and any village land division ordinance, with lots intended for the
placement of individual mobile home units. Individual homesites are in separate
ownership as opposed to the rental arrangements in mobile home parks.
   MODULAR UNIT. A modular unit is a factor fabricated transportable building
unit designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at
a building site into a modular structure to be used for residential,
commercial, educational, or industrial purposes.
   NON-CONFORMING USES. Any structure, use of land, use of land and structure
in combination or characteristic of use (such as yard requirement or lot size)
which was existing at the time of the effective date of this code or amendments
thereto, and which is not in conformance with this code. Any such structure
conforming in respect to use but not in respect to frontage, width, height,
area, yard, parking, loading or distance requirements shall not be considered a
NON-CONFORMING USE, but shall be considered non-conforming with respect to
those characteristics.
   OFFICIAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT. Official notification from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that a flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map has been amended.
   PARKING LOT. A structure or premises containing five or more parking spaces
open to the public.
   PARKING SPACE. A graded and surfaced area of not less than 180 square feet
in area, either enclosed or open, for the parking of a motor vehicle, having
adequate ingress and egress to a public street or alley.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. Includes all abutting property owners, all property
owners within 100 feet, and all property owners of opposite frontages.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purposes for which a lot or parcel is used.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. The office of a doctor, practitioner, dentist,
minister, architect, landscape architect, engineer, lawyer, author, musician,
or other recognized trade. When established in a residential district, a
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE shall be incidental to the residential occupation, not more
than 25% of the floor area of one story of a dwelling unit shall be occupied by
such office and only one unlighted nameplate, not exceeding one square foot in
area, containing the name and profession of the occupant of the premises shall
be exhibited.
   PUBLIC AIRPORT. Any airport which complies with the definition contained in
Wis. Stats. § 114.105 or any airport which serves or offers to serve common
carriers engaged in air transport.
   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and a
line parallel thereto through the nearest point of the principal structure.
This yard shall be opposite the street yard or one of the street yards on a
corner lot.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. This regional flood is a flood determined to be
representative of large floods known to have generally occurred in the state
and which may be expected to occur on a particular stream because of like
physical characteristics. The flood frequency of the REGIONAL FLOOD is once in
every 100 years; this means that in any given year, there is a 1% chance that
the REGIONAL FLOOD may occur or be exceeded. During a typical 30 year mortgage
period, the regional flood has a 26% chance of occurrence.
   RETAIL. The sale of goods or merchandise in small quantities to the
consumer.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
nearest point of the foundation of that portion of the building to be enclosed.
The overhang cornices shall not exceed 24 inches. Any overhang of the cornice
in excess of 24 inches shall be compensated by increasing the SETBACK by an
amount equal to the excess of cornice over 24 inches. Uncovered steps shall not
be included in measuring the SETBACK.
   SIDE YARD. A yard extending from the street yard to the rear yard of the
lot, the width of which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the
side lot line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest point of the
principal structure.
   SIGNS. Any medium, including its structure, words, letters, figures,
numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names, or
trademarks by which anything is made known and which are used to advertise or
promote an individual, firm, association, corporation, profession, business,
commodity or product, and which is visible from any public street or highway.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, perineum, anal region, or female breast at or
below the areola, or human male genitals in a discernable turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, perineum, anal region, or the female breast.
   STORY.
      (1)   The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      (2)   Any portion of a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be
considered as an additional STORY for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
      (3)   A basement having one-half or more of its height above grade shall
be deemed a STORY for purposes of height regulation.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip, or mansard roof,
the wall plates of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more
than four and one-half feet above the finished floor of such story. In the case
of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings less
than three stories in height, a one-half story in a sloping roof shall not be
counted as a story for the purposes of this code.
   STREET. Property other than an alley or private thoroughfare or travelway
which is subject to public easement or right-of-way for use as a thoroughfare,
and which is 21 feet or more in width.
   STREET YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depot of
which shall be the minimum horizontal distance between the existing street or
highway right-of-way line and a line parallel thereto through the nearest point
of the principal structure. Corner lots shall have two STREET YARDS.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a structure,
such as foundations, bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE. Facts and information, other than merely personal
preferences or speculation, directly pertaining to the requirements and
conditions an applicant must meet to obtain a conditional use and that
reasonable persons would accept in support of a conclusion.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A movable structure not designed for human occupancy
nor for the protection of goods or chattels and not forming an enclosure, such
as billboards.
   TINY HOUSE. A single-family dwelling that is 400 square feet or less in
floor area, excluding lofts.
   TINY HOUSE ON WHEELS. A tiny housing that is mounted on a wheeled trailer
chassis.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereof is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building or use which is located on the same
lot on which the principal building or use is situated, and which is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such building or
main use, when permitted by district regulations.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or building as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory use.
   UTILITIES. Public and private facilities, such as water wells, water and
sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, electrical power substations,
static transformer stations, telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio
relays, and gas regulation stations, inclusive of associated transmission
facilities, but not including sewage disposal plants, municipal incinerators,
warehouses, shops, storage yards, and power plants.
   VISION CLEARANCE. An unoccupied triangular space at the street corner of a
corner lot which is bounded by the street lines and a setback line connecting
points specified by measurement from the corner on each street line.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except the vegetation. The street and rear
yards extend the full width of the lot.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The concept whereby two respective dwelling units within a
building shall be on separate and abutting lots and shall meet on the common
property line between them, thereby having zero space between said units.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, to certify that the use of lands,
structures, air, and waters subject to this chapter are or shall be used in
accordance with the provisions of said chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-141 MOBILE HOME DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall be
used specific to §
13-1-27 and Article E, unless a different definition is specifically provided
for a section. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
number includes the plural number; and the plural number includes the singular
number. The word SHALL is mandatory and not permissive.
      COMPLETE BATHROOM FACILITIES. A flush toilet, lavatory, bath, and kitchen
sink.
      FOUNDATION SIDING. A fire and weather resistant, pre-finished material
surrounding the entire perimeter of a home and completely enclosing a space
between the exterior wall of such home and the ground. Foundation siding shall
be properly vented, harmonious, and compatible with the house and installed
within 60 days from the date of placement on site.
      LICENSEE. Any person, firm, or corporation licensed to operate and
maintain a mobile home park under this chapter.
      MOBILE HOME COMMUNITIES (PARKS). Mobile home communities/parks are
distinguished from subdivisions lacking common facilities and continuing
management services. The latter would be controlled by general subdivision
regulations, which would apply also to mobile home subdivisions without common
open space or continuing management.
      MOBILE HOME ON TINY HOME NEIGHBORHOOD. A plot or plots of ground upon
which two or more units, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are
located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
As used in this chapter, mobile home park is limited to plots on which are
located two or more nondependent mobile homes.
      MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual space which has been
reserved and improved for the placement of one mobile home unit.
      MOBILE HOME or TINY HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for
subdivision according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed
or intended for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for
residential occupancy primarily by mobile homes.
      NONDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home equipped with complete bath and
toilet facilities, all furniture, cooking, heating, appliances, and complete
year-round facilities.
      OCCUPIED AREA. The portion of an individual mobile home space which is
covered by a mobile home and its accessory structures.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation.
      PRIMARY EXPOSURE. Open areas adjacent to the front wall (or main
entrance) of a dwelling unit.
      RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME. A single-family dwelling built on or after
October 1, 1974, in accordance with the ANSI Code (American National Standards
Institute) or in accordance with the HUD Code (Housing and Urban Development),
both of which govern the heating and cooling systems, electrical systems, fire
safety, body and frame construction, thermal protections and plumbing systems.
All said homes shall bear the proper approved state insignia as required by
Wis. Admin. Code, §§ SPS 320.12-320.17. MOBILE HOME also means a dwelling which
is, or was as originally constructed, designed to be transported by any motor
vehicle upon a public highway and designed, equipped and used primarily for
sleeping, eating, and living quarters, or is intended to be so used; and
includes any additions, attachments, annexes, foundations, and appurtenances,
except that a mobile home is not deemed a mobile home if the assessable value
of such additions, attachments, annexes, foundations, and appurtenances equals
or exceed 50% of the assessable value of the mobile home. The term MOBILE HOME
shall not include a factory-built structure meeting the following requirements;
         a.   Intended to be set on a foundation by virtue of its construction;
         b.   Which is normally transported only once, from the factory to the
construction site; and
         c.   Which, from its very beginning, is designed to be permanently
affixed to land.
      SECONDARY EXPOSURE. Open areas adjacent to side and rear walls of a
dwelling unit.
      SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park, designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home unit.
   (b)   In addition to the above definitions, definitions contained in Wis.
Stats. § 66.0435 shall also be applicable.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-142 LARGE LIVESTOCK DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall be used
specific to §§
13-1-29 and
13-l-125(p), related to large livestock facilities. Words used in the present
tense include the future; the singular number includes the plural number; and
the plural number includes the singular number. The word SHALL is mandatory and
not permissive.
   ADJACENT. Located on land parcels that touch each other, or on land parcels
that are separated only by a river, stream, or transportation, or utility
right-of-way.
   ANIMAL UNIT. Has the meaning that was given in Wis. Admin. Code, § NR 243.03
(5).
   EXPANDED LIVESTOCK FACILITY. The entire livestock facility that is created
by the expansion, after May 1, 2006. EXPANDED LIVESTOCK FACILITY includes all
livestock structures in the expanded facility, regardless of whether those
structures are new, existing, or altered.
   EXPANSION. An increase in the largest number of animal units kept at a
livestock facility on at least 90 days in any 12-month period. The acquisition
of an existing livestock facility, by the operator of an adjacent livestock
facility, does not constitute an EXPANSION unless that operator increases the
largest number of animal units kept at the combined livestock facilities on at
least 90 days in any 12-month period.
   LIVESTOCK. Domestic animals traditionally used in this state in the
production of food, fiber, or other animal products. LIVESTOCK includes cattle,
swine, poultry, sheep, and goats. LIVESTOCK does not include equine animals,
farm-raised deer, fish, captive game birds, ratites, cameiids, or mink.
   LIVESTOCK FACILITY. A feedlot, dairy farm, or other operation where
livestock are or will be fed, confined, maintained or stabled for a total of 45
days or more in any 12-month period. A LIVESTOCK FACILITY includes all of the
tax parcels of land on which the facility is located, but does not include a
pasture or winter grazing area. Related LIVESTOCK FACILITIES are collectively
treated as a single LIVESTOCK FACILITY for purposes of this chapter, except
that an operator may elect to treat a separate species facility as a separate
LIVESTOCK FACILITY.
   LIVESTOCK STRUCTURE. A building or other structure used to house or feed
livestock, to confine livestock for milking, to confine livestock for feeding
other than grazing, to store livestock feed, or to collect or store waste
generated at a livestock facility. LIVESTOCK STRUCTURE includes a barn, milking
parlor, feed storage facility, feeding facility, animal lot, or waste storage
facility. LIVESTOCK STRUCTURE does not include a pasture or winter grazing
area, a fence surrounding a pasture or winter grazing are, a livestock watering
or feeding facility in a pasture or winter grazing area, or a machine shed or
like facility that is not used for livestock.
   NEW LIVESTOCK FACILITY. A livestock facility that will be used as a
livestock facility for the first time, or for the first time in at least five
years. NEW LIVESTOCK FACILITY does not include an expanded livestock facility
if any portion of that facility has been used as a livestock facility in the
preceding five years.
   OPERATOR. A person who applied for or holds a local approval for a livestock
facility.
   PROPERTY LINE. A line that separates parcels of land owned by different
persons.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A building or part of a building no more than 500 square
feet used for the retail sale of agricultural and related incidental products,
excluding livestock, produced on the farm where the stand is located.
   WASTE. Manure, milking center waste, and other organic waste generated by a
livestock facility.
   WASTE STORAGE STRUCTURE. A waste storage impoundment made by constructing
embankments, excavating a pit or dugout, or fabricating a structure. WASTE
STORAGE STRUCTURE does not include equipment used to apply waste to land. For
purposes of Wis. Admin. Code, §§ ATCP 51.12(2) and 51.14, WASTE STORAGE
STRUCTURE does not include any of the following:
      (1)   A structure used to collect and store waste under a livestock
housing facility; or
      (2)   A manure digester consisting of a sealed structure in which manure
is subjected to managed biological decomposition.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
§ 13-1-143 SIGN DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall be used
specific to Article H. Words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular number includes the plural number; and the plural number includes the
singular number. The word SHALL is mandatory and not permissive.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which is in disrepair or which no longer identifies a
bonafide business or current service, owner, product, or activity carried out
on or off of the premises upon which the sign is located or whose message is
for an event whose time has passed or whose object or subject no longer exist
or for which sign the owner cannot be located. It shall also include any sign
which no longer supports or contains the medium of communication for which it
was designated.
   AWNING SIGN. A non-illuminated sign painted on or attached to a fabric or
vinyl cover on a rigid frame which is affixed as a projection from or extension
of a building or other structure, erected in such a manner as to provide
shelter or cover over the approach to the entrance of any building or other
structure, or place of assembly. AWNING SIGNS shall contain only the names of
businesses, logos, and address, and no other or further information or message.
   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted
to a pole or a building at one or more edges. National flags, state, or
municipal flags, or the official flag of any institution or business, shall not
be considered a BANNER.
   BILLBOARD. An outdoor advertising sign which directs attention to a
business, product, service, activity, or solicits patronage of a business not
conducted upon or offered on the premises where the sign is located.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession,
service, or entertainment sold from or offered upon the premises where such
sign is located, which contains no other or further messages.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A manual, electronic sign, or electronic time or
temperature sign, or reader board whose message is electronically or
mechanically changed.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any message advertising a particular business or
identifying goods, services, recreational activities, or other public or
private services made available to the public at large.
   DISPLAY FACE. The entire surface area of a sign upon which information copy
can be placed. DISPLAY FACE shall not be interpreted to include the super
structure or supports of a sign outside of the DISPLAY FACE area contained
thereupon. One side of a double-faced sign shall be used to determine the
surface area of the DISPLAY FACE of that sign.
   FLAG SIGN. Devices generally made of flexible materials, such as cloth,
paper, or plastic, and supported by a single vertical pole mounted into the
ground or on a portable structure. They may or may not contain sign copy.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign, whose lighting is not constant in
intensity or color at all times and whose message is displayed by means of
those changes. Illuminated signs that indicate the time, temperature, weather,
or similar public service information are not flashing signs.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which is supported by structures or supports in
or upon the ground and independent from any building. FREESTANDING SIGNS
include ground signs, pylon signs, and signs less than four feet in height
supported by a single pole or post.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign that rests upon or is affixed to the grade or is
supported by posts or pillars on the sides and/or a structural base.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which emanates light by means of exposed or
recessed artificial lighting devices. It shall not include a FLASHING SIGN.
   JOINT BUSINESS SIGN. A ground sign which serves as a collective means of
identifying three or more businesses or occupations operated on the same
premises upon which the sign is located including, but not limited to, sign
advertising a retail mall, shopping center, or office complex. The messages on
such signs shall be limited to the name and telephone number of the business.
   MENU BOARD. A permanently mounted sign displaying the foods, products, or
services for a drive-through or walk-up facility.
   MESSAGE. Communication consisting of numbers, letters, characters, or
pictorial descriptions or representations designed to attract the attention of
the public.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign made of brick, masonry, stone, or other materials, the
bottom of which is attached directly to and permanently affixed to the ground
and physically separated from any other structure located on the same premises
as is the sign.
   MURAL. A picture painted on an exterior surface of a structure.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN. Sign expressing personal, political, religious, or
other opinions, and not advertising any product, service, or event.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign legally in existence and actively in use as of
the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto which does not
comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which is not related to a product sold, a service
offered, or identity of the property on which the sign is located. This
definition does not include non-commercial signs that meet all applicable
requirements of this chapter.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign identifying or advertising a business, person,
activity, goods, or services located upon or doing business from the same
premises upon which the sign is located.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign including, but not limited to, a reader board sign,
not permanently affixed to or attached to the ground that is designed to be
easily moved from one location to another, with or without wheels, including,
but not limited to, signs in or upon trailers and trucks.
   PREMISES. A legally-described and recorded lot, parcel, or other tract of
land.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to the wall of a building or any other
structure that projects horizontally more than 12 inches from the face of the
wall or structure. This definition does not include MARQUEE.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected or constructed wholly upon and over the roof of
any building or other structure, supported by the roof or other structure and
extending vertically above the highest portion of said roof or structure at its
highest point above grade.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, constructed,
and managed as a unified entity that share a common on-site parking area for
customers and employees, with provision for goods delivery separated from
customer access, and with aesthetic considerations and protection from the
elements.
   SIGN. An object, device, display, placard, or other form of structure or
part thereof, displayed out of doors and visible from any street or highway
right-of-way, adjoining premises, or navigable water which contains a display
face which, in turn, contains a message whose purpose it is to display a
message to persons through visual means.
   SIGN COPY. The message or advertisement, and any other symbols on the face
of a sign.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign which is erected or constructed and is portable
including, but not limited to, portable poster-type signs, banners, flags,
pennants, and inflatable signs. Said definition shall include, as well, A-FRAME
SANDWICH BOARDS and READER BOARD SIGNS.
   WALL SIGN. A business sign permanently attached to and constructed of rigid
material, erected upon, or painted on or applied to the wall of a building or
other structure, projecting not more than eight inches from the wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any advertising sign affixed to an exterior window of a
building or other structure.
(Ord. passed 1-18-2021)
CHAPTER 2: FLOODPLAIN ZONING
(Reserved for future use)
CHAPTER 3: SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING
Section
Article A: Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Statement of Purpose, and
Title
   
13-3-1   Statutory authorization
   
13-3-2   Findings of fact
   
13-3-3   Title of chapter
   13-3-4 through 13-3-9   Reserved for future use
Article B: General Provisions
   
13-3-10   Compliance
   
13-3-11   Municipalities and state agencies regulated
   
13-3-12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
13-3-13   Interpretation
   
13-3-14   Severability
   
13-3-15   Annexed areas
   
13-3-16   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   13-3-17 through 13-3-19   Reserved for future use
Article C: Shoreland-Wetland Zoning District
   
13-3-20   Purpose of shoreland-wetland zoning
   
13-3-21   Official shoreland-wetland zoning maps
   
13-3-22   District boundaries
   
13-3-23   Permitted uses
   
13-3-24   Regulation of tree cutting, removal of shrubbery, and related
activities
   
13-3-25   Water setbacks and building elevation standards
   13-3-26 through 13-3-29   Reserved for future use
Article D: Administrative Provisions
   
13-3-30   Zoning Administrator
   
13-3-31   Zoning permits
   
13-3-32   Conditional use permits for wetland areas
   
13-3-33   Fees
   
13-3-34   Recording
   
13-3-35   Revocation
   
13-3-36   Board of Appeals
   
13-3-37   Amending shoreland-wetland zoning regulations
   13-3-38 through 13-3-39   Reserved for future use
Article E: Penalties; Definitions
   
13-3-40   Enforcement and penalties
   
13-3-41   Definitions
ARTICLE A: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, STATEMENT OF PURPOSE, AND
TITLE
§ 13-3-1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization in Wis. Stats. §§
61.35, 61.351, and 87.30.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-1)
§ 13-3-2 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Uncontrolled use of the shoreland-wetlands and the pollution of the
navigable waters of the village would adversely affect the public health,
safety, convenience, general welfare, and impair the tax base. The legislature
of the state has delegated responsibility to all municipalities to:
   (a)   Promote the public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare;
   (b)   Maintain the storm and floodwater storage capacity of wetlands;
   (c)   Prevent and control water pollution by preserving wetlands which
filter or store sediments, nutrients, heavy metals, or organic compounds that
would otherwise drain into navigable waters;
   (d)   Protect fish, their spawning grounds, other aquatic life and wildlife
by preserving wetlands and other aquatic habitat;
   (e)   Prohibit certain uses detrimental to the shoreland-wetland area; and
   (f)   Preserve shore cover and natural beauty by restricting the removal of
natural shoreland cover and controlling shoreland-wetland excavation, filling,
and other earth moving activities.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-2)
§ 13-3-3 TITLE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Shoreland-Wetland Zoning Ordinance/
Chapter” for the village.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-3)
§§ 13-3-4 THROUGH 13-3-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE B: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13-3-10 COMPLIANCE.
   The use of any land or water, the use, size, type, and location of
structures on lots; the filling, grading, lagooning, or dredging of any lands;
and the cutting of shoreland vegetation shall be in full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable local, state, or federal
regulations. (However, see §
13-3-23 for the standards applicable to non-conforming uses.) All permitted
development shall require the issuance of a zoning permit unless otherwise
expressly excluded by a provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-10)
§ 13-3-11 MUNICIPALITIES AND STATE AGENCIES REGULATED.
   Unless specifically exempted by law, all cities, villages, town, and
counties are required to comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary
permits. State agencies are required to comply if Wis. Stats. § 13.48(13)
applies. The construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and repair of state
highways and bridges by the State Department of Transportation are exempt when
Wis. Stats. § 30.12(4)(a) applies.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-11)
§ 13-3-12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   This chapter supersedes all the provisions of any municipal zoning-
ordinance enacted under Wis. Stats. §§ 61.35, 62.23, or 87.30 which relates to
shoreland-wetlands, except that where another municipal zoning ordinance is
more restrictive than the provisions contained in this chapter, that ordinance
shall continue in full force and effect to the extent of the greater
restrictions, but not otherwise.
   (b)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing deed restrictions, covenants, or easements. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-12)
§ 13-3-13 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the municipality, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by the state statutes. Where a provision of this
chapter is required by a standard in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 117, and
where the chapter provision is unclear, the provision shall be interpreted in
light of the Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 117 standards in effect on the date
of the adoption of this chapter, or in effect on the date of the most recent
text amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-13)
§ 13-3-14 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any portion of this chapter be declared invalid or unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this
chapter shall not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-14)
§ 13-3-15 ANNEXED AREAS.
   The shoreland zoning provisions of Barron and Polk Counties in effect on the
date of annexation remain in effect administered by the municipality after May
7, 1982, unless any of the changes allowed by Wis. Stats. § 59.692(7)(a)(1-3),
occurs. These annexed lands are described on the municipality’s official zoning
map. County shoreland zoning provisions are incorporated by reference for the
purpose of administering this chapter and are on file in the office of the
Municipal Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-15)
§ 13-3-16 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (a)   The degree of flood protection, based upon a once per 100-year flood
frequency and a once per 500-year flood frequency for critical use facilities,
as defined in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 116, and erosion hazard protection
(based on a 50-year period) intended to be provided by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on rare occasions;
larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased by human-made or
natural causes such as ice jams or bridge openings restricted by debris.
   (b)   Therefore, this chapter does not imply that areas outside of the
delineated floodplain or erosion hazard areas or land uses permitted within the
floodplain will be totally free from flooding or erosion and associated
damages. Nor shall this action against the village, or any officer or employee
thereof, for any flood, erosion, or other water-related damages that may result
from reliance on this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-16)
§§ 13-3-17 THROUGH 13-3-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE C: SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING DISTRICT
§ 13-3-20 PURPOSE OF SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING.
   This chapter is adopted to maintain safe and healthful conditions, to
prevent and control water pollution, to protect fish spawning grounds, fish and
aquatic life and wildlife habitation, to preserve shore cover and natural
beauty, and to control building and development in wetlands whenever possible.
When development is permitted in a wetland, the development should occur in a
manner which minimizes adverse impacts upon the wetland.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-20)
§ 13-3-21 OFFICIAL SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING MAPS.
   The following maps are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
are on file in the office of the Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate.
   (a)   Wisconsin Wetland Inventory map stamped “Final” on June 30, 1986.
   (b)   United States Geological Survey maps dated June and July, 1978.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-21)
§ 13-3-22 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (a)   Boundaries. The shoreland-wetland zoning district includes all
wetlands in the village, which are five acres or more and are shown on the
final wetland inventory map that has been adopted and made a part of this
chapter in §
13-3-21, and which are:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the ordinary high-water mark of navigable
lakes, ponds, or flowages. Lakes, ponds, or flowages in the village shall be
presumed to be navigable if they are shown on the United States Geological
Survey quadrangle maps or other zoning base maps which have been incorporated
by reference and made a part of this chapter in §
13-3-21; and
      (2)   Within 300 feet of the ordinary high-water mark of navigable rivers
or streams, or to the landward side of the floodplain, whichever distance is
greater. Rivers and streams shall be presumed to be navigable if they are
designated as either continuous or intermittent waterways on the United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps or other zoning base maps which have been
incorporated by reference and made a part of this chapter in §
13-3-21.
   (b)   Farm drainage ditches. Under Wis. Stats. § 281.31(2m), the shoreland
jurisdiction to which the shoreland-wetland district applies, does not include
lands adjacent to farm drainage ditches if:
      (1)   Such lands are not adjacent to a natural navigable stream or river;
      (2)   Those parts of such drainage ditches, adjacent to such lands were
on navigable streams before ditching, or had no previous stream history; and
      (3)   Such lands are maintained in nonstructural agriculture use.
   (c)   Determinations of navigability. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall initially make a determination
of navigability and ordinary high-water mark. When questions arise, the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
contact the appropriate office of the State Department of Natural Resources for
the final determination of navigability or ordinary high-water mark.
   (d)   Discrepancies. When an apparent discrepancy exists between the
shoreland-wetland district boundary shown on the official shoreland-wetland
zoning maps and the actual field conditions at the time the maps were adopted,
the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall contact the appropriate office of the Department of Natural Resources to
determine if the shoreland-wetland district boundary as mapped is in error. If
the DNR staff concurs with the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, that a particular area was incorrectly mapped as a
wetland, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall have the authority to immediately grant or deny a land use
or building permit in accordance with the regulations applicable to the correct
zoning district. In order to correct wetland mapping errors shown on the
official shoreland-wetland zoning maps, the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall be responsible for initiating a
shoreland-wetland map amendment within a reasonable period.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-22)
§ 13-3-23 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted subject to the provisions of Wis. Stats.
Chapters 30 and 31, and the provisions of other local, state, and federal laws,
if applicable.
   (a)   Activities and uses which do not require the issuance of a zoning
permit, provided that no wetland alteration occurs:
         (1)   Hiking, fishing, trapping, hunting, swimming, snowmobiling, and
boating;
         (2)   The harvesting of wild crops, such as marsh hay, ferns, moss,
wild rice, berries, tree fruits, and tree seeds, in a manner that is not
injurious to the natural reproduction of such crops;
         (3)   The practice of silviculture, including the planting, thinning,
and harvesting of timber;
         (4)   The pasturing of livestock;
         (5)   The cultivation of agricultural crops; and
         (6)   The construction and maintenance of duck blinds.
   (b)   Uses which do not require the issuance of a zoning permit and which
may involve wetland alterations only to the extent specifically provided below.
      (1)   The practice of silviculture, including limited temporary water
level stabilization measures which are necessary to alleviate abnormally wet or
dry conditions that would have an adverse impact on the conduct of
silvicultural activities if not corrected.
      (2)   The cultivation of cranberries, including limited wetland
alterations necessary for the purpose of growing and harvesting cranberries.
      (3)   The maintenance and repair of existing drainage to restore pre-
existing levels of drainage, including the minimum amount of filling necessary
to dispose of dredged spoil, provided that the filling is permissible under
Wis. Stats. Chapter 30, and that dredged spoil is placed on existing spoil
banks where possible.
      (4)   The construction and maintenance of fences for the pasturing of
livestock, including limited excavating and filling necessary for such
construction or maintenance.
      (5)   The construction and maintenance of piers, docks, and walkways,
observation decks, and trail bridges built on pilings, including limited
excavating and filling necessary for such construction or maintenance.
      (6)   The installation and maintenance of sealed tiles for the purpose of
draining lands outside the shoreland-wetland zoning district, provided that
such installation or maintenance is done in a manner designed to minimize the
adverse impact upon the natural functions of the shoreland-wetland listed in §
13-3-37(c).
      (7)   The maintenance, repair, replacement, and reconstruction of
existing highways and bridges, including limited excavating and filling
necessary for such maintenance, repair, replacement, or reconstruction.
   (c)   Uses which are allowed upon the issuance of a building permit and
which may include wetland alterations only to the extent specifically provided
below.
      (1)   The construction and maintenance of roads which are necessary for
the continuity of the municipal street system, the provision of essential
utility and emergency services, or to provide access to uses permitted in this
section, provided that:
         a.   The road cannot, as a practical matter, be located outside the
wetland;
         b.   The road is designed and constructed to minimize the adverse,
impact upon the natural functions of the wetland listed in §
13-3-37(c);
         c.   The road is designed and constructed with the minimum cross-
sectional area practical to serve the intended use;
         d.   Road construction activities are carried out in the immediate
area of the roadbed only; and
         e.   Any wetland alteration must be necessary for the construction or
maintenance of the road.
      (2)   The construction and maintenance of non-residential buildings,
provided that:
         a.   The building is used solely in conjunction with a use permitted
in the shoreland-wetland district or for the raising of waterfowl, minnows, or
other wetland or aquatic animals;
         b.   The building cannot, as a practical matter, be located outside
the wetland;
         c.   The building does not exceed 500 square feet in floor area; and
         d.   Only limited filling and excavating necessary to provide
structural support for the building is allowed.
      (3)   The establishment and development of public and private parks and
recreation areas, outdoor education areas, historic, natural, and scientific
areas, game refuges and closed areas, fish and wildlife preserves, and public
boat launching ramps, provided that:
         a.   Any private development allowed under this subsection (c)(3)
shall be used exclusively for the permitted purpose;
         b.   Only limited filling and excavating necessary for the development
of public boat launching ramps, swimming beaches, or the construction of park
shelters or similar structures is allowed;
         c.   The construction and maintenance of roads necessary for the uses
permitted under this subsection (c)(3) are allowed only where such construction
and maintenance meets the criteria in subsection (c)(1) above; and
         d.   Wetland alterations in game refuges and closed areas, fish, and
wildlife habitat improvement projects, game bird, and animal farms. Wildlife
preserves shall be for the purpose of improving wildlife habitat or to
otherwise enhance wetland values.
      (4)   The construction and maintenance of electric and telephone
transmission lines and water, gas and sewer distribution lines, and related
facilities, and the construction and maintenance of railroad lines, provided
that:
         a.   The utility transmission and distribution facilities and railroad
lines cannot, as a practical matter, be located outside the wetland;
         b.   Only limited filling or excavating necessary for such
construction or maintenance is allowed; and
         c.   Such construction or maintenance is done in a manner designed to
minimize the adverse impact upon the natural functions of the wetland listed in
§
13-3-37(c).
(Prior Code, § 13-3-23)
§ 13-3-24 REGULATION OF TREE CUTTING, REMOVAL OF SHRUBBERY, AND RELATED
ACTIVITIES.
   The following uses are permitted, subject to the provisions of Wis. Stats.
Chapters 30 and 31, and the provisions of other local, state, and federal laws,
if applicable.
   (a) Tree cutting, removal of shrubbery, and related activities. Tree cutting
and removal or replacement of natural shrubbery in the shoreland jurisdiction
shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Shoreland vegetation protection area. There shall be a shoreland
vegetation protection area on each lot extending from the natural high-water
elevation to a line that is landward of the natural high-water elevation, as
described in §
13-3-25(a)(1). Within this area the removal of trees, shrubs, and ground cover
are limited to the following.
         a.   Establishment of one viewing corridor for each lot by pruning and
selective removal of trees and shrubbery. Clear cutting is not permitted in the
corridor or elsewhere within the shoreland vegetation protection area.
Sufficient trees and shrubbery shall be retained to screen development from
view from the water, but provide for a filtered view of the water. No more than
50% of the trees can be removed from the viewing corridor. The viewing corridor
shall be more or less perpendicular to the shore, no more than 30% of the width
not to exceed 30 feet in width paralleling the shore, and shall be set back at
least 20 feet from the lot line.
         b.   Pier, wharf, and lift placement shall be confined to waters
immediately adjacent to the view corridor, unless not feasible due to steep
slope, wet soils, or similar conditions.
         c.   One pedestrian pathway to the shoreline provided:
            1.   It is located within the viewing corridor; unless such
location is not feasible due to steep slopes, wet soils, or similar conditions;
            2.   It is no more than four feet wide and constructed of natural
materials, which blend with the ground cover in the vicinity of the pathway; or
            3.   An elevated walkway or powered lift may be substituted for a
pedestrian access pathway, provided it is the minimum construction necessary to
access the shore because of steep slopes, wet soils, or similar limiting
conditions, and construction plans are approved by the Zoning Administrator,
Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate.
         d.   Removal of dead and diseased trees, and trees which are a safety
hazard.
         e.   Control of noxious and exotic species.
         f.   Any paths, road, or passages within the strip shall be
constructed or surfaced so as to be effective in controlling erosion.
      (2)   Commercial forestry. A conditional use permit shall be required for
the commercial harvesting of trees from the inland edge of the vegetative
buffer strip to the outer limits of the shoreland. In reviewing the application
for the conditional use permit, the Planning Commission and Board shall
consider the maintenance of water quality, preservation of scenic values, and
adequate slash disposal methods.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-24)
§ 13-3-25 WATER SETBACKS AND BUILDING ELEVATION STANDARDS.
   All buildings and structures in the shoreland jurisdiction within any/all
zoning districts shall comply with the following standards.
   (a)   Setbacks. No building or structures shall be located within the areas
located between the ordinary high water mark (OHWM) and water setback lines,
located inland from and parallel to (OHWM) within 75 feet. Provided, however
that:
      (1)   Driveways, walkways, platforms, terraces, or patios are not allowed
without a variance and are considered a structure subject to setback
requirements. No part of any such structures shall extend more than 12 inches
above the ground level, and all structures shall be constructed so as to
control erosion and comply within the tree cutting and related standards of §
13-3-24(a). A four foot by four foot landing in conjunction with steps, which
shall not exceed four feet in width, is allowed within the respective setback
from the lake. No part of the steps are to extend more than three feet above
the ground level. One single rail above that three foot high step may be
constructed on each side of the walkway or steps. Steps, landings, and railings
shall be constructed so as to maintain the natural appearance of the shoreland.
      (2)   A water setback line located 100 feet inland of the ordinary high
water mark of a navigable lake, pond, or flowage shall apply to farm buildings
housing animals, barnyards, and feedlots.
      (3)   Reduced setbacks for residential buildings may be determined by the
Zoning Board of Appeals where there is present on either or both sides of the
applicant’s parcel, main residential structures which are within 200 feet of
the applicant’s proposed building site and which are closer than respective
setback from the ordinary high water mark. The reduced setback shall not be
less than the average of the existing residences, where there are residences on
each side of the proposed site. Where there is only one existing residence, the
reduction should not be less than the average of that building and respective
setback. In no case shall any reduction be granted hereunder which would allow
placement of structures within a defined floodway.
      (4)   Piers, boathouses, docks, sea walls, marinas, and similar marine
service or shoreline facilities shall be governed by these standards.
         a.   Boathouses shall be used solely for the storage of aquatic
equipment and shall not be used for human habitation.
         b.   Boathouses shall be set back ten feet from the ordinary high
water mark and five feet from side lot lines.
         c.   Eaves shall not exceed one foot.
         d.   Boathouses shall not exceed eight feet in height and 96 square
feet in floor area.
         e.   Boathouses shall be of such color as not to detract from the
natural appearance of the shoreland.
   (b)   Piers, decks, and boat hoists. Piers, docks, and boat hoists may be
located within the water setback area, provided that such facilities are
capable of seasonal removal.
   (c)   Seawalls. Seawalls may be located within the water setback area,
provided that any permits required from the State Department of Natural
Resources are first obtained.
   (d)   Marinas. Marinas and non-residential marine service buildings,
structures, and facilities are not permitted within the setback area.
   (e)   Open structures. As required, the construction or placement of open
structures within the shoreland setback area shall be permitted if it meets the
following conditions.
      (1)   The part of the structure that is nearest to the water is located
at least 35 feet from the ordinary high-water mark.
      (2)   The structure shall be located within the view corridor described
in §
13-3-24(a)(1).
      (3)   The total floor area of all structures in the shoreland setback
area on the property will not exceed 200 square feet. This calculation shall
include the area of any deck, patio, hard surfaced walkway, stairway, the
portion of any per landward of the ordinary high-water mark, and any such
structures, but boathouses shall be excluded.
      (4)   The open structure shall have open or screened sides, which would
include any structure that either has no roof or has a roof and support posts
without walls. The structure shall not be attached to any other structure,
unless the side of such structure at the point of attachment is open or
screened.
      (5)   The structure shall not exceed ten feet in height.
      (6)   The side yard setback shall be a minimum of ten feet.
      (7)   The color of the structure shall blend with native or restored
vegetation at the site during the growing season.
      (8)   The vegetative buffer area between such structures and the ordinary
high water mark shall cover at least 70% of the half of the shoreland setback
area that is nearest to the water, and shall include a tree canopy, a shrub
layer, and ground cover.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-25)
§ 13-3-26 THROUGH 13-3-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE D: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 13-3-30 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, is appointed Zoning Administrator for the purpose of administering
and enforcing this chapter. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, shall have the following duties and powers.
   (a)   Advise applicants as to the provisions of this chapter and assist them
in preparing permit applications and appeal forms.
   (b)   Issue permits and inspect properties for compliance with this chapter.
   (c)   Keep records of all permits issued, inspections made, work approved,
and other official actions.
   (d)   Have access to any structure or premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. for the purpose of performing these duties.
   (e)   Submit copies of decisions on variances, conditional use permits,
appeals for a map or text interpretation, and map or text amendments within ten
days after they are granted or denied to the appropriate office of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   (f)   Investigate and report violations of this chapter to the appropriate
village planning agency and the District Attorney, corporation counsel, or
Village Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-30)
§ 13-3-31 ZONING PERMITS.
   (a)   When required. Unless another section of this chapter specifically
exempts certain types of development from this requirement, a zoning permit
shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, before any new development, as defined in §
13-3-41(b), or any change in the use of an existing building or structure is
initiated.
   (b)   Application. An application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, upon forms
furnished by the village and shall include, for the purpose of proper
enforcement of these regulations, the following information.
      (1)   General information.
         a.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, property
owner, and contractor, where applicable.
         b.   Legal description of the property and a general description of
the proposed use or development.
         c.   Whether or not a private water or sewage system is to be
installed.
      (2)   Site development plan. The site development plan shall be drawn to
scale and submitted as a part of the permit application form and shall contain
the following information:
         a.   Dimensions and area of the lot;
         b.   Location of any structures with distances measured from the lot
lines and centerline of all abutting streets or highways;
         c.   Description of any existing or proposed on-site sewage systems or
private water supply systems;
         d.   Location of the ordinary high-water mark of any abutting
navigable waterways;
         e.   Boundaries of all wetlands;
         f.   Existing and proposed topographic and drainage features and
vegetative cover;
         g.   Location of floodplain and floodway limits on the property as
determined from floodplain zoning maps used to delineate floodplain areas;
         h.   Location of existing or future access roads; and
         i.   Specifications and dimensions for areas of proposed wetland
alteration.
   (c)   Expiration. All permits issued under the authority of this chapter
shall expire one year from the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-31)
§ 13-3-32 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FOR WETLAND AREAS.
   (a)   Application. Any use listed as a conditional use in this chapter shall
be permitted only after an application has been submitted to the Zoning
Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, and a
conditional use permit has been granted by the Board of Appeals, following the
procedures in §
13-3-36(c), (d), and (e) for hearing and deciding appeals.
   (b)   Conditions. Upon consideration of the permit application and the
standards applicable to the permitted uses in §
13-3-23(c), the Board of Appeals shall attach such conditions to a conditional
use permit in addition to those required elsewhere in this chapter, as are
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter as listed in §
13-3-2. Such conditions may include specifications for, without limitation
because of specific enumeration: type of shore cover; erosion potential;
increased side yard setbacks; specific sewage disposal and water supply
facilities; landscaping and planting screens; period of operation; operational
control; sureties; deed restrictions; location of piers, docks, parking areas,
and signs; and type of construction. To secure information upon which to base
its determination, the Board of Appeals may require the applicant to furnish,
in addition to the information required for a zoning permit, other pertinent
information which is necessary to determine if the proposed use is consistent
with the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-32)
§ 13-3-33 FEES.
   The Village Board, by resolution, shall establish fees for the following.
   (a)   Zoning permits.
   (b)   Public hearings.
   (c)   Legal notice publications.
   (d)   Conditional use permits.
   (e)   Rezoning petitions.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-33)
§ 13-3-34 RECORDING.
   Where a zoning permit or conditional use permit is approved, an appropriate
record shall be made by the Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected
official, as appropriate, of the land use and structures permitted.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-34)
§ 13-3-35 REVOCATION.
   Where the conditions of a zoning permit or conditional use permit are
violated, the permit shall be revoked by the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-35)
§ 13-3-36 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (a)   Appointment. The Village President shall appoint a Board of Appeals
under
Title 2, Chapter 4 of this code of ordinances and Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(e),
consisting of five members subject to confirmation by the Village Board. The
Board of Appeals shall adopt rules for the conduct of the business of the Board
of Appeals as required by Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(e)3.
   (b)   Powers and duties. The Board of Appeals shall:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement or administration of this chapter;
      (2)   Hear and decide applications for conditional use permits under this
chapter; and
      (3)   May authorize, upon appeal, a variance from the dimensional
standards of this chapter where an applicant convincingly demonstrates:
         a.   Literal enforcement of the terms of the chapter will result in
unnecessary hardship for the applicant;
         b.   The hardship is due to special conditions unique to the property,
and is not self-created or based solely on economic gain or loss;
         c.   Such variance is not contrary to the public interest as expressed
by the purpose of this chapter; and
         d.   Such variance will not grant or increase any use of property
which is prohibited in the zoning district.
   (c)   Appeals to the board. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by
any person aggrieved or by an officer, department, board, or bureau of the
community affected by any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as appropriate, or
other administrative official. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Appeals, a notice of appeal
specifying the reasons, therefor. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest
elected official, as appropriate, or other official from whom the appeal is
taken shall transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record on
which the appeal action was taken.
   (d)   Public hearings.
      (1)   Before making a decision on an appeal, the Board of Appeals shall,
within a reasonable period of time, hold a public hearing. The Board shall give
public notice of the hearing by publishing a Class 2 notice under Wis. Stats.
Chapter 985, specifying the date, time, and place of the hearing and the
matters to come before the Board. At the public hearing, any party may appear
in person, by agent, or by attorney and present testimony.
      (2)   A copy of such notice shall be mailed to the parties in interest
and the appropriate district office of the Department at least ten days prior
to all public hearings on issues involving shoreland-wetland zoning.
   (e)   Decisions.
      (1)   The final disposition of an appeal, or application for a
conditional use permit, to the Board of Appeals shall be in the form of a
written decision, made within a reasonable time after the public hearing,
signed by the Board Chairperson. Such decision shall state the specific facts
which are the bases of the Board’s determination, and shall either affirm,
reverse, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed,
in whole or in part, dismiss the appeal for lack of jurisdiction or
persecution, or grant the application for a conditional use.
      (2)   A copy of such decision shall be mailed to the parties in interest
and the appropriate district office of the Department within ten days after the
decision is issued.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-36)
§ 13-3-37 AMENDING SHORELAND-WETLAND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The Village Board may, from time to time, alter, supplement or change the
district boundaries and the regulations contained in this chapter in accordance
with the requirements of Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(d)2, Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter
NR 117, and the following:
   (a)   A copy of each proposed text or map amendment shall be submitted to
the appropriate office of the Department of Natural Resources within five days
of the submission of the proposed amendment to the Village Planning Agency.
   (b)   All proposed text and map amendments to the shoreland-wetland zoning
regulations shall be referred to the Municipal Planning Agency, and a public
hearing shall be held as required by Wis. Stats. § 62.23(7)(d)2. The
appropriate office of the Department of Natural Resources shall be provided
with written notice of the public hearing at least ten days prior to such
hearing.
   (c)   In order to ensure that the shoreland protection objectives in Wis.
Stats. § 281.31, will be accomplished by the amendment, the Village Board may
not rezone a wetland in a shoreland-wetland zoning district, or any portion
thereof, where the proposed rezoning may result in a significant adverse impact
upon any of the following:
      (1)   Storm and floodwater storage capacity;
      (2)   Maintenance of dry season stream flow or the discharge of
groundwater to a wetland, the recharge of groundwater from a wetland to another
area, or the flow of groundwater through a wetland;
      (3)   Filtering or storage of sediments, nutrients, heavy metals, or
organic compounds that would otherwise drain into navigable waters;
      (4)   Shoreline protection against soil erosion;
      (5)   Fish spawning, breeding, nursery, or feeding grounds;
      (6)   Wildlife habitat; or
      (7)   Areas of special recreational scenic or scientific interest,
including scarce wetland types and habitat of endangered species.
   (d)   Where the appropriate office of the DNR determines that a proposed
rezoning may have a significant adverse impact upon any of the criteria listed
in subsection (c) above, the DNR shall so notify the village of its
determination either prior to or during the public hearing held on the proposed
amendment.
   (e)   The appropriate district office of the Department shall be provided
with:
      (1)   A copy of the recommendations and report, if any, of the municipal
planning agency on the proposed text or map amendment within ten days after the
submission of those recommendations to the Village Board; and
      (2)   Written notice of the Village Board’s action on the proposed text
or map amendment within ten days after the action is taken.
   (f)   If the Department notifies the municipal planning agency in writing
that a proposed amendment may have a significant adverse impact upon any of the
criteria listed in subsection (c) above, that proposed amendment, if approved
by the Village Board, may not become effective until more than 30 days have
elapsed since written notice of the Village Board approval was mailed to the
Department, as required by subsection (e) above. If, within the 30-day period,
the Department notifies the Village Board that the Department intends to adopt
a superseding shoreland-wetland zoning ordinance for the village under Wis.
Stats. §§ 62.231(6) and 61.351(6), the proposed amendment may not become
effective until the ordinance adoption procedure under Wis. Stats. §§ 62.231(6)
and 61.351(6) is completed or otherwise terminated.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-37)
§ 13-3-38 THROUGH 13-3-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE E: PENALTIES; DEFINITIONS
§ 13-3-40 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   Any development, building, or structure or accessory building or structure
constructed, altered, added to, modified, rebuilt, or replaced, or any use or
accessory use established after the effective date of this chapter in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, by any person, firm, association, or
corporation (including building contractors or their agents) shall be deemed a
violation. The Zoning Administrator, Clerk, and highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall refer violations to the Village Board and the Village
Attorney who shall prosecute such violations. Any person, firm, association, or
corporation who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a forfeiture as specified in §
1-1-6, together with the taxable costs of such action. Each day of continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense. Every violation of this chapter
is a public nuisance and the creation thereof may be enjoined and the
maintenance thereof may be abated by action at suit of the village, the state,
or any citizen thereof pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 87.30(2).
(Prior Code, § 13-3-40)
§ 13-3-41 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of administering and enforcing this chapter, the terms
or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows: Words used in the present
tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural
number; and words in the plural number include the singular number. The word
SHALL is mandatory, not permissive. All distances unless otherwise specified
shall be measured horizontally.
   (b)   The following terms used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A detached subordinate structure or a use
which is clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, the
principal structure or use to which it is related and which is located on the
same lot as that of the principal structure or use.
      BOATHOUSE. As defined in Wis. Stats. § 30.121(1), a permanent structure
used for the storage of watercraft and associated materials, and includes all
structures which are totally enclosed, have roofs or walls, or any combination
of structural parts.
      CLASS 2 PUBLIC NOTICE. Publication of a public hearing notice under Wis.
Stats. Chapter 985, in a newspaper of circulation in the affected area.
Publication is required on two consecutive weeks, the last at least seven days
prior to the hearing.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is permitted by this chapter, provided that
certain conditions specified in the chapter are met and that a permit is
granted by the Board of Appeals or, where appropriate, the planning agency
designated by the municipal governing body.
      DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Natural Resources.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures, or
accessory structures; the construction of additions or substantial alterations
to buildings, structures, or accessory structures; the placement of buildings
or structures; ditching, lagooning, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, or drilling operations; and the deposition or extraction of earthen
materials.
      DRAINAGE SYSTEM. One or more artificial ditches, tile drains, or similar
devices which collect surface runoff or groundwater and convey it to a point of
discharge.
      ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL FACILITY. Any facility, temporary or permanent,
which is reasonably expected to abate, reduce, or aid in the prevention,
measurement, control, or monitoring of noise, air, or water pollutants, solid
waste and thermal pollution, radiation, or other pollutants, including
facilities installed principally to supplement or to replace existing property
or equipment not meeting or allegedly not meeting acceptable pollution control
standards or which are to be supplemented or replaced by other pollution
control facilities.
      FIXED HOUSEBOAT. As defined in Wis. Stats. § 30.121(1), a structure not
actually used for navigation which extends beyond the ordinary high-water mark
of a navigable waterway and is retained in place either by cables to the
shoreline, or by anchors or spudpoles attached to the bed of the waterway.
      NAVIGABLE WATERS. Lake Superior, Lake Michigan, all natural inland lakes
within the state, and all streams, ponds, sloughs, flowages, and other waters
within the territorial limits of the state, including the state portion of
boundary waters, which are navigable under the laws of the state. Under Wis.
Stats. § 281.31(2)(d), notwithstanding any other provision of law or
administrative rule promulgated thereunder, shoreland ordinances required under
Wis. Stats. §§ 62.351 and 62.221 and Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 117, do not
apply to lands adjacent to farm drainage ditches if:
         a.   Such lands are not adjacent to a natural navigable stream or
river;
         b.   The parts of such drainage ditches adjacent to such lands were
not navigable streams before ditching; and
         c.   Such lands are maintained in nonstructural agricultural use.
      ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK. The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction, or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized
characteristic.
      PLANNING AGENCY. The Plan Commission created under Wis. Stats. § 62.23
(1).
      SHORELANDS. Lands within the following distances from the ordinary high-
water mark of navigable waters; 1,000 feet from a lake, pond, or flowage, and
300 feet from a river or stream or to the landward side of the floodplain,
whichever distance is greater.
      SHORELAND-WETLAND DISTRICT. The zoning district, created in this
shoreland-wetland zoning ordinance, comprised of shorelands that are designated
as wetlands on the wetlands inventory maps which have been adopted and made a
part of this chapter as described in §
13-3-11.
      UNNECESSARY HARDSHIP. The circumstance where special conditions, which
were not self-created, affect a particular property and make strict conformity
with the restrictions governing area, setbacks, frontage, height, or density
unnecessarily burdensome or unreasonable in light of the purpose of this
chapter.
      VARIANCE. An authorization granted by the Board of Appeals to construct,
alter, or use a building or structure in a manner that deviates from the
dimensional standards of this chapter.
      WETLAND ALTERATION. Any filling, flooding, draining, dredging, ditching,
tiling, excavating, temporary water level stabilization measures, or dike and
dam construction in a wetland area.
      WETLANDS. Those areas where water is at, near or above the land surface
long enough to support aquatic or hydrophytic vegetation, and which have soils
indicative of wet conditions.
(Prior Code, § 13-3-41)
CHAPTER 4: REZONINGS
Section
   
13-4-1   Rezoning—September 21, 1992
   
13-4-2   Rezoning—October 19, 1992
   
13-4-3   Rezoning—March 15, 1993
   
13-4-4   Rezoning—March 20, 1995
   
13-4-5   Rezoning—May 15, 1995
   
13-4-6   Rezoning—December 18, 1995
   
13-4-7   Rezoning—March 18, 1996
   
13-4-8   Rezoning—June 17, 1996
   
13-4-9   Rezoning—September 16, 1996
   
13-4-10   Rezoning—June 15, 1998
   
13-4-11   Rezoning—August 17, 1998
   
13-4-12   Rezoning—September 21, 1998
   
13-4-13   Rezoning—September 21, 1998
   
13-4-14   Rezoning—January 15, 2001
   
13-4-15   Rezoning—March 19, 2001
   
13-4-16   Rezoning—September 16, 2002
   
13-4-17   Rezoning—September 15, 2003
   
13-4-18   Rezoning—April 21, 2003
   
13-4-19   Rezoning—March 15, 2004
   
13-4-20   Rezoning—September 20, 2004
§ 13-4-1 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 21, 1992.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Roger Parkin is the owner of land located in a Conservancy District
under the zoning code and zoning map of the village, said land being described
as follows:
 
That part of the E 1/2-S.W. 30-34-12, in the Village of Turtle Lake, lying
northerly of U.S. Hwy. 8, except 13 CSM 82 and except 12 CSM 98, Barron County,
Wisconsin.”
 
      (2)   On August 2, 1992 the owner filed an application to rezone said
land to zoning district B-1 General Commercial District.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on August 18, 1992, for the
purpose of reviewing said application.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on September 10, 1992, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment on said proposed change and
for the Plan Commission to make its final recommendation.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that said rezoning be allowed,
there being no public objections.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from Conservancy
to the B-1 Commercial District.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be changed to show said change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last to occur
of all of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-1)
§ 13-4-2 REZONING—OCTOBER 19, 1992.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Buffalo Brothers Real Estate Management, a partnership, is the
owner of land located in a Conservancy District under the zoning code and
zoning map of the village, said land being described as follows:
“A part of the Southwest quarter of the Northeast quarter (SW 1/4 of NE 1/4)
31-34-14, in the Village of Turtle Lake, Barron County, Wisconsin, described as
follows:
From the Northwest corner of said SW-NE, thence along the North and South
quarter line, 334.6 feet to the South line of a town road now known as Logan
Avenue;
Thence running east along the South line of said town road, 533 feet;
Thence South, parallel to said North and South quarter line, 150 feet to the
point of beginning;
Thence South, parallel to the North and South quarter line, 64 feet;
Thence East, parallel to said town road to the West line of the railway right-
of-way;
Thence running Southerly along the West line of the railway right-of-way to the
South line of said SW-NE;
Thence running West to the Southwest corner of said SW-NE;
Thence North along the North and South quarter line to a point 150 feet South
of said town road;
Thence East, parallel to said town road to the point of beginning.
 
      (2)   On September 2, 1992, the owner filed an application to rezone said
land to zoning district R-4 Multi-Family District.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on October 7, 1992, for the
purpose of reviewing said application.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on October 19, 1992, a public hearing
was held for the purpose of public comment on said proposed change and for the
Plan Commission to make its final recommendation.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that said rezoning be allowed,
there being no public objections thereto.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from Conservancy
to the R-4 Multi-Family District.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be changed to show said change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last to occur
of all of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-2)
§ 13-4-3 REZONING—MARCH 15, 1993.
   (a)   Description. Bob Prosser is the owner of land located in a Conservancy
District under the Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map of the Village of Turtle
Lake, said land being described as follows:
A part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (NW 1/4-SE 1/4) in the
Village of Turtle Lake, Barron County, Wisconsin, further described in Deeds
#142, Page 163, Parcel #226A, Plat #14-4; having approximate dimensions of 760
feet on the West line, 200 feet on the North line, by 540 feet on the East
line, and 520 feet on the South line.
   (b)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   On October 15, 1992, the owner, through his agent, filed an
application to rezone said land to zoning of B-2 Highway Commercial.
      (2)   The Plan Commission for the village met on November 9, 1992, for
the purpose of reviewing said application, and then recommended the rezoning
request be allowed and forwarded said recommendation to the Village Board.
      (3)   At the Village Board meeting on March 15, 1993, a public hearing
was held for the purpose of public comment on said proposed change.
      (4)   The Plan Commission recommended that said rezoning be allowed and
there was no public objection to said rezoning.
   (c)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from Conservancy
to B-2 Highway Commercial;
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change; and
      (3)   This section shall be effective upon the last to occur of all the
following:
         a.   Publication of this section;
         b.   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
         c.   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-3)
§ 13-4-4 REZONING—MARCH 20, 1995.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The village is owner of land located in recently annexed Polk
County agriculturally zoned property, being further described as follows:
 
Commencing at the NE-NE corner of Section 36, T 34 N, R 15 W; thence S 0 00’ 46” W along
the east line of NE Quarter of said Section 36, 129.71 feet to a 3/4 inch rebar on the
south right-of-way of U.S. Highway 8 which is the POB; thence S 0 00’ 46” W along said
east line, 494 feet to a 3/4” rebar; thence S 89 33’ 26” E along said south line 500.60’
to a 3/4” rebar; thence SOI’ 32” W along said west line 510 feet to a 3/4” rebar; thence
N 89 33’ 26” W along said north line 250.5 feet to the point of beginning.
 
      (2)   On February 14, 1995 the Village Plan Commission met and
recommended to the Village Board that the zoning be established as B-2 Highway
Commercial.
      (3)   At the Village Board meeting on March 20th, 1995 a public hearing
was held for the purpose of public comment on the proposed zoning.
      (4)   The Plan Commission recommended that the zoning be allowed and
there was no pertinent objection to the zoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned. Now, therefore be it ordained and enacted that:
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is zoned B-2 Highway
Commercial; and
      (2)   The official village zoning shall be changed to show said change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last to occur
of all the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map a duly certified and attested
certificate of zoning.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-4)
§ 13-4-5 REZONING—MAY 15, 1995.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The village is owner of land located in recently annexed Polk
County agriculturally zoned property, being further described as follows:
 
Commencing at the Northeast-Northeast corner of Section 36, T34N, R15W; thence S 0°
00’ 46” West along the East line of the Northeast quarter of said Section 36, 79.71
feet to a 3/4 inch rebar on the South right-of-way of U.S. Highway 8, which is the
point of beginning (P.O.B.); thence continuing S 0° 00’ 46” West along said East
line, 494.00 feet to a 3/4 inch rebar; thence S 0° 01’ 55” West along said East
line, 740.72 feet to a 2-1/2 inch iron pipe at the Southeast corner of said
Northeast-Northeast; thence in N 89° 40’ 43” West along the South line of said
Northeast-Northeast (and the North line of C.S.M. V.4, P.145), 1333.14 feet to a 3/
4 inch rebar at the Southwest corner of said Northeast-Northeast; thence N 0° 01’
40” West along the West line of said Northeast-Northeast, 1252.05 feet to a 3/4 inch
rebar on the South right-of-way of said U.S. Highway 8; thence N 83° 40’ 30” East
along said right-of-way, 4.98 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar; thence S 89 33’ 21” East
along said right-of-way, 300.03 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar; thence N 81° 57’ 49” East
along said right-of-way, 101.26 feet to a 3/4 inch rebar; thence N 89° 34’ 26” East
along said right-of-way, 30.50 feet to a 1-1/2 inch iron pipe on the West line of
that parcel described in records V.487, P.369; thence S 0° 15’ 44” East along said
West line, 149.85 feet to a 1 inch iron pipe; thence N 89° 37’ 07” East along the
South line of said V.487, P.369, 49.19 feet to a 1-1/2 inch iron pipe; thence S 89°
18’ 16” East along the South line of that parcel described in records V.195, P.132,
298.15 feet to a 1-1/2 inch iron pipe; thence in N 0° 06’ 09” East along the East
line of said V.195, P.132, 150.31 feet to a 1 inch iron pipe on the South right-of-
way of said U.S. Highway 8; thence S 88° 41’ 37” East along said right-of-way, 21.23
feet to a steel right-of-way marker; thence S 73° 00’ 57” East along said right-of-
way, 103.91 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar; thence S 89° 30’ 06” East along said right-of-
way, 429.67 feet to the P.O.B. said parcel contains 1,617,224 square feet (37.1264
acres), more or less. Said parcel subject to all easements, restrictions, and
reservations of record.
 
      (2)   On April 4th, 1995 the Village Plan Commission met and recommended
to the Village Board that the zoning be established as B-2 Highway Commercial
District.
      (3)   At the Village Board meeting on May 15th, 1995 a public hearing was
held for the purpose of public comment on the proposed zoning.
      (4)   The Plan Commission recommended that the zoning be allowed and
there was no pertinent objection to the zoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is zoned B-2 Highway
Commercial District.
      (2)   The official village zoning shall be changed to show said change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last to occur
of all the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map a duly certified and attested
certificate of zoning.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-5)
§ 13-4-6 REZONING—DECEMBER 18, 1995.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The village has annexed Polk County Agriculturally-zoned property
owned by Donovan and Beverly Niemann, and Phyllis Lowe, being further described
as follows:
 
The Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE1/4, NW1/4) and the Northwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4, NW1/4) Section 36 Township 34 North,
Range 15 West except the rights-of-way of U.S. Highways 8 and 63 described in
Volume 138 of Deeds, page 599, Document No. 210635, Volume 181 of Deeds, page
619, Document No. 275771 and in Volume 524 of Records, page 242, Document No.
463075 in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County, Wisconsin; and
The Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter (NW1/4, NE 1/4), Section 36
Township 34 North, Range 15 West except the rights-of-way of U.S. Highways 8
and 63 described in Volume 142 of Deeds, page 96, Document No. 211327 and
Volume 531 of Records, page 859, Document No. 467833 all in the Office of the
Register of Deeds for Polk County, Wisconsin.
 
      (2)   On October 17th, 1995 the Village Plan Commission met and
recommended to the Village Board that the zoning be established as B-2 Highway
Commercial.
      (3)   At the Village Board meeting on December 18th, 1995 a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment on the proposed zoning.
      (4)   The Plan Commission recommended that the zoning be allowed and
there was no pertinent objection to the zoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is zoned B-2 Highway
Commercial.
      (2)   The official Village Zoning Map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   This section shall be effective upon the last to occur of all the
following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map a duly certified and attested
certificate of zoning.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-6)
§ 13-4-7 REZONING—MARCH 18, 1996.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The Cumberland Clinic (known as the “TL Medical Clinic”) of land
located in an R-2 Residential District as indicated by the zoning map of the
village, said land being described as follows:
 
That part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4-NW1/4) in
the Village of Turtle Lake, Barron County, Wisconsin, further described in and
shown in Certified Survey Map Volume 14, Page 102, unplatted, Village of Turtle
Lake.
 
      (2)   On February 8th, 1996, the owner, through his agent, Michael R.
Nelli, filed an application to rezone said land to a zoning classification of
B-l General Commercial.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on February 15th, 1996, for
the purpose of reviewing said application, and then recommended the rezoning
request be allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on March 18th, 1996, a public hearing
was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
there being no public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein shall be and hereby is rezoned from R-
2 Residential to B-l General Commercial.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last to occur
of all the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3) Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and attested
certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-7)
§ 13-4-8 REZONING—JUNE 17, 1996.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Leah Walker is owner of land located in an R-4 Residentially zoned
district as indicated by the zoning map of the village, said land being
described as follows:
 
Lot 13, Block 7, Railway Addition, Panel number 93, Computer number 186-1134-
30, Village of Turtle Lake, Wisconsin.
 
      (2)   On May 28, 1996, the owner, Leah Walker, filed an application to
rezoning said land to a zoning classification of B-1 General Commercial.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on June 3, 1996, for the
purpose of reviewing said application, and then recommended the zoning change
be allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on June 17, 1996, a public hearing was
held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there was one public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from R-
4 Residential District to B-1 General Commercial District.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map;
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-8)
§ 13-4-9 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 16, 1996.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Mike Ferro is owner of land located in an R-4 Multi-Family
Residentially zoned district at 500 Pine Street South as indicated by the
official zoning map of the village said land being described as follows:
 
Commencing at the N quarter of Section 31; thence S02 degrees 20’ 20”W, 2111.68 feet to
the point of beginning; thence S87 degrees 39’ 40”E, 33 feet to East right-of-way of
Pine St. S; thence S87 degrees 39’ 40”E, 175 feet; thence N02 degrees 20’ 20”E, 171.63
feet; thence S87 degrees 39’ 40”E, 329.50 feet; thence N02 degrees 20’ 20”E, 115.60
feet to the S line of a parcel described in Volume 610, page 468; thence N88 degrees
54’ 56”E, 100.43 feet to a one inch iron pipe monument at the SE corner of said parcel;
thence N11 degrees 42’ 07”E along the west line of the former railroad right-of-way,
219.05 feet to the S right-of-way of County Highway K (Logan Ave.); thence Nil degrees
42’ 07”E, 27.99 feet, more or less to the centerline of County Rd K; thence Easterly
along said centerline, 102.54 feet, more or less, to the east line of the former
railroad right-of-way; thence 811 degrees 42’ 07” along said east right-of-way, 1044.17
feet, more or less, to the EW quarter line of Section 31; thence N89 degrees 16’ 21”W,
101.86 feet to a one-inch iron pipe monument on the West right-of-way of the former
railroad; thence N89 degrees 16’ 21”W, 475.79 feet to a one-inch iron pipe monument on
the east right-of-way of Pine St; thence N89 degrees 16’ 21”W, 33.01 feet to a one-inch
iron pipe monument at the center of Section 31; thence N02 degrees 20’ 20”E, 504.32
feet along the North-South quarter line of Section 31 to the point of beginning;
This parcel contains 10.4 acres, more or less, including lands of highway right-of-way
easement for both Pine St. and County Highway K.
 
      (2)   On August 27, 1996, the owner’s agent, Allen Carlson, filed an
application to rezone described lands from an R-4 Multi-Family Residential
zoning classification to MH-1 Mobile Home Park District.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on September 10, 1996, for
the purpose of reviewing said application, and then recommended the zoning
change be allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on September 16, 1996, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the rezoning be allowed and
there were no public objections to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from R-4 Multi-
Family Residential to the MH-1 Mobile Home District.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last to occur
of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-9)
§ 13-4-10 REZONING—JUNE 15, 1998.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Kenneth and Judith Ahlberg are owners of land located in a
Conservancy zoned district as indicated by the zoning map of the village, said
land be further described as follows:
 
Computer Number 186-8023-08-001, Plat 9-6 and 10-2, Part of the NW-SW and NE-SW
shown as lot #1, CSM 21/102. 575 West Town Line Road, Village of Turtle Lake,
Barron County, Wisconsin.
 
      (2)   On April 23, 1998, the owners, Ken and Judith Ahlberg, filed an
application to rezone said land to a zoning classification of B-1 General
Commercial District.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on June 1, 1998, for the
purpose of reviewing said application, and then recommended the zoning change
be allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on June 15, 1998, a public hearing was
held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there was no public objection to the rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from Conservancy
District to B-1 General Commercial District.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-10)
§ 13-4-11 REZONING—AUGUST 17, 1998.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Timothy Nolde is owner of land located in a B-2 Highway
Commercially zoned district at 650 Industrial Street as indicated by the
official zoning map of the village, said land being described as follows:
 
Polk County Certified Map number 2489, part of Lot 3 of CSM Volume 8, page 159,
located in part of the NE quarter to NE quarter, section 36, T34N-R15W, Village
of Turtle Lake. Further described as document number 569727, Volume 11, page
197, Village of Turtle Lake, Polk County.
 
      (2)   On June 26, 1998, Mr. Tim Nolde filed an application to rezone said
land to a zoning classification of R-4 Multi-family Residential.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on August 5, 1998, for the
purpose of reviewing said application, and then recommended the zoning change
be allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on August 17, 1998, a public hearing
was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there was no public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is rezoned from B-2 Highway
Commercial to R-4 Multi-family Residential.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-11)
§ 13-4-12 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 21, 1998.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Richard and Jacyln Rosenbush are owners of land located in recently
annexed and temporarily zoned B-2 Highway Commercial district north of U.S.
Highway 8 and 63, Polk County, and said land being further described as
follows:
 
The S half of SE quarter except parcel recorded in Volume 335 Records, page 600,
Document No. 345130 (right-of-way of U.S. Highway 8) and parcel recorded in
Volume 376 Records, page 691, Document No. 364514 (right-of-way of Polk County
Trunk Highway “T”), Section 25 Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County, Wisconsin.
 
      (2)   On August 24, 1998, the village appealed for a permanent zoning
classification of B-2 Highway Commercial.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on September 3, 1998, for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on September 21, 1998, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there was no public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned B-
2 Highway Commercial.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-12)
§ 13-4-13 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 21, 1998.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Dan and Ruth Michaelson and the village are owners of land located
in recently annexed and temporarily zoned B-2 Highway Commercial district south
of U.S. Highway 8 and 63, Polk County, and said land being further described as
follows:
 
Lot 1 and Outlot 1 of that certified survey map recorded in Volume 11 of
Certified Survey Maps on page 46 Document Number 561362 in the office of
Register of Deeds in and for Polk County, Wisconsin, being a part of the NE
quarter of the NE quarter of Section 36, Township 34, Range 15 W, Polk County,
Wisconsin.
 
      (2)   On August 24, 1998, the village appealed for a permanent zoning
classification of B-2 Highway Commercial.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on September 3, 1998 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting on September 21, 1998, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed
and there was no public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned B-
2 Highway Commercial.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-13)
§ 13-4-14 REZONING—JANUARY 15, 2001.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The village is the owner of land located near the intersection of
Industrial Street and Western Blvd, in the village, Polk County, and currently
zoned B-2 Highway Commercial, and said land is further described as follows:
 
Lot 3 of that Certified Survey Map #1972 recorded in Volume 8, page 159,
Document #541256 in the office of Register of Deeds in and for Polk County,
Wisconsin, being a part of the NE quarter of the NE quarter of Section 36,
Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County, Wisconsin.
 
      (2)   On January 2, 2001, the village appealed for a permanent zoning
classification of Industrial.
      (3)   The Planning Commission for the village met on January 11, 2001 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting held on January 15, 2001, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there was one public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned
Industrial.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-14)
§ 13-4-15 REZONING—MARCH 19, 2001.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Joe and Debbie Johnston, doing business as Turtle Hills
Partnership, is the owner of land identified by computer numbers 186-8001-11,
186-8001-22, 186-8069-02, 186-8069-05, 186-8069-08, 186-8069-10, and formerly
known as the Hathaway and Elmer Nelson, Sr. (210 Poplar St. No.) properties and
located in the village, Barron County, and currently zoned Conservancy, and
said land further described as follows:
 
29-34N-14W, Plat 11-1, prt SW-SW, lyg N of row of Soo Rlwy ex d’s 105/423 116/29
121/379 121/495 121/534 103-31 d’s 125/226 134/170 CSM 6/91 CSM 8/31 also ex N 60
ft of pci desc in d’s 121/363 and ext 536/546 and 537/736.
29-34N-14W, SE-SW ex RR RW unplatted, Village of Turtle Lake.
32-34N-14W, NE-NW unplatted, Village of Turtle Lake.
32-34N-14W, Plat 7-2, prt Southwest to Northwest desc in d’s 91 pg 619 lyg N of
HWY K ex lot 3 CSM 13, pg 88, unplatted, Village of Turtle Lake.
32-34N-14W, Plat 8-1, SE-NW lyg North and East of Old HWY K, unplatted, Village
of Turtle Lake.
32-34N-14W, Plat 8-3, that prt of SE-NW 1lyg & being between old HWY K and new
HWY K, unplatted, Village of Turtle Lake.
 
      (2)   On February 7, 2001, Joseph Johnston appeared before the Barron
County Highway Committee, and said Committee granted Joseph Johnston
conditional driveway access off of CTH K between Lots 24 and 25, and Lot 32 and
Lot 19 must state county vision triangle requirements in deed description.
      (3)   On February 20, 2001, Joseph Johnston appealed for a permanent
zoning classification of Country Estate Residential.
      (4)   The Plan Commission for the village met on March 8, 2001 for the
purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (5)   At the Village Board meeting held on March 19, 2001, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (6)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there were six public objections to said rezoning.
   (b)   Properly rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned
Country Estate Residential.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with official zoning map of a duly certified and attested
certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-15)
§ 13-4-16 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 16, 2002.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Kerry, Inc., is owner of the property identified as:
 
Part of Lots 4, 5, 6, and 7 of Block 9, Lot 1 and part of Lot 2 of Block 10 of
the Railway Addition, part of vacated Spruce Street, part of vacated Railway
Avenue N, part of the NW quarter of the NE quarter and part of the NE quarter
of the NW quarter of Section 31, T34N, R14W, Village of Turtle Lake, Barron
County, Wisconsin. This property is further identified as Site 3 and the N half
of Site 4 on ALTA/ACSM Land Title Survey Map dated July 11, 2002, and signed by
Christopher J. Reimer of Mauston, Wisconsin. This property is currently zoned
R-2 Single-Family Residential and R-3 Single-Family Residential.
 
      (2)   On August 15, 2002 Kerry, Inc., appealed for a permanent zoning
classification of Industrial.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on September 12, 2002 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting held on September 16, 2002, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there were six public objections to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned
Industrial.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-16) (Ord. passed 19-16-2002)
§ 13-4-17 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 15, 2003.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Thomas C. Peterson and Delores Peterson are owners of 14.07 acres
of property identified as:
 
760 Pine Street South, 186-8047-18-011, 186-8047-17-000, 186-8047-18-001, 186-
8047-18-000, and described as plat 14-5, part of the NW to SE shown as Lot 1
CSM 17/81 unplatted, plat 14-2, N 22-1/2 RDS of that part of NW-SE lying west
of RRRW unplatted, plat 14-4 a strip of land 100 feet in width ext over and
across NW-SE of Section 31 being 50 feet in width on each side of CL of MNTRCK
of Chicago St. Paul, and plat 14-3 NW-SE lying W of RRRW except N 22-1/2 rods
THRF and EX Lot 1 CSM Vol. 17, Page 81, unplatted Section 31, Town 34 N, Range
14 W of the village, Barron County.
 
      (2)   On August 20, 2003 and August 22, 2003, Thomas C. Peterson and
Delores Peterson appealed for a permanent zoning classification of R-4 Multi-
Family Residential.
      (3)   The Plan Commission for the village met on September 8, 2003 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting held on September 15, 2003, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed,
and there was no public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned R-
4 Multi-Family Residential.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Public of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Prior Code, § 13-4-17) (Ord. passed 9-15-2003)
§ 13-4-18 REZONING—APRIL 21, 2003.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The St. Croix Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin, doing business as the
St. Croix Casino, is the owner of property identified as:
 
777 U.S. HWY 8 and 63 W and described as plats 9-1, 9-1 A-1, 9-1 A-2, 9-1 A-3,
9-1 A-4, and 12-2C of the village, Barron County.
 
      (2)   On April 4, 2003 the St. Croix Chippewa Indians of Wisconsin
appealed for a permanent zoning classification of Commercial.
      (3)   The Planning Commission for the village met on April 10, 2003 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting held on April 21, 2003, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed
and there was one public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned
Commercial.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Ord. passed 4-21-2003)
§ 13-4-19 REZONING—MARCH 15, 2004.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Todd M. Ostermann is the owner of 51 acres of property known as the
Ostermann annexation identified as 132 13-l/2-14th Avenue, and described as:
 
Parcel A: That part of the SW quarter of the NW quarter of Section 29, T34N, R14W,
in the village, Barron County, lying E of the northerly-southerly road through
said SW quarter of the NW quarter.
Parcel B: That part of the SE quarter of the NW quarter of Section 29, T34N, R14W
in the village, Barron County, described as follows: Commencing at the E quarter
corner of Section 29, thence W, along the EW quarter line, 3498.40 feet to the
point of beginning: thence N 10 degrees 59” W, 134.00 feet; thence N 62 degrees
41’25” E, 131.70 feet; thence east, parallel with the EW quarter line, 767 feet
more or less to the E line of said SW quarter of the NW quarter; thence N along
the E line of the SE quarter of the NW quarter 1,128 feet more or less to the NE
corner of said SE quarter of the NW quarter; thence W, along the N line of the SE
quarter of the NW quarter, 1,320 feet more or less to the NW corner of said SE
quarter of the NW quarter; thence S, along the W line of the SE quarter if the NW
quarter; thence S, along with the W line of the SE quarter of the NW 1,329 feet
more or less to the SW corner of said SE quarter of the NE thence E, along the EW
quarter line, 462 feet more or less to the point of beginning.
 
      (2)   On February 27, 2004 Biermann Homes acting as agent for Todd M.
Ostermann appealed for a permanent zoning classification of PUD-Planned Unit
Development.
      (3)   The Planning Commission for the village met on March 1, 2004 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then recommended the zoning change be
allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting held on March 15, 2004, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Plan Commission recommended that the said rezoning be allowed
and there was no public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned PUD-
Planned Unit Development.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2004)
§ 13-4-20 REZONING—SEPTEMBER 20, 2004.
   (a)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   Richard E. and Linda M. Phillips are the owner of 40 acres of
property identified as:
 
730 U.S. HWY 8 and 63 and described as computer tax ID # 168-00044-0000 and
that part of the NW quarter of the NE quarter of Section 36, T34N, R15W, in the
village, Polk County.
 
      (2)   On August 6, 2004 Richard E. Phillips appealed for a permanent
zoning classification of MH-1 Mobile Home Park.
      (3)   The Planning Commission for the village met on August 9, 2004 for
the purpose of reviewing said appeal, and then on a tie vote recommended the
zoning change be allowed and forwarded for public hearing before the Village
Board.
      (4)   At the Village Board meeting held on September 20, 2004, a public
hearing was held for the purpose of public comment regarding said zoning
change.
      (5)   The Planning Commission on a tie vote recommended that the said
rezoning be allowed and there was public objection to said rezoning.
   (b)   Property rezoned.
      (1)   The land described herein be and hereby is permanently zoned MH-
1 Mobile Home Park.
      (2)   The official village zoning map shall be changed to show said
change.
   (c)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon the last
occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Publication of this section;
      (2)   Recording of the change on the official zoning map; and
      (3)   Filing with the official zoning map of a duly certified and
attested certificate describing the change.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 5: ANNEXATIONS
Section
   
13-5-1   Annexation—November 21, 1994
   
13-5-2   Annexation—September 18, 1995
   
13-5-3   Annexation—June 15, 1998
   
13-5-4   Annexation—August 17, 1998
   
13-5-5   Annexation—February 15, 1999
   
13-5-6   Annexation—February 15, 1999
   
13-5-7   Annexation—March 25,1999
   
13-5-8   Annexation—November 18, 2002
   
13-5-9   Annexation—November 3, 2003
   
13-5-10   Annexation—September 19, 2011
   
13-5-11   Annexation—Amend March 2012
   
13-5-12   Annexation—August 21, 2017
   
13-5-13   Annexation—May 4, 2023
   
Attachment A   Resolution 1994-08 Annexation Resolution
   
Attachment B   Resolution 1994-13 Annexation Resolution
   
Attachment C   Resolution 1998-4 Annexation Resolution
   
Attachment D   Resolution 1998-8 Annexation Resolution
   
Attachment E   Resolution 1999-1 Annexation Resolution
   
Attachment F   Resolution 1999-2 Annexation Resolution
   
Attachment G   Resolution 1999-5 Annexation Resolution
§ 13-5-1 ANNEXATION—NOVEMBER 21, 1994.
   (a)   A petition for the annexation of certain lands described in the
attachment hereto was filed by Richard A. and Jaclyn L. Rosenbush on or about
November 7,1994.
   (b)   Appropriate service of said petition was made on the Clerk for the
village in Barron County and for the Clerk for the Town of Beaver in Polk
County.
   (c)   Appropriate notice was sent to the Department of Administration for
the state.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the annexation of said land is
in the best interest of the citizens of the village.
   (e)   The real estate described as follows hereto be and hereby is annexed
to the village and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County, Wisconsin.
 
The NE quarter of the NE quarter of Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W in the Town of
Beaver, Polk County, Wisconsin except:
      (a)   That parcel of land described in Volume 195 of Records, page 132, Document
No. 282512 in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County;
      (b)   That parcel of land described in Volume 487 of Records, page 369, Document
No. 439547 in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County; and
      (c)   Those parcels of land comprising the right-of-way of U.S. Highway 8
described in the following documents of records in the Office of the Register of Deeds
for Polk County:
         (i)   Volume 186 of Records, page 8, Document No. 275822;
         (ii)   Volume 234 of Records, page 123, Document No. 300249; and
         (iii)   Volume 535 of Records, page 362, Document No. 470078.
 
(Prior Code, § 13-5-1)
§ 13-5-2 ANNEXATION—SEPTEMBER 18, 1995.
   (a)   A petition for the annexation of certain lands described in the
attachment hereto was filed by Phyllis E. Lowe and Donovan, Beverly, and Lisa
Niemann on August 21,1995.
   (b)   Appropriate service of said petition was made on the Clerk for the
village in Barron County and for the Clerk for the Town of Beaver in Polk
County.
   (c)   Appropriate notice was sent to the Department of Administration for
the state.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the annexation of said lands is
in the best interest of the citizens of the village.
   (e)   The real estate described as follows is hereby annexed to the village
and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County.
 
The Northeast quarter of the NW quarter and the NW quarter of the NW quarter,
Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W except the rights-of-way of U.S. Highways
8 and 63 described in Volume 138 of Deeds, page 599, Document No. 210635,
Volume 181 of Deeds, page 619, Document No. 275771, and in Volume 524 of
Records, 242, Document No. 463075 in the Office of the Register of Deeds for
Polk County.
AND
The Northwest quarter of the NE quarter, Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W
except the rights-of-way of U.S. Highways 8 and 63 described in Volume 142 of
Deeds, page 96, Document No. 211327 and Volume 531 of Records, page 859,
Document No. 467833 all in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County.
 
(Prior Code, § 13-5-2)
§ 13-5-3 ANNEXATION—JUNE 15, 1998.
   (a)   A petition for the annexation of certain lands described in the
attachment hereto was filed by Richard A. Rosenbush and Jaclyn L. Rosenbush,
and Thomas Dominick and Nancee Dominick on May 12, 1998.
   (b)   Appropriate service of said petition was made on the Clerk of the
village, Barron and Polk Counties, and for the Clerk for the Town of Beaver in
Polk County.
   (c)   Appropriate notice was sent to the Department of Administration for
the state.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the annexation of said lands is
in the best interest of the citizens of the village.
   (e)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification on
said annexed lands as B-2 Highway Commercial District until the comprehensive
zoning ordinance can be amended.
   (f)   The real estate described in Attachment C is hereby annexed in the
village and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-3)
§ 13-5-4 ANNEXATION—AUGUST 17, 1998.
   (a)   The village wishes to annex lands it owns, and an attached town island
in the Town of Beaver, Polk County.
   (b)   Said lands are further described as follows:
 
Lot 1 and Outlot 1 of that certified survey map recorded in Volume 11 of
Certified Survey Maps on page 46, Document Number 561362 in the Office of
Register of Deeds in and for Polk County, being a part of the NE quarter of the
NE quarter of Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (c)   Appropriate notice was made on the Clerk of the Town of Beaver and
Clerk of the County of Polk.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the said lands are contiguous to
the village, and annexation is in the best interest of the citizens of the
village.
   (e)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification on
said annexed lands as B-2 Highway Commercial until the comprehensive zoning
ordinance can be amended.
   (f)   The real estate described above and in Attachment D be and hereby is
annexed into the village and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-4)
§ 13-5-5 ANNEXATION—FEBRUARY 15, 1999.
   (a)   A petition for the annexation of certain lands described in the
attachment hereto was filed by Daniel and Ruth Michaelson on October 21, 1998.
   (b)   Said lands are described as follows:
 
Outlot 1 of that certified survey map recorded in Volume 11 of Certified Survey
Maps on page 46, Document Number 561362 in the Office of Register of Deeds in
and for Polk County, being a part of the NE quarter of the NE quarter of
Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (c)   Appropriate notice was made on the Clerk of the Town of Beaver and
Clerk of the County of Polk.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the said lands are contiguous to
the village, and annexation is in the best interest of the citizens of the
village.
   (e)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification on
said annexed lands as B-2 Highway Commercial until the comprehensive zoning
ordinance can be amended.
   (f)   The real estate described above and Attachment E be and hereby is
annexed into the village and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-5)
§ 13-5-6 ANNEXATION—FEBRUARY 15, 1999.
   (a)   The village wishes to annex lands it owns in the Town of Beaver, Polk
County.
   (b)   Said lands are described as follows:
 
Lot 1 of that certified survey map recorded in Volume 11 of Certified Survey
Maps on page 46, Document Number 561362 in the Office of Register of Deeds in
and for Polk County, being a part of the Northeast quarter of the Northeast
quarter of Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (c)   Appropriate notice was made on the Clerk of the Town of Beaver and
Clerk of the County of Polk.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the said lands are contiguous to
the village, and annexation is in the best interest of the citizens of the
village.
   (e)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification on
said annexed lands as B-2 Highway Commercial until the comprehensive zoning
ordinance can be amended.
   (f)   The real estate described above and Attachment F be and hereby is
annexed into the village and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-6)
§ 13-5-7 ANNEXATION—MARCH 25,1999.
   (a)   A petition for the annexation of certain lands described in the
attachment hereto was filed by Donovan and Beverly Niemann on March 15, 1999.
   (b)   Said lands are described as follows:
 
The SW quarter of NE quarter, Section 36, Township 34 North, Range 15 West,
Polk County.
 
   (c)   Appropriate notice was made on the Clerk of the Town of Beaver and
Clerk of the County of Polk.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the said lands are contiguous to
the village, and annexation is in the best interest of the citizens of the
village.
   (e)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification on
said annexed lands as Agricultural/Conservancy until the comprehensive zoning
ordinance can be amended.
   (f)   The real estate described above and Attachment G be and hereby is
annexed into the village and detached from the Town of Beaver in Polk County.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-7)
§ 13-5-8 ANNEXATION—NOVEMBER 18, 2002.
   (a)   On October 21, 2002 the Village Board declared their intention to
initiate proceedings to annex in to the village corporate limits the below
described contiguous village owned property, locally known as the Boy Scout
Camp:
 
Parcel BE 375B, Section 24, Town 34 N, Range 15 W, S 200 feet of the Southeast
to Southeast described in Volume 251/347, approximately five acres in the Town
of Beaver, Polk County.
Parcel BE376A, Section 25, Town 34, Range 15, the North one-half of the NE-NE,
approximately 20 acres in the Town of Beaver, Polk County.
 
   (b)   Appropriate notice was made to the public and the Planning Commission
met on November 14, 2002, and recommended aforementioned annexation to the
Village Board.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined that annexation of the said lands is
in the best interest of the citizens of the village.
   (d)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification on
said annexed lands as C-1 Conservancy until the comprehensive zoning ordinance
can be amended.
   (e)   The real estate described above and attached hereto and hereby is
annexed in to the village, Polk County, and detached from the Town of Beaver,
Polk County.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2002)
§ 13-5-9 ANNEXATION—NOVEMBER 3, 2003.
   (a)   Todd M. Ostermann filed a petition for the direct annexation by
unanimous approval of certain lands described in the attachment hereto on
October 1, 2003.
   (b)   Said lands are described as follows:
 
Parcel A: That part of the SW quarter of the NW quarter of Section 29, T34N, R14W,
in the Town of Almena, Barron County lying East of the northerly-southerly road
through said SW quarter of the NW quarter.
Parcel B: That part of the Southeast quarter of the NW quarter of Section 29, T34N,
R14W in the town of Almena, Barron County described as follows: Commencing at the
East quarter corner of Section 29, thence West, along the EW quarter line, 3498.40
feet to the point of beginning: thence North 10 degrees 59” West, 134.00 feet;
thence N 62 degrees 41’25” E, 131.70 feet; thence east, parallel with the EW quarter
line, 767 feet more or less to the E line of said SE quarter of the NW quarter;
thence North along the E line of the SE quarter of the NW quarter 1,128 feet more or
less to the NE corner of said SE quarter of the NW thence West, along the North line
of the SE quarter if the NW quarter, 1,320 feet more or less to the NW corner of
said SE quarter of the NW quarter; thence South, along the West line of the SE
quarter if the NW thence South, along with the West line of the SE quarter of the NW
quarter, 1,329 feet more or less to the SW corner of said SE quarter of the NW
quarter; thence East, along the East-West quarter line, 462 feet more or less to the
point of beginning.
 
   (c)   Appropriate notice was made on the Clerk of the Town of Almena and
Clerk of the County of Barron.
   (d)   The Village Board has determined that the said lands are contiguous to
the village, and annexation is in the best interest of the citizens of the
village.
   (e)   The Village Board establishes a temporary zoning classification of C-
1 Conservancy until such time the comprehensive zoning ordinance can be
amended.
   (f)   The real estate described above and attached hereto be and hereby is
annexed in to the village and detached from the Town of Almena, Barron County.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2003)
§ 13-5-10 ANNEXATION—SEPTEMBER 19, 2011.
   (a)   Territory annexed. In accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.0217 and the
petition for direct annexation filed with the Village Clerk on June 21, 2011,
signed by a number of electors residing in the territory equal to at least the
majority of votes cast for governor in the territory at the last gubernatorial
elections and the owners of at least one-half of the real property in assessed
value in the territory, the following described territory in the Town of
Almena, Barron County, is annexed to the village:
 
Parcel # 002-2900-13-000: PLAT 8-2 PRT SE-NW DESC AS COM AT E lA COR SEC 29 TH
W ALG E-W QUARTER LN 3498.4 FT TO POB TH N 10 DEG W 134 FT TH N 62 DEG E 131.7
FT TH E PRL E-W QUARTER LN 767 FT +- TO E LN SD SE-NW TH S ALG E LN SD QUARTER
TO INT HWY 8 TH SWLY ALG NLY ROW USH TH W.
Section 29, Township 34N, Range 14W: Part of the SE-NW described as commencing
at the E quarter corner of Section 29, then W along the EW quarter line 3498.4
feet to the point of beginning Then N 10 degrees W 134 feet, then north 62
degrees E 131.7 feet, then E parallel to the EW quarter line 767 feet (plus or
minus) to the east line of said SE-NW, then S along the east line of SE-NW to
the intersection with Hwy 8, then southwesterly along the northerly right-of-
way of USH 8 Then west along the south forty line to the point of beginning,
except for highway described in 866/557.
 
   (b)   Effect of annexation. From and after the date of this section the
territory described in subsection (a) above shall be part of the village for
any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons coming or residing within
such territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations
governing the village.
   (c)   Temporary zoning classification.
      (1)   Upon recommendation of the Plan Commission, the territory annexed
to the village by this section is temporarily zoned as follows, pursuant to
Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(8)(a): Conservancy District.
      (2)   The Plan Commission is directed to prepare an amendment to the
zoning ordinance setting forth permanent classifications and regulations for
the zoning of the annexed area and to submit its recommendations to the Board
not later than December 31, 2011.
   (d)   Ward designation. The territory described in subsection (a) above is
hereby made a part of the Ward 1 of the village, subject to the ordinances,
rules, and regulations of the village governing wards.
   (e)   Severability. If any provision of this section is invalid or
unconstitutional, or if the application of this section to any person or
circumstances is invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the other provisions or applications of
this section which can be given effect without the invalid or unconstitutional
provision or application.
   (f)   Payment to town. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(14), the Village
Board agrees to pay annually to the Town of Almena, for five years, an amount
equal to the amount of property taxes that the town levied on the annexed
territory, as shown by the tax roll under Wis. Stats. § 70.65 in 2011.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2011)
§ 13-5-11 ANNEXATION—AMEND MARCH 2012.
   (a)   The legal description contained in §
13-5-10 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
Section 29, Township 34N, Range 14W: Part of the SE-NW described as commencing
at the E quarter corner of Section 29 then W along the EW quarter line 3498.4
feet to the point of beginning then N 10 degrees W 134 feet then N 62 degrees E
131.7 feet then E parallel to the EW quarter line 767 feet (plus or minus) to
the E line of said SE-NW then south along the E line of SE-NW to the
intersection with Hwy 8 Then southwesterly along the northerly right-of-way of
USH 8 Then west along the S 40 line to the point of beginning, except for
highway described in 866/557.
 
   (b)   In all other respects §
13-5-10 shall remain unchanged.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2012)
§ 13-5-12 ANNEXATION—AUGUST 21, 2017.
   (a)   Territory annexed. In accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.0217 and the
petition for direct annexation filed with the Village Clerk on the June 19,
2017, signed by a number of electors residing in the territory equal to at
least the majority of votes cast for governor in the territory at the last
gubernatorial elections and the owners of at least one-half of the real
property in assessed value in the territory, the following described territory
in the Town of Beaver, Polk County, is annexed to the village:
 
Parcel # 008-00943-0300 Legal Description: Lot 3, Certified Survey Map 5755,
Volume 26, Page 21, located in the SW quarter of the NE quarter and the NE
quarter of the SE quarter of Section 36, Township 34 North, Range 15 West, Town
of Beaver, Polk County.
 
   (b)   Effect of annexation. From and after the date of this section the
territory described in subsection (a) above shall be part of the village for
any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons coming or residing within
such territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations
governing the village.
   (c)   Temporary zoning classification.
      (1)   The territory annexed to the village by this section is temporarily
zoned as follows, pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(8)(a): B-1 General
Commercial District.
      (2)   The Plan Commission is directed to review the zoning designation
and, upon confirmation, to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinance setting
forth permanent classifications and regulations for the zoning of the annexed
area, and to submit its recommendations to the Board no later than December 31,
2017.
   (d)   Ward designation. The territory described in subsection (a) above is
hereby made a part of the Ward 2A of the village, subject to the ordinances,
rules, and regulations of the village governing wards.
   (e)   Severability. If any provision of this section is invalid or
unconstitutional, or if the application of this section to any person or
circumstances is invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the other provisions or applications of
this section which can be given effect without the invalid or unconstitutional
provision or application.
   (f)   Payment to town. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(14), the Village
Board agrees to pay annually to the Town of Almena, for five years, an amount
equal to the amount of property taxes that the town levied on the annexed
territory, as shown by the tax roll under Wis. Stats. § 70.65 in 2017.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2017)
§ 13-5-13 ANNEXATION—MAY 4, 2023.
   (a)   Territory annexed. In accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(2) and the
petition for direct annexation filed with the Village Clerk on May 4, 2023,
signed by all of the owners and electors residing in the territory, the
following described territory in the Town of Beaver, Polk County, Wisconsin, is
annexed to the village:
 
Parcel #008-00943-0000 Legal Description: Lot Two (2), Certified Survey Map
5755, Volume 26, Page 18, located in the NW-SE & NE-SE, of Section Thirty-six
(36), Township Thirty-four (34) North, Range Fifteen (15) West, Town of Beaver,
Polk County, Wisconsin.
 
   (b)   Effect of annexation. From and after the date of this ordinance the
territory described in division (a) above shall be part of the village for any
and all purposes provided by law and all persons coming or residing within such
territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules and regulations governing
the village.
   (c)   Temporary zoning classification.
      (1)   The territory annexed to the village by this section is temporarily
zoned as follows, pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(8)(a): B-l General
Commercial District.
      (2)   The Plan Commission is directed to review the zoning designation
and, upon confirmation, to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinance setting
forth permanent classifications and regulations for the zoning of the annexed
area and to submit its recommendations to the Board no later than December 31,
2023.
   (d)   Ward designation. The territory described in division (a) above is
hereby made apart of Ward 2 of the Village of Turtle Lake, subject to the
ordinances, rules and regulations of the village governing wards.
   (e)   Severability. If any provision of this section is invalid or
unconstitutional, or if the application of this section to any person or
circumstances is invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the other provisions or applications of
this section which can be given effect without the invalid or unconstitutional
provision or application.
   (f)   Payment to town. Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 66.0217(14), the Village
Board agrees to pay annually to the Town of Beaver, for five years, an amount
equal to the amount of property taxes that the town levied on the annexed
territory, as shown by the tax roll under Wis. Stats. § 70.65 in 2023.
   (g)   Clerk duties. The Village Clerk is directed to file and record copies
of this section as required by statute.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 7-17-2023)
ATTACHMENT A: RESOLUTION 1994-08 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   Whereas, a petition for direct annexation of the following described
territory of the Town of Beaver, Polk County was filed with the Village Clerk
on the day of November 7, 1994:
 
The Northeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 34 North,
Range 15 West in the Town of Beaver, Polk County except:
   (a)   That parcel of land described in Volume 195 of Records, page 132,
Document No. 282512 in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County;
   (b)   That parcel of land described in Volume 487 of Records, page 369,
Document No. 439547 in the Office of Register of Deeds for Polk County; and
   (c)   Those parcels of land comprising the right-of-way of U.S. Highway 8
described in the following documents of record in the Office of the Register of
Deeds for Polk County;
      (1)   Volume 186 of Records, page 8, Document No. 275822;
      (2)   Volume 234 of Records, page 123, Document No. 300249; and
      (3)   Volume 535 of Records, page 362, Document No. 470078.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated the petition and has certified
to the Village Board it was signed by the sole owners of the land described in
the petition as of the date of the filing of the petition and that the land to
be annexed is properly described in the petition and is shown on the scale map
attached thereto, is contiguous to the village and is unincorporated.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined the petition for annexation of the
above described territory is a sufficient and legal petition conforming with
the requirements of Wis. Stats. § 66.021.
   (d)   The petition for annexation be accepted and directs the Village Clerk
to notify the Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Polk County, of the acceptance of
the annexation petitions, either by personal service or registered mail, the
return receipt requested, in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.021(5)(a).
   (e)   The above described territory in subsection (a) shall be a part of the
village for any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons coming or
residing within such territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and
regulations of the village.
   (f)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinance to
set forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the
annexed territory, and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board at a
date not later than February 1, 1995.
   (g)   Date this twenty-first day of November, 1994.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment A)
ATTACHMENT B: RESOLUTION 1994-13 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   A petition for direct annexation of the following described territory
of the Town of Beaver, Polk County, was filed with the Village Clerk on August
21, 1995:
 
The NE quarter of the NW quarter and the NW quarter of the NW quarter, Section
36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W except the rights-of-way of U.S. Highways 8 and
63 described in Volume 138 of Deeds, page 599, Document No. 210635, Volume 181
of Deeds, page 619, Document No, 275771 and in Volume 524 of Records, page 242,
Document No. 463075 in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County.
AND
The NW quarter of the NE quarter, Section 36 Township 34 N, Range 15 W except
the rights-of-way of U.S. Highways 8 and 63 described in Volume 142 of Deeds,
page 96, Document No. 211327 and Volume 531 of Records, page 859, Document No.
467833 all in the Office of the Register of Deeds for Polk County.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated the petition and has certified
to the Village Board it was signed by the sole owners and all electors of the
land described in the petition as of the date of the filing of the petition and
that the land to be annexed is properly described in the petition and is shown
on the scale map attached thereto, is contiguous to the village and is
unincorporated.
   (b)   The Village Board has determined the petition for annexation of the
above described territory is a sufficient and legal petition conforming with
the requirements of Wis. Stats. § 66.021.
   (c)   The petition for annexation be accepted and directs the Village Clerk
to notify the Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Polk County, of the acceptance of
the annexation petitions, either by personal service or registered mail, the
return receipt requested, in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.021(5)(a).
   (d)   The above described territory in subsection (a) shall be a part of the
village, for any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons residing
within such territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and
regulations of the village.
   (e)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinance to
set forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the
annexed territory, and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board at a
date not later than November 1,1995.
   (f)   Dated this eighteenth day of September, 1995.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment B)
ATTACHMENT C: RESOLUTION 1998-4 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   A petition for direct annexation of the following described territory
of the Town of Beaver, Polk County was filed with the Village Clerk on May 12,
1998:
 
The S half of SE quarter except parcel recorded in Volume 335 Records, page
600, document No. 345130 (right-of-way of USHWY 8) and parcel recorded in
Volume 376 Records, page 691, Document No. 364514 (right-of-way of Polk County
Trunk Highway “T”), Section 25 Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated the petition and has certified
to the Village Board it was signed by the sole owners and all electors of the
land described in the petition as of the date of the filing of the petition,
and that the land to be annexed is properly described in the petition and is
shown on the scale map attached thereto, is contiguous to the village and is
unincorporated.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined the petition for annexation of the
above described territory is sufficient and legal petition conforming with the
requirements of Wis. Stats. § 66.021.
   (d)   Hereby resolves that the petition for annexation be accepted and
directs the Village Clerk to notify the Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Polk
County of the acceptance of the annexation petitions, either by personal
service or registered mail, the return receipt requested, in accordance with
Wis. Stats. § 66.021(5)(a).
   (e)   Be it further resolved that from and after the date of this
resolution, the above described territory shall be a part of the village for
any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons residing within such
territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
village.
   (f)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinance set
forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the annexed
territory, and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board.
   (g)   Dated this fifteenth day of June, 1998.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment C)
ATTACHMENT D: RESOLUTION 1998-8 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   The village wishes to annex lands it owns, and an attached town island
in the Town of Beaver, Polk County. Said lands are further described as
follows:
 
Lot 1 and Outlet 1 of that certified survey map recorded in Volume 11 of
Certified Survey Maps on page 46 Document Number 561362 in the office of
Register of Deeds in and for Polk County, being a part of the NE quarter of the
NE quarter of Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated that the land to be annexed is
property described and is shown on the scale map attached thereto is contiguous
to the village and is unincorporated.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined that the annexation of the above
described territory is sufficient and legal conforming with the requirements of
Wis. Stats. §§ 66.025 and 66.021(15).
   (d)   The above described territory in subsection (a) shall be a part of the
village for any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons within such
territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
village.
   (e)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinances
setting forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the
annexed territory, and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board.
   (f)   Dated this the seventeenth day of August, 1998.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment D)
ATTACHMENT E: RESOLUTION 1999-1 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   A petition for direct annexation of the following described territory
of the Town of Beaver, Polk County was filed with the Village Clerk on October
21, 1998, whereas, said lands are described as follows:
 
Outlet 1 of that Certified Survey Map recorded in Volume 11 of Certified Survey
Maps on page 46 Document Number 561362 in the office of Register of Deeds in
and for Polk County, being a part of the NE quarter of the NE quarter of
Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated the petition and has certified
to the Village Board it was signed by the sole owners and all electors of the
land described in the petition as of the date of the filing of the petition and
that the land to be annexed is property described and is shown on the scale map
attached thereto, is contiguous to the village and is unincorporated.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined the petition for annexation of the
above described territory is sufficient and legal conforming with the
requirements of Wis. Stats. § 66.021.
   (d)   The petition for annexation be accepted and directs the Village Clerk
to notify the Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Polk County of the acceptance of the
annexation petition, either by personal service or registered mail, the return
receipt requested, in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.021(5)(a).
   (e)   The above described territory in subsection (a) shall be a part of the
village for any and all purposes provided by law and all persons within such
territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
village.
   (f)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinances
setting forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the
annexed territory and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board.
   (g)   Dated this the fifteenth day of February, 1999.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment E)
ATTACHMENT F: RESOLUTION 1999-2 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   The village wishes to annex lands it owns, Town of Beaver, Polk
County, whereas said lands are further described as follows:
 
Lot 1 of that certified survey map recorded in Volume 11 of Certified Survey
Maps on page 46 Document Number 561362 in the office of Register of Deeds in
and for Polk County, being a part of the NE quarter of the NE quarter of
Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk County.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated that the land to be annexed is
property described and is shown on the scale map attached thereto, is
contiguous to the village and is unincorporated.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined that the annexation of the above
described territory is sufficient and legal conforming with the requirements of
Wis. Stats. § 66.025.
   (d)   The above described territory in subsection (a) shall be a part of the
village for any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons within such
territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
village.
   (e)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinances
setting forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the
annexed territory, and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board.
   (f)   Dated this the fifteenth day of February, 1999.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment F)
ATTACHMENT G: RESOLUTION 1999-5 ANNEXATION RESOLUTION.
   (a)   A petition for direct annexation of the following described territory
of the Town of Beaver, Polk County was filed with the Village Clerk on of March
15, 1999, whereas, said lands are described as follows:
 
The SW quarter of NE quarter, Section 36, Township 34 N, Range 15 W, Polk
County.
 
   (b)   The Village Attorney has investigated the petition and has certified
to the Village Board it was signed by the sole owners and all electors of the
land described in the petition as of the date of the filing of the petition,
and that the land to be annexed is property described and is shown on the scale
map attached thereto, is contiguous to the village and is unincorporated.
   (c)   The Village Board has determined the petition for annexation of the
above described territory is sufficient and legal conforming with the
requirements of Wis. Stats. § 66.021.
   (d)   The petition for annexation be accepted and directs the Village Clerk
to notify the Clerk of the Town of Beaver, Polk County of the acceptance of the
annexation petition, either by personal service or registered mail, the return
receipt requested, in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.021(5(a).
   (e)   The above described territory in subsection (a) shall be a part of the
village for any and all purposes provided by law, and all persons within such
territory shall be subject to all ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
village.
   (f)   The petition for annexation is to be accepted and directs the Plan
Commission of the village to prepare an amendment to the zoning ordinances
setting forth the permanent classification and regulation for the zoning of the
annexed territory, and to submit its recommendations to the Village Board.
   (g)   Dated this the twenty-fifth day of March, 1999.
(Prior Code, Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment G)
TITLE 14: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
1.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
Article A: Adoption, Introduction
   
14-1-1   Introduction and purpose
   
14-1-2   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
14-1-3   Interpretation
   
14-1-4   Severability
   
14-1-5   Repeal
   
14-1-6   Title
   14-1-7 through 14-1-9   Reserved for future use
Article B: Definitions
   
14-1-10   Definitions
   14-1-11 through 14-1-19   Reserved for future use
Article C: General Provisions
   
14-1-20   General provisions
   
14-1-21   Land suitability
   
14-1-22   Condominium developments
   14-1-23 through 14-1-29   Reserved for future use
Article D: Plat Review and Approval
   
14-1-30   Preliminary consultation
   
14-1-31   Submission of preliminary plat
   
14-1-32   Preliminary plat review and approval
   
14-1-33   Final plat review and approval
   
14-1-34   Land divisions and consolidations by certified survey map
   
14-1-35   Replat
   
14-1-36   Determination of adequacy of public facilities and services
   14-1-37 through 14-1-39   Reserved for future use
   Appendix A   Village of Turtle Lake Environmental Assessment Checklist for
Subdivisions and Land Divisions by Certified Survey
Article E: Technical Requirements for Plats and Certified Surveys
   
14-1-40   Technical requirements for preliminary plats
   
14-1-41   Technical requirements for final plats
   
14-1-42   Technical requirements for certified survey land divisions; review
and approval
   14-1-43 through 14-1-49   Reserved for future use
Article F: Required Improvements
   
14-1-50   Improvements required
   
14-1-51   Required agreement providing for proper installation of improvements;
surety
   
14-1-52   Required construction plans; village review; inspections
   
14-1-53   Street improvements
   
14-1-54   Curb and gutter; drainage facilities
   
14-1-55   Sidewalks and bikeways
   
14-1-56   Sanitary sewerage system
   
14-1-57   Water supply facilities
   
14-1-58   Stormwater drainage facilities
   
14-1-59   Other utilities
   
14-1-60   Street lamps; street trees
   
14-1-61   Street signs
   
14-1-62   Erosion control
   
14-1-63   Partition fences
   
14-1-64   Easements
   
14-1-65   Extra-sized and off-site facilities
   
14-1-66   Acceptance of improvements and dedications
   
14-1-67   Site grading
   14-1-68 through 14-1-69   Reserved for future use
Article G: Design Standards
   
14-1-70   General street design standards
   
14-1-71   Specifications for preparation, construction, and dedication of
streets and roads
   
14-1-72   Block design standards
   
14-1-73   Lot design standards
   
14-1-74   Drainage and stormwater management system
   
14-1-75   Non-residential subdivisions
   
14-1-76   Grading
   
14-1-77   Erosion control
   14-1-78 through 14-1-79   Reserved for future use
Article H: Park and Public Land Dedication
   
14-1-80   General park and public land dedication requirements
   
14-1-81   Land dedication
   
14-1-82   Reservation of additional land
   
14-1-83   Development of park area
   14-1-84 through 14-4-89   Reserved for future use
Article I: Fees
   
14-1-90   Administrative and other fees
   14-1-91 through 14-1-99   Reserved for future use
Article J: Variances; Penalties and Violations
   
14-1-100   Variances and exceptions
   
14-1-101   Enforcement, penalties, and remedies
   
14-1-102   Disclaimers on approvals
   
14-1-103   Restrictions for public benefits
ARTICLE A: ADOPTION, INTRODUCTION
§ 14-1-1 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   Introduction. In accordance with the authority granted by Wis. Stats.
§§ 236.13(1)(b) and 236.45, and for the purposes listed in Wis. Stats. §§
236.01 and 236.45, the Village Board does hereby ordain as follows:
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements adopted to promote the health, safety, morals, comfort,
prosperity, and general welfare of the village.
      (2)   This chapter shall not repeal, impair, or modify private covenants
or public ordinances, except that it shall apply whenever it imposes stricter
restrictions on land use.
   (b)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health,
safety, convenience, and general welfare of the community. The regulations are
designed to lessen congestion in the highways and streets; to foster the
orderly layout and use of land; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other
dangers; to provide adequate light and air, including access to sunlight for
solar collectors, and to wind for wind energy systems; to discourage
overcrowding of the land; to protect the community’s agriculture base; to
facilitate adequate provision for transportation, public water and sewerage,
schools, parks, playgrounds, and other public necessities; and to facilitate
the further division of large tracts of land into smaller parcels. The
regulations are made with the reasonable consideration of, but not limited to,
the present character of the village and its environs, with the objectives of
conserving the value of the land and improvements placed thereon, providing the
most appropriate environment for human habitation, encouraging commerce and
industry, protecting farming and open spaces, and providing for the most
appropriate use of land in the village.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Wis. Stats. Chapter 236
§ 14-1-2 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, agreements, rules,
regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law. However,
where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2)
§ 14-1-3 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the village, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other power granted by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-3)
§ 14-1-4 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is invalid or unconstitutional, or if the
application of this chapter to any person or circumstances is invalid or
unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the
other provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect
without the invalid or unconstitutional provision or application.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-4)
§ 14-1-5 REPEAL.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances of the village inconsistent or
conflicting with this chapter, to the extent of the inconsistency only, are
hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-5)
§ 14-1-6 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to, or cited as the “Village of
Turtle Lake Subdivision Chapter” or “Village of Turtle Lake Land Division and
Subdivision Chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 14-1-6)
§§ 14-1-7 THROUGH 14-1-9 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE B: DEFINITIONS
§ 14-1-10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which normally affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for the movement of relatively
heavy traffic to, from, or within the village. It has a secondary function of
providing access to abutting land and to collector and minor streets.
   BIKEWAY. A bike route completely apart from a street and restricted to
bicycle, pedestrian, and maintenance vehicle traffic.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by a
combination or combinations of streets, exterior boundary lines of the
subdivision, and streams or water bodies.
   BUILDING LINE OR BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a lot line and at
a distance from the lot line so as to comply with the yard and setback
requirements of the village zoning code, or any restriction on the plat which
identifies a line on the plat as a BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which collects and distributes internal traffic
within an urban area such as a residential neighborhood, between arterial and
local streets. It provides access to abutting property.
   COMMISSION. The Plan Commission created by the Village Board pursuant to
Wis. Stats. § 62.23.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A comprehensive plan prepared by the village
indicating the general locations recommended for the various functional classes
of land use, places and structures, and for the general physical development of
the village and includes any unit or part of such plan separately adopted, and
any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A preliminary drawing, made to approximate scale, of a
proposed land division for discussion purposes.
   CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. A real estate development in which a condominium
form of ownership, pursuant to Wis. Stats. Chapter 703, is utilized.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic, and the other
end being permanently terminated in a vehicular turnaround.
   DEAD END STREET. A street permanently or temporarily closed at one end, with
or without turnarounds.
   DIVISION OF LAND. Where the title or any part thereof is transferred by the
execution of a land contract, an option to purchase, an offer to purchase and
acceptance, a deed, or a certified survey.
   DRAINAGEWAY. An open area of land, either in an easement or dedicated right-
of-way, the primary purpose of which is to carry stormwater on the ground
surface in lieu of an enclosed storm sewer. DRAINAGEWAYS may serve multiple
purposes in addition to their principal use including, but not limited to,
maintenance, bicycle, and pedestrian traffic, sanitary sewers, water mains,
storm sewers, stormwater detention, park development, and other related uses.
DRAINAGEWAYS may also be referred to as GREENWAYS.
   EASEMENT. The area of land set aside or over or through which a liberty,
privilege, or advantage in land, distinct from ownership of the land, is
granted to the public or some particular person, or part of the public.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL PLAT APPROVAL JURISDICTION. The unincorporated area within
one and one-half miles of a fourth-class city or a village, and within three
miles of all other cities.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider’s plan
of subdivision is presented for approval and which, if approved, will be
submitted to the County Register of Deeds.
   FRONTAGE STREET. A minor street auxiliary to and located on the side of an
arterial street for control of access and for service to the abutting
development.
   HALF STREET. A street, either existing as or proposed to be, half of the
required right-of-way width with the intention that the adjoining half will be
platted at the time the adjoining lands are subdivided; or an existing street,
of which, due to reasons of ownership, only half of the right-of-way is within
the boundaries of a proposed land division or annexation.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, open channel, water
main, roadway, park, parkway, public access, sidewalk, pedestrian way, planting
strip, or other facility for which the village may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   LAND DIVISION. A division of a parcel of land where the act of division,
including by certified survey, creates less than five lots, parcels, or
building sites of 35 acres each or less in area.
   LOCAL STREET. A street of little or no continuity designed to provide access
to abutting property and leading into collector streets.
   LOT. A parcel of land having frontage on a public street or other officially
approved means of access, occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal
structure or use, and sufficient in size to meet the lot width, lot frontage,
lot area, yard, parking area, and other open space provisions of this chapter
and any applicable zoning ordinance.
   LOT, AREA. The area contained within the exterior boundaries of a lot
excluding streets, and land under navigable bodies of water.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting intersecting streets at their intersection.
   LOT DEPTH. The average dimension of a parcel measured from the rear lot line
to the front lot line along each side yard setback.
   LOT LINES. The peripheral boundaries of a lot as defined herein.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot which is oriented so that it has its rear
lot line coincident with or parallel to the side lot line of the interior lot
immediately to its rear.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two more or
less parallel public streets and which is not a corner lot. On a THROUGH LOT,
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a parcel of land measured along the front building
line.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A street used or intended to be used primarily for fast
or heavy through traffic. MAJOR THOROUGHFARES shall include freeways,
expressways, and other highways and parkways, as well as arterial streets.
   MASTER PLAN. An extensively developed plan, map, or other document
pertaining to planning and adopted by the Village Board or other village agency
which may pertain to the division of lands, including the Comprehensive
Development Plan, the official map, comprehensive utility plans, and other
planning documents, including proposals for future land use, transportation,
urban redevelopment, and public facilities. Devices for the implementation of
these plans, such as ordinances pertaining to zoning, official map, land
division, and building development and capital improvement plans shall be
considered as planning documents within this definition.
   MINOR STREET. A street used, or intended to be used, primarily for access to
abutting properties; also referred to as a LOCAL STREET.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION (CERTIFIED SURVEY). The division of land by the owner or
subdivider resulting in the creation of not more than four parcels or building
sites, any one of which is 35 acres in size or less, or the division of a
block, lot, or outlot within a recorded subdivision plat into not more than
four parcels or building sites without changing the exterior boundaries of said
block, lot, or outlot.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map indicating the location, width, and extent of existing
and proposed streets, highways, drainageways, parks, playgrounds, and other
facilities, as adopted by the Village Board pursuant to Wis. Stats. Chapter 62.
   OUTLET. A parcel of land, other than a lot, so designated on a plat or
certified survey and which is not intended for building or structure
development, in the proposed land division.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a
natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public or
quasi-public corporation, or combination of these, having any pecuniary
interest in lands regulated by this chapter.
   PARCEL. Contiguous lands under the control of a subdivider, whether or not
separated by a combination of streets, exterior subdivision boundary lines,
streams, or other water bodies.
   PERSON. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean any
individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or
any other legal entity.
   PLANNED COMMERCIAL SITE. A specified area of land comprising one or more
contiguous ownership parcels or building sites for non-residential uses, and
which area is legally limited by a reciprocal land use agreement and plan of
building placement, reciprocal use of off-street parking facilities, and
reciprocal use of ingress and egress facilities for each building, loading, and
parking site. A PLANNED COMMERCIAL SITE must have a plan and reciprocal land
use agreement approved by the village recorded in the office of the appropriate
County Register of Deeds. An approved plan and reciprocal land use agreement
may not be changed without approval by the village. No portion of a PLANNED
COMMERCIAL SITE may include or front on a street, highway, walkway, parkway, or
utility route designated in the Master Plan or official map at the time of
initial recording, unless the designated facility is in public ownership or
easement.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OR PUD. A form of development usually characterized
by a unified site design for a number of housing units. The concept usually
involves clustering of buildings, providing common open space, and mixing
different types of housing (single-family, duplexes, and multi-family).
Ordinances permitting PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS permit planning a project and
calculating densities for the entire development rather than on an individual
lot by lot basis. It is hereby declared that regulating PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS require greater involvement of public officials in site plan
review, and development aspects of both zoning and land division regulation
since such developments require exceptions from both types of regulation.
   PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY. A public way, usually running at right angles to
streets, which is intended for the convenience of pedestrians only; it may also
provide public right-of-way for utilities.
   PLAT. The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plat of
subdivision is presented to the village for approval.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary plat map, drawing, or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Plan Commission for
its consideration as to compliance with the Comprehensive Development Plan and
these regulations, along with required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties or
between private parties and public bodies pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 236.293,
which constitute a restriction on the use of all private or platted property
within a subdivision for the benefit of the public or property owners, and to
provide mutual protection against undesirable aspects of development which
would tend to impair stability of values.
   REPLAT. The process of changing, or a map or plat which changes, the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof. The legal dividing
of a large block, lot, or outlet within a recorded subdivision plat without
changing exterior boundaries of said block, lot, or outlot is not a REPLAT.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT OR DWELLING UNIT. A single-family dwelling or part
of a duplex, apartment, or other multi-family dwelling occupied by one family
or one distinct set of inhabitants or occupants.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public way dedicated to the public for its intended use.
   SHORELANDS. Those lands within the following distances: 1,000 feet from the
high-water elevation of navigable lakes, ponds, and flowages, or 300 feet from
the high-water elevation of navigable streams or to the landward side of the
floodplain, whichever is greater.
   STREET. A public way for pedestrians and vehicular traffic and utility
access including, but not limited to, highways, thoroughfares, parkways,
through highways, roads, avenues, boulevards, lanes, places, and courts, and
any pavements, turf, fixtures, facilities, structures, plantings, signs, and
other elements of the right-of-way.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground, or attached to something having
permanent location on the ground, excepting public utility fixtures and
appurtenances.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation, agent, partnership, or entity of
any sort, which divides or proposes to divide or replat land in any manner,
including such heirs and assigns as may be responsible for the obligations of
the subdivider under the provisions of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of a lot, parcel, or tract of land by the owner
thereof, or the owner’s agent, for the purpose of sale or of building
development where:
      (1)   The act of division creates five or more parcels, lots, or building
sites of one and one-half acres each or less in area; or
      (2)   Five or more parcels, lots, or building sites of one and one-half
acres each or less in area are created by successive divisions within a period
of five years.
   URBAN SERVICE AREA. The portion of the village and the area within its
extraterritorial jurisdiction which has been designated by the Village Board as
the area to which services required in urban areas shall be provided in a
planned and orderly process, particularly those facilities which are placed on
or in the land as part of the urban development process. Such services include,
but are not limited to, public sanitary and storm sewers, water supply and
distribution system, and streets and highways.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Turtle Lake, Barron and Polk Counties, Wisconsin,
and, where appropriate, its Village Board, commissions, committees, and
authorized officials.
   WETLANDS. An area where water is at, near, or above the land surface long
enough to be capable of supporting aquatic or hydrophytic vegetation, and which
has soils indicative of wet conditions. (Wis. Stats. § 23.32(1).)
   WISCONSIN ADMINISTRATIVE CODE. The rules of administrative agencies having
rule-making authority in the state, published in a loose-leaf, continual
revision system, as directed by Wis. Stats. § 35.93 and Chapter 227, including
subsequent amendments to those rules.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-10)
§§ 14-1-11 THROUGH 14-1-19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE C: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 14-1-20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Compliance. No person shall divide any land located within the
jurisdictional limits of these regulations which results in a subdivision, land
division, land conveyance, consolidation, or a replat as defined herein; no
such subdivision, land division, land conveyance, consolidation, or replat
shall be entitled to recording; and no street shall be laid out, nor
improvements made to land, nor building permits issued for any land division
without compliance with all requirements of this chapter and the following.
      (1)   The provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapter 236.
      (2)   The rules of the Division of Plumbing, State Department of
Industry, Labor and Human Relations, contained in Wis. Admin. Code, SPS Chapter
383 for subdivisions not served by public sewer.
      (3)   The rules of the Division of Highways, State Department of
Transportation contained in Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter Trans. 233.08 for
subdivisions which abut a state trunk highway or connecting street.
      (4)   The rules of the State Department of Natural Resources contained in
the Administrative Code for the floodplain management program, and the
shoreland-wetlands management program.
      (5)   Comprehensive plans or components of such plans prepared by state,
regional, county, or municipal agencies duly adopted by the Village Board.
      (6)   All applicable local and county regulations, including zoning,
sanitary, building, and official mapping ordinances.
      (7)   The Village Master Plan and official map, or components thereof:
         a.   Whenever a parcel to be subdivided embraces any part of a street,
highway, or greenway designated in said Master Plan or official map, such part
of such proposed public way shall be platted and dedicated by the subdivider in
the location and at a width indicated along with all other streets in the
subdivision.
         b.   Where a proposed school site or other public ground shown on the
Master Plan or official map of the village is located in whole or in part
within the proposed subdivision, such proposed public ground or park shall be
dedicated to the public when dedication is required by this chapter or reserved
for a period of up to five years from the date of approval of the final plat
for acquisition by the village, or any other appropriate agency having the
authority to purchase said property. The village, or other agency having the
authority to purchase said property, and the subdivider shall enter into an
agreement which provides for the purchase of the lands held in reserve prior to
the conclusion of the five-year period.
      (8)   All applicable rules contained in the Wisconsin Administrative Code
not listed in this subsection (a).
      (9)   The village’s sewer and water rules on file with the Public Service
Commission of the state concerning sewer and water installations and services.
These rules are incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof as
though fully set forth herein.
   (b)   Jurisdiction; extra-territorial plat approval jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction of these regulations shall include all lands within the corporate
limits of the village, as well as the unincorporated area within the village
that has elected to approve plats under its extraterritorial plat approval
jurisdiction as provided in Wis. Stats. Chapter 236 and § 66.0105. The
provisions of this chapter, as they apply to divisions of tracts of land into
less than five parcels, shall not apply to:
      (1)   Transfers of interests in land by will or pursuant to court order;
      (2)   Leases for a term not to exceed ten years, mortgages, or easements;
and
      (3)   Sale or exchange of parcels of land between adjoining property
owners or where not more than one additional lot is created and said lot is not
less than the minimum size required by applicable laws or ordinances. No more
than one lot may be created in this fashion within a one year period.
   (c)   Certified survey. Any division of land other than a subdivision as
defined in Wis. Stats. § 236.02(8) shall be surveyed, and a certified survey
map prepared as provided in Wis. Stats. § 236.34.
   (d)   Compliance; issuance of permits. The village shall not recognize, and
no building or other permits shall be issued by the village authorizing the
building on, occupancy, or improvement of any parcel of land not on record as
of the effective date of this chapter until the provisions and requirements of
this chapter have been fully complied with and a resolution approving the land
division has been adopted by the Village Board.
   (e)   Applicability to condominiums. This chapter is expressly applicable to
condominium developments within the village’s jurisdiction, pursuant to Wis.
Stats. § 703.27(1). For purposes of this chapter, a condominium unit and any
associated limited common elements shall be deemed to be equivalent to a lot or
parcel created by the act of subdivision.
   (f)   Recording of plats or certified surveys. Plats and certified surveys,
approved by the Village Board, must be recorded, together with the adopting
resolution, with the County Register of Deeds within 30 days of the date of the
last resolution of approval, and not later than six months following the date
of the first resolution of approval. Land divisions shall not be recognized by
the village until recorded with the Register of Deeds. The volume, page, and
document numbers of the recording shall be filed with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and Building
Inspector prior to issuance of any permits. The subdivider shall file six
certified copies of the approved land division with the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-20)
§ 14-1-21 LAND SUITABILITY.
   (a)   Suitability. No land shall be subdivided for residential, commercial,
or industrial use which is held unsuitable for such use by the Village Board,
upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission, for reason of flooding,
inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation, unfavorable topography, or
any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or welfare of the
future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community. The Village
Board, in applying the provisions of this section, shall in writing recite the
particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that the land is not
suitable for residential use and afford the subdivider an opportunity to
present evidence regarding such unsuitability if he or she so desires.
Thereafter the Village Board, upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission,
may affirm, modify, or withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
   (b)   Existing flora. The subdivider shall make every effort to protect and
retain all existing trees, shrubbery, vines, and grasses not actually lying in
public roadways, drainageways, building foundation sites, private driveways,
soil absorption waste disposal areas, paths, and trails. Such trees are to be
protected and preserved during construction in accordance with sound
conservation practices, possibly including the preservation of trees by well
islands or retaining walls whenever abutting grades are altered, pursuant to a
landscaping plan filed by the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-21)
§ 14-1-22 CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Village Board hereby finds that certain issues arise in
condominium developments that require limited applicability of this chapter to
condominium developments. The state legislature has recognized that subdivision
ordinances may apply to condominiums, but that subdivision ordinances shall not
impose burdens upon condominiums that are different from those imposed on other
property of a similar character not subject to a declaration of condominium.
      (2)   The factor that makes this chapter applicable to a condominium
development is the creation of multiple, distinct property entities at or near
the ground surface, subject to property taxation as separate “parcels,” with
each property entity having different ownership and management. The village
determines that this factor makes a condominium development dissimilar, both
physically and in ownership, from developments in which the land and
improvements are under unitary ownership, management, and control.
      (3)   Thus, the Village Board hereby finds that new condominium
developments can place impacts on community resources in the same manner as
other new developments which are characterized by division of land into lots.
These impacts include:
         a.   Additional population density;
         b.   Possibility of use of particular land in a manner unsuitable to
the land’s characteristics;
         c.   Additional demands upon village area parks, recreation areas,
utility facilities, and schools; and
         d.   Additional traffic and street use.
   (b)   Portions of chapter applicable to condominium developments. The
following sections of this chapter shall apply to condominium developments.
      (1)   Section
14-1-21 relating to land suitability and construction practices.
      (2)   Sections
14-1-30 through
14-1-32 relating to preliminary plat approval. This stage of approval shall be
the only approval required for a condominium development. The technical
requirements for preliminary plats set forth in §
14-1-40 shall not apply, since condominiums have separate technical standards
set forth in Wis. Stats. Chapter 703.
      (3)   Article I relating to fees for review.
      (4)   Article F relating to required improvements.
      (5)   Article G relating to design standards for improvements.
      (6)   Article H relating to dedication requirements.
   (c)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the following
condominiums:
      (1)   Any condominium plat recorded prior to the effective date of this
chapter; and
      (2)   Any conversion of a structure or structures in existence on the
effective date of this chapter to a condominium after the effective date of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-22)
§§ 14-1-23 THROUGH 14-1-29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE D: PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 14-1-30 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION.
   Before filing of an application for the approval of a preliminary plat or
certified survey map, the subdivider is encouraged to submit a conceptual plan
and to consult with village staff and the Plan Commission for advice regarding
general subdivision requirements. Information on meeting dates, agenda
deadlines, and filing requirements may be obtained from the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate. The
conceptual plan would show the relationship of the proposed subdivision or
certified survey to traffic arteries and existing community facilities. This
consultation is neither formal nor mandatory, but is intended to inform the
subdivider of the purpose and objectives of these regulations, the Master Plan,
comprehensive plan components, and plan implementation devices of the village,
and to otherwise assist the subdivider in planning his or her development. The
subdivider will gain a better understanding of the subsequent required
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-30)
§ 14-1-31 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (a)   Submission. Before submitting a final plat for approval, the
subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat and a letter of application. The
subdivider shall submit 20 copies of the preliminary plat. The preliminary plat
shall be prepared in accordance with the standards of this chapter,
particularly §
14-1-40, and the subdivider shall file copies of the plat and the application
as required by this section with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, at least 30 days prior to the meeting of the
Plan Commission at which action is desired. The Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall submit copies of the
preliminary plat to the Plan Commission, and to the Village Engineer for review
and written report of his or her recommendations and reactions to the proposed
plat.
   (b)   Public improvements; plans and specifications. Simultaneously with the
filing of the preliminary plat of map, the owner shall file with the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, 20 complete
sets of preliminary plans and specifications for the construction of any public
improvements required by this chapter, specifically addressing sewer and water
service feasibility, drainage facilities, traffic patterns, typical street
cross-sections, erosion control plans, pavement design, and other improvements
necessary in the subdivision.
   (c)   Property owners association; restrictive covenants. A draft of the
legal instruments and rules for proposed property owners associations, when the
subdivider proposes that common property within a subdivision would be either
owned or maintained by such an organization of property owners or a subunit of
the village pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 236.293, and proposed deed restrictions
or restrictive covenants shall be submitted at the time of filing the
preliminary plat with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate.
   (d)   Environmental assessment.
      (1)   Filing requirement. An environmental assessment checklist shall be
completed by the subdivider for review by the Plan Commission with the
preliminary plat, or preferably as part of the pre-application conference, for
any subdivision or land division by certified survey which the village has
authority to approve.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of this environmental assessment checklist is
to provide the basis for an orderly, systematic review of the effects of all
new subdivisions upon the community environment in accordance with the
principles and procedures of state statutes set for local subdivision
regulation. The Plan Commission will use these procedures in determining land
suitability. The goals of the community in requiring this checklist are to
eliminate or reduce pollution and siltation to an acceptable standard, assume
ample living space per capita, preserve open space and parks for recreation,
provide adequately for stormwater control, maintain scenic beauty and aesthetic
surroundings, administer to the economic and cultural needs of the citizens,
and provide for the effective and efficient flow of goods and services.
      (3)   Coverage. The environmental assessment checklist shall apply to all
reviewable subdivisions, and land divisions by certified survey. The Plan
Commission may waive the requirement for the filing of an environmental
assessment checklist for land divisions by certified survey of less than five
acres total area.
      (4)   Preliminary checklist for environmental assessment of plats, land
divisions, and community development plans. An environmental assessment
checklist form as required under this subsection (d) is available from the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (e)   Affidavit. The surveyor preparing the preliminary plat shall certify
on the face of the plat that it is a correct representation of all existing
land divisions and features, and that he or she has fully complied with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (f)   Supplementary data to be filed with preliminary plat. The following
shall also be filed with the preliminary plat.
      (1)   Use statement. A statement of the proposed use of lots stating the
type of residential buildings with the number of proposed dwelling units; and
the types of business or industry so as to reveal the effect of the development
on traffic, fire hazards, and congestion of population.
      (2)   Zoning changes. If any zoning changes are contemplated, the
proposed zoning plan for the areas, including dimensions.
      (3)   Area plan. Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that
which is being proposed for the subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with
the requirements of § 14-l-40(a)(5) for the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions must be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions.
   (g)   Street plans and profiles. The subdivider shall provide street plans
and profiles showing existing ground surface, and proposed and established
street grades, including extensions for a reasonable distance beyond the limits
of the proposed subdivision when requested.
   (h)   Soil testing. Upon the request of the Plan Commission or Village
Engineer, the subdivider shall provide a preliminary soils report, listing the
types of soil in the proposed subdivision, their effect on the subdivision, and
a proposed soil testing and investigation program. Pursuant to the public
policy concerns prescribed in §
14-1-21, the Village Engineer may require that borings and soundings be made in
specified areas to ascertain subsurface soil, rock, and water conditions,
including depth to bedrock and depth to the groundwater table.
   (i)   Referral to other agencies and utilities.
      (1)   Utilities. The subdivider shall also forward a copy to the local
electric, gas, and telephone utilities. When the subdivider expects the village
to act as the transmitting authority in accordance with Wis. Stats. Chapter
409, the application shall state that the transmittal responsibility lies with
the village, shall contain a list of the other authorities to which the plat
must be submitted, and shall be accompanied by such additional fees and copies
of the plat as are necessary to be transmitted to such authorities.
      (2)   County and state agencies. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall, within two days after the
filing of the preliminary plat, transmit copies to the County Planning Agency,
copies to the Director of the Planning Function in the State Department of
Development, additional copies to the Director of the Planning Function for
retransmission of copies to the State Department of Transportation if the
subdivision abuts or adjoins a state trunk highway or a connecting street and
the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human Relations if the subdivision
is not served by the public sewer and provision for such service has not been
made, and an adequate number of copies to the Plan Commission. The County
Planning Agency, the State Department of Development, the State Department of
Transportation, and the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human
Relations shall be hereinafter referred to as objecting agencies. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall also
transmit a copy of the preliminary plat to other affected village boards,
commissions, or departments for their review and recommendations concerning
matters within their jurisdiction.
      (3)   Action by outside agencies. Within 15 days of the date of receiving
the copies of the preliminary plat, any state or county agency having authority
to object under Wis. Admin. Code Trans. 233.03 above shall notify the
subdivider and all approving or objecting authorities of any objection based
upon failure of the plat to comply with the statutes or rules which its
examination is authorized to cover, or, if all objections have been satisfied,
it shall so certify on the face of a copy of the plat and return that copy to
the approving authority from which it was received. The plat shall not be
approved or deemed approved until any objections have been satisfied. If the
objecting agency fails to act within the 15-day limit, it shall be deemed to
have no objection to the plat. The recommendations of village agencies shall
also be transmitted to the Plan Commission within 15 days from the date the
plat is filed.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-31)
§ 14-1-32 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (a)   Commission action.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall, within 40 days of the date the
preliminary plat was filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, approve, approve conditionally, or reject
such plat and shall state, in writing, any conditions of approval or reasons
for rejection, unless the time is extended by agreement with the subdivider.
Failure of the Plan Commission to act within 40 days or extension thereof shall
constitute an approval of the preliminary plat, unless other authorized
agencies object to the plat. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, shall communicate to the subdivider the
action of the Plan Commission. If the preliminary plat is approved, the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall
endorse it for the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall refer copies of the
preliminary plat as approved to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate. An abstract of title or registered property
report may be referred to the Village Attorney for his or her examination and
report.
   (b)   Effect of preliminary plat approval. Approval or conditional approval
of a preliminary plat shall entitle the final plat to approval, provided the
final plat conforms substantially to the preliminary plat, including any
conditions of that approval, conforms to applicable local plans and ordinances,
and is submitted within six months of the last required approval of the
preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat is approved, the final plat must be
approved by the Village Board within six months or the preliminary plat
approval is void. Previous preliminary plat approvals shall not constitute
grounds for approval upon resubmission.
   (c)   Preliminary plat amendment. Should the subdivider desire to amend the
preliminary plat as approved, he or she may resubmit the amended plat which
shall follow the same procedure outlined herein, unless the amendment is, in
the opinion of the Plan Commission, of such scope as to constitute a new plat,
in which such case it shall be refiled.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-32)
§ 14-1-33 FINAL PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (a)   Filing requirements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall prepare a final plat and a letter of
application in accordance with this chapter, and shall file 20 copies of the
plat and the application with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, at least 21 days prior to the meeting of the
Plan Commission at which action is desired. The owner or subdivider shall file
20 copies of the final plat not later than six months after the date of
approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise, the preliminary plat and final
plat will be considered void unless an extension is requested in writing by the
subdivider and for good cause granted by the village. The owner or subdivider
shall also submit at this time a current certified abstract of title or
registered property report, and such other evidence as the Village Attorney may
require, showing title or control in the applicant. A written transmittal
letter shall identify all substantial changes that have been made to the plat
since the preliminary plat. When the subdivider expects the village to act as
the transmitting authority in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 236.12, the
application shall state that transmittal responsibilities lie with the village,
and shall contain a list of the other authorities to which the plat must be
subjected and shall be accompanied by such additional fees and copies of the
plat as are necessary to be transmitted to such authorities.
      (2)   If the village is acting as the transmitting authority, the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall,
within two days after filing, transmit copies to the County Planning Agency,
copies to the Director of the Planning Function in the State Department of
Development, additional copies to the Director of the Planning Function for
retransmission of copies to the State Department of Transportation if the
subdivision abuts or adjoins a state trunk highway or a connecting street, and
the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human Relations if the subdivision
is not served by a public sewer and provision for service has not been made, to
all affected village boards, commissions, and committees, and the original
final plat and adequate copies to the Plan Commission. The County Planning
Agency, the State Department of Development, the State Department of
Transportation, and the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human
Relations shall be hereinafter referred to as objecting agencies.
      (3)   The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved
and to the requirements of all applicable ordinances and state laws, and shall
be submitted for certification of those agencies having the authority to object
to the plat as provided by Wis. Stats. § 236.12(2).
      (4)   a.   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, shall refer two copies of the final plat to the Plan
Commission, and one copy to the Village Engineer. The recommendations of the
Plan Commission and Village Engineer shall be made within 30 days of the filing
of the final plat.
         b.   The Village Engineer shall examine the plat or map and final
plans and specifications of public improvements for technical details, and, if
he or she finds them satisfactory, shall so certify in writing to the Plan
Commission. If the plat or map or the plans and specifications are not
satisfactory, the Village Engineer shall return them to the owner and so advise
the Plan Commission.
   (b)   Plan Commission review.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall examine the final plat as to its
conformance with the approved preliminary plat, any conditions of approval of
the preliminary plat, this chapter, and all applicable ordinances, rules,
regulations, comprehensive plans, and comprehensive plan components which may
affect it, and shall recommend approval, conditional approval, or rejection of
the plat to the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The objecting state and county agencies shall, within 15 days of
the date of receiving their copies of the final plat, notify the subdivider and
all other approving and objecting agencies of any objections, except that the
State Department of Development has 30 days in which to make objections. If
there are no objections, they shall so certify on the face of the copy of the
plat and shall return that copy to the village. If an objecting agency fails to
act within 15 days, it shall be deemed to have no objection to the plat.
      (3)   If the final plat is not submitted within six months of the last-
required approval of the preliminary plat, the Plan Commission may refuse to
approve the final plat.
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall, within 30 days of the date of filing of
the final plat with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, recommend approval, conditional approval, or
rejection of the plat, and shall transmit the final plat and application along
with its recommendations to the Village Board. The Plan Commission may hold the
matter in abeyance if there is incomplete or inadequate information.
   (c)   Board review and approval.
      (1)   The Village Board shall, within 60 days of the date of filing the
original final plat with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, approve or reject such plat unless the time is
extended by agreement with the subdivider. If the plat is rejected, the reasons
shall be stated in the minutes of the meeting and a written statement of the
reasons forwarded to the subdivider. The Village Board may not inscribe its
approval on the final plat unless the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, certifies on the face of the plat that the
copies were forwarded to objecting agencies as required herein the date
thereof, and that no objections have been filed within 20 days or, if filed,
have been met.
      (2)   The Village Board shall, when it determines to approve a final
plat, give at least ten days’ prior written notice of its intention to the
Municipal Clerk of any municipality within 1,000 feet of the final plat.
      (3)   Failure of the Village Board to act within 60 days, the time having
not been extended and no unsatisfied objections having been filed, the plat
shall be deemed approved.
   (d)   Recordation. After the final plat has been approved by the Village
Board and required improvements either installed or a contract and sureties
ensuring their installation is filed, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall cause the certificate inscribed
upon the plat attesting to such approval to be duly executed and the plat
returned to the subdivider for recording with the County Register of Deeds. The
Register of Deeds cannot record the plat unless it is offered within six months
from the date of last approval. Recording fees shall be paid by the subdivider.
   (e)   Final copies. The subdivider shall file ten copies of the final plat
as approved with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official,
as appropriate, for distribution to the approving agencies, affected utilities,
and other affected agencies for their files. One Mylar copy shall also be filed
with the Village Engineer.
   (f)   Partial platting. The final plat may, if permitted by the Plan
Commission, constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which
the subdivider proposes to record at the time.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-33)
§ 14-1-34 LAND DIVISIONS AND CONSOLIDATIONS BY CERTIFIED SURVEY MAP.
   (a)   Use of certified survey map.
      (1)   A certified survey map, prepared and recorded in accordance with
Wis. Stats. § 236.34, and the requirements of this article, and having been
approved by the Village Board, may be used in lieu of a subdivision plat to
divide or consolidate lands, or dedicate lands, provided that one of the
following conditions is met.
         a.   The division or consolidation is of any lot, outlot, parcel, or
other lands previously approved by the village and recorded with the County
Register of Deeds as a subdivision plat, certified survey, or assessor’s plat,
of any size, which results in not more than four lots, outlots, parcels, or
mortgage descriptions, being created by any division or successive division,
regardless of any changes in ownership, within any five-year period.
         b.   The division or consolidation is of any lot, outlot, parcel, or
other lands previously recorded with the County Register of Deeds, including
those recorded by a metes and bounds description, provided any of the resulting
parcels are not less than one and one-half acres in size and which results in
not more than four lots, outlots, parcels, or mortgage descriptions, being
created by any division or successive division, regardless of changes of
ownership, within any five-year period.
      (2)   In the event a proposed land division does not meet the above
requirements, the proposed land division must be pursued as a subdivision plat.
      (3)   The certified survey map shall include the entire original parcels
of land owned or controlled by the subdivider, including those proposed for
division or consolidation. The subdivider shall comply with all requirements of
this chapter including Article G (Design Standards) and Article F (Required
Improvements) when a certified survey map is used. A certification of the
approval of the certified survey map by the Village Board shall be inscribed
legibly on the face of the map. A certificate of the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, stating that there are no
unpaid special assessments or taxes on the lands shall be included on the
certified survey map.
      (4)   The applicant for a land division shall file 20 acceptable
reproductions of a certified survey map and a written application requesting
approval with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate.
   (b)   Referral to Plan Commission. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall, within two normal work days
after filing, transmit the copies of the map and letter of application to the
Plan Commission.
   (c)   Review by other village agencies. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall transmit a copy of the map to
all affected village boards, commissions, or departments for their review and
recommendations concerning matters within their jurisdiction. Their
recommendations shall be transmitted to the Plan Commission within ten days
from the date the map is filed. The map shall be reviewed by the Plan
Commission for conformance with this chapter and all ordinances, rules,
regulations, comprehensive plans, comprehensive plan components, and
neighborhood plans.
   (d)   Review and approval. The Plan Commission shall, within 30 days from
the date of filing of the certified survey map, recommend approval, conditional
approval, or rejection of the map, and shall transmit the map along with its
recommendations to the Village Board. The Village Board shall approve, approve
conditionally, and thereby require resubmission of a corrected certified survey
map or reject such certified survey map within 60 days from the date of filing
of the map unless the time is extended by agreement with the subdivider. If the
map is rejected, the reason shall be stated in the minutes of the meeting and a
written statement forwarded to the subdivider. If the map is approved, the
Village Board shall cause the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, to so certify on the face of the original map and
return the map to the subdivider.
   (e)   Recordation.
      (1)   The subdivider shall file a copy of the approved certified survey
map together with the approving resolution with the County Register of Deeds
within 60 days of the date of the last resolution of approval, and not later
than six months following the date of the first resolution of approval. All
recording fees shall be paid by the subdivider.
      (2)   No building permits shall be issued and no improvements shall be
made until the certified survey is recorded and a document recording number is
filed with the Building Inspector.
   (f)   Re-approvals. Submittals of previously approved certified survey maps
for replatting or reapproval by the Village Board shall be in accordance with §
14-1-35.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-34)
§ 14-1-35 REPLAT.
   (a)   Except as provided in Wis. Stats. § 70.27(1), when it is proposed to
replat a recorded subdivision, or part thereof, so as to change the exterior
boundaries of a recorded subdivision, or part thereof, the subdivider or person
wishing to replat shall vacate or alter the recorded plat as provided in Wis.
Stats. §§ 236.40 through 236.44. The subdivider or person wishing to replat
shall then proceed using the approval procedures for preliminary and final
plats prescribed in this article.
   (b)   Whenever a preliminary plat or a replat is filed, the Plan Commission
shall schedule and hold a public hearing before it acts on the plat. Notices of
the proposed replat and public hearing shall be published as a Class 3 notice
and be mailed, at the subdivider’s expense, to the owners of all properties
within the limits of the exterior boundaries of the proposed replat, and to the
owners of all properties within 200 feet of the proposed replat.
   (c)   Whenever an approved final plat is submitted for reapproval within six
months of the initial resolution approving the plat, and which is substantially
in conformance with the approved plat, and which has not been recorded with the
Register of Deeds, said plat shall be reapproved by the Village Board. No final
plats shall be reapproved by the Village Board following the expiration of the
six-month period. Such plats shall be submitted as a new plat. All previous
approvals shall be null and void and shall have no further bearing on the
subsequent review and approval of the plat by the village.
   (d)   Where lots are more than double the minimum size required for the
applicable zoning district, the Plan Commission may require that such lots be
arranged so as to allow resubdivision of such parcels into normal lots in
accordance with the provisions of the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-35)
§ 14-1-36 DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY OF PUBLIC FACILITIES AND SERVICES.
   (a)   A preliminary plat, final plat, or certified survey shall not be
approved unless the Plan Commission and the Village Board determine that
adequate public facilities and public services will be available to meet the
needs of the proposed land division, and that no public funds other than those
already provided in an adopted capital or operating budget are required.
   (b)   The applicant shall furnish any data requested by the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, who shall
transmit this information to the appropriate commission(s), committee(s), and
staff for review; the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall act as coordinator of the reports from staff to
the Plan Commission and Village Board on the adequacy of water, sanitary and
storm sewers, fire service, police, parks and open space and recreation
facilities, transportation facilities, and schools.
   (c)   Public facilities and public services for a proposed land division may
be found to be adequate when the following conditions exist.
      (1)   The proposed land division is located in an urban service area
where adequate sewer service is presently available for extension, under
construction or designated by the Village Board for extension of sewer service
within the current capital budget year, and funds are specifically provided for
such extension either from public or private financing. The Plan Commission and
the Village Board shall consider the recommendations of the Village Engineer
and the appropriate committee(s) on the capacity of trunk lines and of sewerage
treatment facilities and any other information presented.
      (2)   The proposed land division is located within an urban service area
contiguous to an arterial transmission water main of adequate capacity for the
proposed development or if the water distribution system that is needed is
under construction or scheduled for construction within the current budget
year, and funds, either public or private, are available for the program. The
Plan Commission and the Village Board shall consider the recommendations from
the village’s utilities and the Village Engineer and the appropriate committee
(s) on line capacities, water sources, and storage facilities, as well as any
other information presented.
      (3)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, verifies to the Plan Commission and the Village Board that
adequate funds, either public or private, are available to insure the
installation of all necessary stormwater management facilities.
      (4)   The Director of Public Works can demonstrate to the Plan Commission
and the Village Board that street maintenance and refuse collection services,
either public or private, are so situated that adequate and timely service can
be provided so as not to involve danger or injury to the health, safety, or
general welfare to the future residents of the proposed land division or
existing village residents.
      (5)   The Plan Commission verifies that the future residents of the
proposed land division can be assured park, recreation, and open space
facilities and services which meet the standards of the village’s Master Plan.
      (6)   The Police Department, E.M.S., and Fire Department verify that
timely and adequate service can be provided to the residents.
      (7)   The proposed land division is accessible by existing or officially
mapped, publicly maintained, all-weather roadway system, adequate to
accommodate both existing traffic and that traffic to be generated by the
proposed land division in accordance with the official map and village
standards.
   (d)   Where the Plan Commission and the Village Board determine that one or
more public facilities or services are not adequate for the proposed
development, but that a portion of the area could be served adequately, or that
careful phasing of the development could result in all public facilities and
public services being adequate, conditional approval may include only such
portions or may specify phasing of the development.
   (e)   No land shall be divided which has been officially mapped as public
lands stormwater management facility or is determined by the Village Board to
be unsuitable for use by reason of flooding, bad drainage, soil or rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential or
unfavorable topography, or any other feature likely to be harmful to health,
safety, or welfare of future residents or landowners in the proposed land
division or of the community.
   (f)   The above requirements shall not apply to those areas outside the
corporate limits of the village and within the village’s extraterritorial
limits. Areas within the village capable of being served by public sewer and
water shall be required to connect to the village public water distribution
and/or public sewerage system if determined by the Village Engineer to be
feasible. If such connection(s) are not determined feasible, the proposed land
division shall provide for adequate on-site systems and such special piping
provisions as may be necessary to serve the anticipated development during the
interim period until such village public water and/or sewerage systems are
determined by the Village Engineer to be feasibly available for connection. The
subdivider, and his or her heirs and assigns, shall, by written plat
restriction, agree to abandon the interim water and sewerage facilities and
connect to the village public water and sewerage facilities upon a
determination by the Village Engineer that such facilities are available for
feasible connection.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-36)
§ 14-1-37 THROUGH 14-1-39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
APPENDIX A: VILLAGE OF TURTLE LAKE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST FOR
SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DIVISIONS BY CERTIFIED SURVEY
Village of Turtle Lake Environmental Assessment Checklist for Subdivisions
and Land Divisions by Certified Survey
Village of Turtle Lake Environmental Assessment Checklist for Subdivisions and
Land Divisions by Certified Survey
                                                                          
All “yes” answers must be explained in detail by attaching maps and supportive
documentation describing the impacts of the proposed development.
                                                                          
Land Resources                                                        Yes  No
                                                                          
Does the project site involve:                                             
                                                                          
A. Changes in relief and drainage patterns (attach a topographic map  ____ ____
showing, at a minimum, two (2) foot contour intervals).
                                                                          
B. A floodplain. (If yes, attach two (2) copies of a typical stream
valley cross-section showing the channel of the stream, the 100-year
floodplains limits and the floodway limits (if officially adopted),   ____ ____
of each site of the channel and a crosssection of area to be
developed.)
                                                                          
C. An area of soil instability - greater than 20% slope and/or        ____ ____
organic soils, peats, or mucks at or near the surface.
                                                                          
D. Prime agricultural land (Class I, II, or III soils).               ____ ____
                                                                          
E. Wetlands and mapped environmental corridors.                       ____ ____
                                                                          
Water Resources                                                            
                                                                          
Does the proposed project involve:                                         
                                                                          
A. Location within the area traversed by a navigable stream or dry    ____ ____
run.
                                                                          
B. Lake frontage.                                                     ____ ____
                                                                          
Human and Scientific Interest                                              
                                                                          
Does the project site involve:                                             
                                                                          
A. An area of archeological or geological interest.                   ____ ____
                                                                          
B. An area of historical interest.                                    ____ ____
                                                                          
C. An area of buildings or monuments with unique architecture.        ____ ____
                                                                          
Energy, Transportation and Communications                                  
                                                                          
A. Does the development encompass any future street appearing on the  ____ ____
Village of Turtle Lake Official Map?
                                                                          
B. Is the development traversed by an existing or planned utility
corridor (gas, electricity, water, sewer interceptor, communications, ____ ____
storm sewer)?
 
(Prior Code, Title 14, Chapter 1, Appendix A)
ARTICLE E: TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATS AND CERTIFIED SURVEYS
§ 14-1-40 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (a)   General. A preliminary plat shall be required for all subdivisions and
shall be based upon a survey by a registered land surveyor and the plat
prepared on Mylar or paper of good quality at a scale of not more than 100 feet
to the inch, and shall show correctly on its face the following information.
      (1)   Title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded, which
name shall not duplicate or be alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat
heretofore recorded in the village unless considered an addition to the
subdivision.
      (2)   Legal description/location of the proposed subdivision by
government lot, quarter section, township, range, county, and state.
      (3)   Date, scale, and North point.
      (4)   Names, telephone numbers, and addresses of the owner, and any agent
having control of the land, engineer, subdivider, land surveyor, preparing the
plat.
      (5)   Entire area contiguous to the proposed plat owned or controlled by
the subdivider may be required by the Plan Commission to be included on the
preliminary plat even though only a portion of said area is proposed for
immediate development. Where a subdivider owns or controls adjacent lands in
addition to those proposed for development at that time, he or she shall submit
a concept plan for the development of the adjacent lands showing streets,
utilities, zoning districts, and other information as may affect the review of
the preliminary plat in question. The Village Engineer may waive these
requirements where adjacent development patterns have already been established.
   (b)   Plat data. All preliminary plats shall show the following.
      (1)   Exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the proposed
subdivision referenced to a corner established in the U.S. Public Land Survey
and the total acreage encompassed thereby.
      (2)   Locations of all existing property boundary lines, structures,
drives, streams, and water courses, marshes, rock outcrops, wooded areas,
railroad tracks, and other significant features within the tract being
subdivided or immediately adjacent thereto.
      (3)   Location, right-of-way width, and names of all existing streets,
alleys, or other public ways, easements, railroad, and utility rights-of-way
and all section and quarter section lines within the exterior boundaries of the
plat or immediately adjacent thereto.
      (4)   Location and names of any adjacent subdivisions, parks, and
cemeteries, and owners of record of abutting unplatted lands.
      (5)   Type, width, and elevation of any existing street pavements within
the exterior boundaries of the plat or immediately adjacent thereto, together
with any legally established centerline elevations.
      (6)   Location, size, and invert elevation of any existing sanitary or
storm sewers, culverts, and drain pipes, the location of manholes, catchbasins,
hydrants, electric and communication facilities, whether overhead or
underground, and the location and size of any existing water and gas mains
within the exterior boundaries of the plat or immediately adjacent thereto. If
no sewers or water mains are located on or immediately adjacent to the tract,
the nearest such sewers or water mains which might be extended to serve the
tract shall be indicated by the direction and distance from the tract, size,
and invert elevations.
      (7)   Corporate limit lines within the exterior boundaries of the plat or
immediately adjacent thereto.
      (8)   Existing zoning on and adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
      (9)   Contours within the exterior boundaries of the plat and extending
to the centerline of adjacent public streets to National Map Accuracy Standards
based upon mean sea level datum at vertical intervals of not more than two
feet. At least two permanent bench marks shall be located in the immediate
vicinity of the plat; the location of the bench marks shall be indicated on the
plat, together with their elevations referenced to mean sea level datum and the
monumentation of the bench marks clearly and completely described. Where, in
the judgment of the Village Engineer, undue hardship would result because of
the remoteness of the parcel from a mean sea level reference elevation, another
datum may be used.
      (10)   High-water elevation of all ponds, streams, lakes, flowages, and
wetlands within the exterior boundaries of the plat or located within 100 feet
therefrom.
      (11)   Water elevation of all ponds, streams, lakes, flowages, and
wetlands within the exterior boundaries of the plat or located within 100 feet
therefrom at the date of the survey.
      (12)   Floodland and shoreland boundaries and the contour line lying a
vertical distance of two feet above the elevation of the 100-year recurrence
interval flood or, where such data is not available, two feet above the
elevation of the maximum flood of record within the exterior boundaries of the
plat or within 100 feet therefrom.
      (13)   Location and results of percolation tests within the exterior
boundaries of the plat conducted in accordance with Wis. Admin. Code, SPS
Chapter 383 where the subdivision will not be served by public sanitary sewer
service.
      (14)   Location, width, and names of all proposed streets and public
rights-of-way such as alleys and easements.
      (15)   Approximate dimensions of all lots together with proposed lot and
block numbers. The area in square feet of each lot shall be provided.
      (16)   Location and approximate dimensions of any sites to be reserved or
dedicated for parks, playgrounds, drainageways, or other public use or which
are to be used for group housing, shopping centers, church sites, or other
nonpublic uses not requiring lotting.
      (17)   Approximate radii of all curves.
      (18)   Any proposed lake and stream access with a small drawing clearly
indicating the location of the proposed subdivision in relation to access.
      (19)   Any proposed lake and stream improvement or relocation, and notice
of application for approval by the Division of Environmental Protection,
Department of Natural Resources, when applicable.
      (20)   Soil tests and reports as may be required by the Village Engineer
for the design of roadways, storm drainage facilities, on-site sewage disposal
systems, erosion control facilities, and/or other subdivision improvements and
features.
      (21)   Design features shall be as follows.
         a.   Locations and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways, and
utility easements.
         b.   Layout numbers and preliminary acreages and dimensions of lots
and blocks.
         c.   Minimum front, rear, side, and street yard building setback
lines.
         d.   Location and size of proposed sanitary sewer lines and water
mains.
         e.   Gradients of proposed streets, sewer lines, and water mains (if
required).
         f.   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such area or areas in acres.
         g.   Location and description of survey monuments.
         h.   An identification system for the consecutive numbering of all
blocks and lots within the subdivision.
         i.   Sites, if any, to be reserved for parks or other public uses.
         j.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry, or other non-public uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings.
         k.   Provisions for surface water management, including both minor and
major system components, detention/retention facilities, including existing and
post development 100-year flood elevations, and the like.
         l.   Potential resubdivision and use of excessively deep (over 200
feet) or oversized lots must be indicated in a satisfactory manner.
         m.   Any wetlands, floodplains, or environmentally sensitive areas
provided for by any local, state, or federal law.
      (22)   Where the Plan Commission or Village Engineer finds that it
requires additional information relative to a particular problem presented by a
proposed development in order to review the preliminary plat, it shall have the
authority to request in writing such information from the subdivider.
   (c)   Additional information. The Plan Commission and/or village officials
may require a proposed subdivision layout of all or part of the contiguously
owned land even though division is not planned at the time.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-40)
§ 14-1-41 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL PLATS.
   (a)   General. A final plat prepared by a registered land surveyor shall be
required for all subdivisions. It shall comply in all respects with the
requirements of Wis. Stats. § 236.20, and this chapter.
   (b)   Additional information. The final plat shall show correctly on its
face, in addition to the information required by Wis. Stats. § 236.20, the
following.
      (1)   Exact length and bearing of the centerline of all streets.
      (2)   Exact street width along the line of any obliquely intersecting
street.
      (3)   Exact location and description of street lighting and lighting
utility easements.
      (4)   Railroad rights-of-way within and abutting the plat.
      (5)   All lands reserved for future public acquisition or reserved for
the common use of property owners within the plat.
      (6)   Special restrictions required by the Village Board, upon the
recommendation of the Plan Commission, relating to access control along public
ways or to the provision of planting strips.
      (7)   Certifications by attached information showing that all taxes and
special assessments currently due on the property to be subdivided have been
paid in full.
      (8)   The subdivider shall cause to be set upon the final plat arrows
indicating the directions of drainage flows for each property line not fronting
on a street on all parcels and along each street as will result from the
grading of the site, the construction of the required public improvements, or
which are existing drainage flows and will remain. The arrows indicating the
directions of flows shall be appropriately weighted so as to differentiate
between the minor and major 100-year event drainage components. The arrows
shall be accompanied on the plat with the following note.
 
Arrows indicate the direction of drainage flows in various components resulting
from site grading and the construction of required public improvements. The
drainage flow components located in easements shall be maintained and preserved
by the property owner unless approved by the Village Engineer.
 
      (9)   a.   Where the groundwater table is equal to or less than nine feet
from the proposed street centerline elevation, the subdivider shall place the
following note on the plat.
 
Subsoil information indicates the presence of groundwater conditions that may
require basement elevations on Lot(s) ____________to be at elevation
__________________________ or higher, or that a modified structural plan of the
structure’s foundation shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for
approval with the application for a Building Permit as required information.
 
         b.   The elevation of the basement as described in the paragraph to be
placed on the plat shall be a minimum of two feet higher than the elevation of
the groundwater table as determined by the Village Engineer from the soils
information.
      (10)   Dimensions of lot lines shall be shown in feet and hundredths; no
ditto marks shall be permitted. When lot lines are not at right angles to the
street right-of-way line, the width of the lot shall be indicated at the
building setback line in addition to the width of the lot at the street right-
of-way line.
      (11)   A numbered identification system for all lots and blocks.
   (c)   Deed restrictions. Restrictive covenants and deed registrations for
the proposed subdivision shall be filed with the final plat.
   (d)   Property owners association. The legal instruments creating a property
owners association for the ownership and/or maintenance of common lands in the
subdivision shall be filed with the final plat.
   (e)   Survey accuracy.
      (1)   Examination. The Village Board and Plan Commission, or their
designees, shall examine all final plats within the village and may check for
the accuracy and closure of the survey, the proper kind and location of
monuments, and legibility and completeness of the drawing.
      (2)   Maximum error of closure. Maximum error of closure before
adjustment of the survey of the exterior boundaries of the subdivision shall
not exceed, in horizontal distance or position, the ratio of one part in 5,000,
nor in azimuth, four seconds of arc per interior angle. If field measurements
exceed this maximum, new field measurements shall be made until a satisfactory
closure of the field measurements has been obtained; the survey of the exterior
boundary shall be adjusted to form a closed geometric figure.
      (3)   Street, block, and lot dimensions. All street, block, and lot
dimensions shall be computed as closed geometric figures based upon the control
provided by the closed exterior boundary survey. If checks disclose an error
for any interior line of the plat greater than the ratio of one part in 3,000,
or an error in measured angle greater than one minute of arc for any angle
where the shorter side forming the angle is 300 feet or longer, necessary
corrections shall be made. Where the shorter side of a measured angle is less
than 300 feet in length, the error shall not exceed the value of one minute
multiplied by the quotient of 300 divided by the length of the shorter side;
however, such error shall not in any case exceed five minutes of arc.
      (4)   Plat location. Where the plat is located within a quarter section,
the corners of which have been relocated, monumented, and coordinated by the
village, the tie required by Wis. Stats. § 236.20(3)(b), may be expressed in
terms of grid bearing and distance; and the material and state plane
coordinates of the monument marking the relocated section or quarter corner to
which the plat is tied shall be indicated on the plat. The grid bearing and
distance of the tie shall be determined by a closed survey meeting the error of
closure herein specified for the survey of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision.
   (f)   Surveying and monumenting. All final plats shall meet all the
surveying and monumenting requirements of Wis. Stats. § 236.15 .
   (g)   State plane coordinate system. Where the plat is located within a
quarter section, the corners of which have been relocated, monumented, and
coordinated by the village, the plat shall be tied directly to one of the
section or quarter corners so relocated, monumented, and coordinated. The exact
grid bearing and distance of such tie shall be determined by field
measurements, and the material and state plane coordinates of the monument
marking the relocated section or quarter corner to which the plat is tied shall
be indicated on the plat. All distances and bearings shall be referenced to the
State Coordinate System, South Zone, and adjusted to the village’s control
survey.
   (h)   Certificates. All final plats shall provide all the certificates
required by Wis. Stats. § 236.21, and in addition, the surveyor shall certify
that he or she has fully complied with all the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-41)
§ 14-1-42 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFIED SURVEY LAND DIVISIONS; REVIEW
AND APPROVAL.
   (a)   Certified survey requirements. When it is proposed to divide land into
not more than four parcels or building sites, any one of which is less than
four acres in size, or when it is proposed to divide a block, lot, or outlot
into not more than four parcels or building sites within a recorded subdivision
plat without changing the exterior boundaries of the block, lot, or outlot, the
subdivider shall subdivide by use of a certified survey map, prepared in
accordance with Wis. Stats. § 236.34, and this chapter.
   (b)   Submission and review. The subdivider is encouraged to first consult
with the Plan Commission regarding the requirements for certified surveys
before submission of the final map. Following consultation, two copies of the
final map in the form of a certified survey map shall be submitted to the
village. The certified survey shall be reviewed, approved, or disapproved by
the Plan Commission and Village Board pursuant to the procedures used for
preliminary plats in §§
14-1-30 through
14-1-32, including notice and hearing requirements.
   (c)   Additional information. The certified survey map shall show correctly
on its face, in addition to the information required by Wis. Stats. § 236.34,
the following.
      (1)   All existing buildings, watercourses, drainage ditches, and other
features pertinent to proper division.
      (2)   Setbacks or building lines required by the Village Board and the
village zoning code.
      (3)   All lands reserved for future acquisition.
      (4)   Date of the map.
      (5)   Graphic scale.
      (6)   Name and address of the owner, subdivider, and surveyor.
      (7)   Square footage of each parcel.
      (8)   Present zoning for the parcels.
   (d)   State Plane Coordinate System. Where the map is located within a
quarter section, the corners of which have been relocated, monumented, and
coordinated by the village, the map shall be tied directly to one of the
section or quarter corners so relocated, monumented, and coordinated. The exact
grid bearing and distance of such tie shall be determined by field
measurements, and the material and state plane coordinate of the monument
marking the relocated section or quarter corner to which the map is tied shall
be indicated on the map. All distances and bearings shall be referenced to the
State Coordinate System, South Zone, and adjusted to the village’s control
survey.
   (e)   Certificates. The surveyor shall certify on the face of the certified
survey map that he or she has fully complied with all the provisions of this
chapter. The Village Board, after a recommendation by the reviewing agencies,
shall certify its approval on the face of the map.
   (f)   Street dedication. Dedication of streets and other public areas shall
require, in addition, the owner’s certificate and the mortgagee certificate in
substantially the same form as required by Wis. Stats. § 236.21(2)(a).
   (g)   Recordation. The subdivider shall record the map with the County
Register of Deeds within 30 days of its approval by the Village Board and any
other approving agencies. Failure to do so shall necessitate a new review and
reapproval of the map by the Village Board.
   (h)   Requirements. To the extent reasonably practicable, the certified
survey shall comply with the provisions of this chapter relating to general
requirements, design standards, and required improvements. Conveyance by metes
and bounds shall be prohibited where the lot(s) involved is less than one and
one-half acres or 300 feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-42)
§§ 14-1-43 THROUGH 14-1-49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE F: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 14-1-50 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (a)   General requirement.
      (1)   In accordance with the authority granted by Wis. Stats. § 236.13,
the village hereby requires that, as a condition of final plat or certified
survey approval, the subdivider agree to make and install all public
improvements required by this chapter and that the subdivider shall provide the
village with security to ensure that the subdivider will make the required
improvements. As a further condition of approval, the Village Board hereby
requires that the subdivider be responsible for the cost of any necessary
alterations of any existing utilities which, by virtue of the platting or
certified survey map, fall within the public right-of-way.
      (2)   As a condition for the acceptance of dedication of public rights-
of-way, the village requires that the public ways have been previously provided
with all necessary facilities constructed to village specifications, including,
but not limited to, sewerage, storm drainage, water mains and services, grading
and improvement of the streets and other public ways, sidewalks, street
signing, street lighting, and such other facilities required by the Village
Board, or that a specific portion of the costs be paid in advance as provided
in Wis. Stats. § 66.0709.
   (b)   Options.
      (1)   The required public improvements shall be installed by the
subdivider at his or her cost.
      (2)   The subdivider may petition the village for the installation of the
required improvements by village contract. The petition must be received by the
village prior to August 15 of the year preceding the required installation so
that the petition may be considered for inclusion in the village budget. If the
Village Board elects to install the petitioned improvements, it shall establish
special assessments for the recovery of the costs. The special assessments due
from the subdivider for the portion of the petitioned improvements necessary to
serve the proposed land division shall be due to the village, together with
interest, within six months of the date of village acceptance of the
improvements.
      (3)   a.   The subdivider may petition the village for the installation
of the required public improvements through the Special Assessment B Bond
process as provided for in Wis. Stats. § 66.0713(4), or another acceptable
special assessment process with the special assessments being payable at the
time of lot sale, payable in a maximum of seven annual installments together
with interest.
         b.   The village may enter into a recapture agreement with the
subdivider agreeing to require payment of recapture costs of public
improvements from those properties benefitting from the improvements. The
village shall prohibit development on those properties until payment has been
made, The subdivider may contract directly with adjacent property owners and/or
subdividers of adjacent land for reimbursement of the oversize and/or off-site
improvements constructed.
         c.   In addition to the above, the village may enter into an agreement
to reimburse the subdivider, at the end of the seven-year period, for his or
her cost (at the time of construction) of those oversized improvements
constructed within the proposed land division, but which are oversized to serve
lands beyond the boundaries of the land division or other lands within the
subdivider’s control, and which have not, during the seven-year period, been
reimbursed to the subdivider. Said payment shall be only for the actual
additional cost of constructing the oversized improvements within the
boundaries of the land division and shall not provide for payment of any
interest. The village shall then establish special assessments against those
benefitting properties outside the proposed land division boundaries or the
subdivider’s control for those costs. To be eligible to proceed under this
provision, the land division must occur within areas identified in the
village’s Master Plan or other adopted comprehensive development or public
facilities plan.
      (4)   Any workable combination of the above determined by the Village
Board as acceptable.
      (5)   If the village finds that village construction of such public
improvements would not be warranted as a special assessment to the intervening
properties, or as a governmental expense until some future time, the developer
shall be required, if he or she wishes to proceed with the development, to
obtain necessary easements or right-of-way, and construct and pay for such
public improvement extensions as provided under subsections (b)(1) or (b)(2)
above.
   (c)   General standards. The required public improvements shall be installed
in accordance with the engineering standards and specifications which have been
adopted by the Village Board, where standards and specifications have not been
adopted, the improvements shall be made in accordance with established
engineering practices, approved prior to the start of construction by the
Village Engineer. When new or revised standards and/or specifications have been
adopted by the village, work on public improvements not begun within five years
of the date of final plat adoption shall be made to the new or revised
standards and/or specifications. The Village Engineer shall review and approve
the construction plans, specifications, and calculations for the construction
of the required public improvements.
   (d)   Project manager. The subdivider shall designate a project manager who
shall be readily available on the project site during the construction of the
required public improvements. The project manager shall be granted authority on
behalf of the subdivider to make decisions related to the construction of the
required public improvements as they may arise during the course of the
construction. The project manager shall also be responsible for the scheduling
and coordination of the required work to construct the required improvements.
Correspondence with or verbal orders to the designated project manager shall
have the same authority as with the subdivider directly.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-50)
§ 14-1-51 REQUIRED AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR PROPER INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS;
SURETY.
   (a)   Contract. The subdivider shall be required to enter into a contract
with the village for land division improvements agreeing to install
improvements as herein provided before final approval of any plat or land
division. The contract form shall be provided by the village and may provide
for a phasing of public improvements construction, providing such phasing is
approved by the Village Board. The village reserves the right to control the
phasing through limits, sequence, and/or additional surety so as to provide for
continuity of streets, sewers, water mains, and other necessary public
improvements within and between the phases.
   (b)   Financial guarantees.
      (1)   The subdivider shall file with said contract, subject to the
approval of the Village Attorney, a bond, a certificate of deposit, irrevocable
letter of credit or certified check in an amount equal to 110% of the estimate
of the cost prepared by the Village Engineer as surety to guarantee that such
improvements will be completed by the subdivider or his or her contractors not
later than 18 months from the date of recording the plat or certified survey
map. When a certificate of deposit or certified check is posted as security,
the instrument must be negotiable by the village. When a letter of credit is
posted as security, the village must be the beneficiary. When the security is
furnished to insure the construction of required improvements within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, it may name the town and the
county, or either of them, as additional obligees, payees, or beneficiaries.
      (2)   When the land is situated within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the village, the subdivider shall, at the time the contract is entered,
furnish a bond, certificate of deposit, irrevocable letter of credit, or
certified check to the village in an amount equal to 25% of the estimated cost
of all required improvements as determined by the Village Engineer, excepting
the costs to be paid through special assessments or by the village.
      (3)   However, the subdivider may elect, with the approval of the
village, to install the improvements in construction phases, provided that:
         a.   The phases are specified in the contract for land division
improvements;
         b.   The developer submits surety in an amount equal to 110% of the
estimated costs of improvements next required by the installation and
construction schedules as determined by the Village Engineer. Improvements
constructed during the first stage and each successive stage of construction
shall not be accepted, nor shall any building permit be issued for construction
within the completed area of the subdivision or comprehensive development until
the security required for the next stage of construction has been posted with
the village;
         c.   The developer records deed restrictions approved by the Village
Attorney which specify that the lots which are included in future construction
phases of the land division will not be transferred or sold unless the
village’s approval is obtained;
         d.   The subdivider minimizes grading and other disturbances to lands
included in future construction phases in order to prevent erosion; and
         e.   Erosion control plans and measures submitted and approved herein
shall address the individual phases of construction.
      (4)   The time limit for completion of a phased improvement program shall
take into account the needs and desires of the village and adjacent property
owners for street and other improvements to serve lands adjacent to and within
the land division.
      (5)   As work progresses on installation of improvements constructed as
part of the contract, the Village Engineer, upon written request from the
subdivider from time to time, is authorized to recommend a reduction in the
amount of surety as hereinafter provided. When portions of construction (water,
sanitary sewer, street, sidewalk, greenway, or other improvements) are
completed by the subdivider and determined acceptable by the Village Engineer,
the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
is authorized, upon submission of lien waivers by the subdivider’s contractors,
to reduce the amount of surety. The amount of surety remaining shall be equal
to 125% of the estimate of the Village Engineer of costs of work remaining to
be completed and accepted, and to ensure performance of the one year guarantee
as specified in subsection (d) below against defects in workmanship and
materials on work accepted. When the work on the major components of
construction has been substantially completed, except for work which cannot be
completed because of weather conditions or other reasons which, in the judgment
of the Village Engineer are valid for noncompletion, the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, is authorized to accept a
reduction in the amount of surety to an amount in the estimate of the Village
Engineer, sufficient to cover the work remaining to be completed, including
performance of the one-year guarantee period against defects in workmanship and
materials. As a further guarantee that all obligations under contract for work
on the development are satisfied, the contractor and subcontractors who are to
be engaged in the construction of utilities or street improvements on the
street right-of-way to be dedicated shall be approved for such work by the
Village Engineer prior to commencing construction. The Village Board, at its
option, may extend the bond period for additional periods not to exceed one
year each.
      (6)   Governmental units to which these bond and guarantee provisions
apply may, in lieu of said contract or instrument of guarantee, file a
resolution or letter from officers authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing
to comply with the provisions of this section.
      (7)   The subdivider shall agree in the development contract to pay all
street and sidewalk assessments, specifically all area charges for sanitary
sewer mains and all water main assessments, including where the land division
abuts existing streets which are not improved within the village standard
street improvements (including, but not limited to, curb and gutter, local
storm sewer, sidewalks, and a bituminous pavement).
   (c)   Waiver of special assessment notice and hearing. The subdivider shall
file with said contract, subject to the approval of the Village Attorney, a
waiver of special assessment notices and hearings such that the subdivider, or
his or her heirs and assigns (including purchasers of property from the
subdivider), waive notice and hearing for and authorize the assessment for any
and all of the required public improvements in phases of the land division
intended for future development in accordance with Wis. Stats. § 66.0703(7)(b).
   (d)   Improvement guarantee. The subdivider shall include in said contract
an instrument of public improvement guarantee by irrevocable letter of credit,
certified check, cash escrow deposit, or performance bond whereby a bonding
company (with assets exceeding $10,000,000) and authorized to do business in
the state) guarantees maintenance, repair, replacement by the developer of said
public improvements which deteriorate or fail to meet performance or operating
standards during the bond term, or any penalties which may be incurred as a
result thereof, equal to 15% of the Village Engineer’s estimate of the cost of
the public improvements. If within one year after the date of final acceptance
of any public improvement by the Village Board (or such longer period of time
as may be prescribed by laws or regulations or by the terms of any special
guarantee required by the terms of said contract as may be necessary due to the
phasing of the construction of public improvements), any work on any public
improvement is found to be defective, the subdivider shall remove it and
replace it with nondefective work in accordance with written instructions given
by the Village Engineer. If the subdivider does not promptly comply with the
terms of such instructions, or in an emergency where delay would cause serious
risk of loss or damage, the village may cause the removal and replacement of
said defective work and charge all direct, indirect, and consequential costs of
such removal and replacement to the performance bond or improvement guarantee
instrument.
   (e)   Survey monumentation. Before final approval of any plat or certified
survey within the corporate limits of the village, the subdivider shall install
monuments placed in accordance with the requirements of Wis. Stats. Chapter
236, or as may be required by the Village Engineer. All survey monumentation
located adjacent to street or public rights-of-way, but not located within
street pavement, shall be protected with steel fence posts erected near the
survey monumentation. The Village Engineer may waive the placing of monuments
for a reasonable time during public improvement construction on the condition
that the subdivider executes a surety to ensure the placing of such monuments
within the time required. On behalf of the village, the Village Administrator,
Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, is authorized to accept
such surety bonds and contracts for monumentation in an amount approved by the
Village Engineer. Building permits shall not be issued until all survey
monumentation for the block(s) of lots in which the lot(s) for which building
permits are being applied for within the phase of the land division under
development has been installed. When the land division includes an established
one-half, one quarter, one quarter-one quarter, or other such section monument,
the established monument shall be preserved and/or fully restored by the
subdivider at his or her cost.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-51)
§ 14-1-52 REQUIRED CONSTRUCTION PLANS; VILLAGE REVIEW; INSPECTIONS.
   (a)   Engineering reports, construction plans, and specifications. As
required by §
14-1-31, engineering reports, plans, and proposed specifications shall be
submitted simultaneously with the filing of the preliminary plat. At the final
plat stage, construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all
respects with the standards of the Village Engineer and the ordinances of the
village shall be prepared at the subdivider’s expense by a professional
engineer who is registered in the state, and said plans shall contain his or
her seal. Such plans, together with the quantities of construction items, shall
be submitted to the Village Engineer for his or her approval and for his or her
estimate of the total cost of the required improvements; upon approval they
shall become a part of the contract required. Simultaneously with the filing of
the final plat with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, or as soon thereafter as practicable, copies of the
construction plans and specifications shall be furnished for the following
public improvements.
      (1)   Street plans and profiles showing existing and proposed grades,
elevations, and cross-sections of required improvements.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer plans and profiles showing the locations, grades,
sizes, elevations, and materials of required facilities.
      (3)   Storm sewer and open channel plans and profiles showing the
locations, grades, sizes, cross-sections, elevations, and materials of required
facilities;
      (4)   Water main plans and profiles showing the locations, sizes,
elevations, and materials of required facilities.
      (5)   Erosion and sedimentation control plans showing those structures
required to retard the rate of runoff water and those grading and excavating
practices that will prevent erosion and sedimentation. Such plans shall comply
with the village’s erosion control chapter (Building Code), if applicable.
      (6)   Planting plans showing the locations, age, caliper, species, and
time of planting of any required grasses, vines, shrubs, and trees.
      (7)   Additional special plans or information as required by village
officials.
   (b)   Action by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer shall review or
cause to be reviewed the plans and specifications for conformance with the
requirements of this chapter and other pertinent village ordinances and design
standards recommended by the Village Engineer and approved by the Village
Board. If the Village Engineer rejects the plans and specifications, he or she
shall notify the owner, who shall modify the plans or specifications or both
accordingly. When the plans and specifications are corrected, the Village
Engineer shall approve the plans and specifications for transmittal to the
Village Board. The Village Board shall approve the plans and specifications
before the improvements are installed and construction commenced.
   (c)   Construction and inspection.
      (1)   Prior to starting any of the work covered by the plans approved
above, written authorization to start the work shall be obtained from the
Village Engineer upon receipt of all necessary permits and in accordance with
the construction methods of this chapter. Building permits shall not be issued
until all improvements required by this chapter are satisfactorily completed.
      (2)   During the course of construction, the Village Engineer shall make
such inspections as he or she or the Village Board deems necessary to ensure
compliance with the plans and specifications as approved. The owner shall pay
the actual cost incurred by the village for such inspections. This fee shall be
the actual cost to the village of inspectors, engineers, and other parties
necessary to ensure satisfactory work.
   (d)   Subdivider to reimburse the village for costs sustained. The
subdivider of land divisions within the village shall reimburse the village for
its actual cost of design, inspection, testing, construction, and associated
legal and real estate fees for the required public improvements for the land
division. The village’s costs shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   The cost of village employees’ time engaged in any way with the
required public improvements based on the hourly rate paid to the employee,
multiplied by a factor determined by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, to represent the village’s cost for
expenses, benefits, insurance, sick leave, holidays, vacation, and similar
benefits.
      (2)   The cost of village equipment employed.
      (3)   The cost of mileage reimbursed to village employees which is
attributed to the land division.
      (4)   The actual costs of village materials incorporated into the work,
including transportation costs plus a restocking and/or handling fee not to
exceed 10% of the cost of the materials.
      (5)   1.   All consultant fees associated with the public improvements at
the invoiced amount plus administrative costs. Unless the amount totals less
than $50, the village shall bill the subdivider monthly for expenses incurred
by the village.
         2.   Statements outstanding for more than 30 days shall accrue
interest at the rate of 1-1/2% per month. Bills outstanding for more than 90
days shall be forwarded to the subdivider’s surety agency for payment. Amounts
less than $50 shall be held for billing by the village until amounts total more
than $50 or until the conclusion of project activities.
   (e)   Record plans. After completion of all public improvements and prior to
final acceptance of said improvements, the subdivider shall make or cause to be
made two copies of record plans showing the actual “as-built” location of all
valves, manholes, stubs, sewers, and water mains, and such other facilities as
the Village Engineer shall require. These plans shall be prepared on the
original Mylars of the construction plans and shall bear the signature and seal
of a professional engineer registered in the state. The presentation of the
record plans shall be a condition of final acceptance of the improvements and
release of the surety bond assuring their completion.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-52)
§ 14-1-53 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider shall construct streets, roads, and alleys as outlined on the
approved plans based on the requirements of this chapter, particularly §§
14-1-70 and
14-1-71.
   (a)   General considerations. The streets shall be designed and located in
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions and
natural terrain features such as streams and existing tree growth, to public
convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the land to be served by such streets.
   (b)   Construction standards. Construction of all streets shall conform to
the current standards as established by the village in this chapter and
elsewhere, and shall be subject to approval of the Village Engineer before
acceptance.
   (c)   Conform to official map. The arrangement, width, grade, and location
of all streets shall conform to the official map.
   (d)   Survey monumentation. Before final approval of any plat or certified
survey within the corporate limits of the village, the subdivider shall install
monuments placed in accordance with the requirements of Wis. Stats. Chapter
236, or as may be required by the Village Engineer. All survey monumentation
located adjacent to street or public rights-of-way, but not located within
street payment, shall be protected with steel fence posts erected near the
survey monumentation. The Village Engineer may waive the placing of monuments
for a reasonable time during public improvement construction on condition that
the subdivider executes a survey to ensure the placing of such monuments within
the time required. On behalf of the village, the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, is authorized to accept such
surety bonds and contracts for monumentation in an amount approved by the
Village Engineer. Building permits shall not be issued until all survey
monumentation for the blocks) of lots in which the lot(s) for which building
permits are being applied for within the phase of the land division under
development has been installed. When the land division includes and established
one-half, one-quarter, one-quarter one-quarter, or such other section monument,
the established monument shall be preserved and/or fully restored by the
subdivider at his or her cost.
   (e)   Street construction. After the installation of all required utility
and stormwater drainage improvements, the subdivider shall prepare for
surfacing all roadways in streets proposed to be dedicated, to the widths
prescribed by these regulations, by placing crushed rock on said roadways and,
in addition, shall surface said street, in a manner and quality consistent with
this chapter and plans and specifications approved by the Village Engineer.
Construction shall be to village standard specifications for street
improvements.
   (f)   Street cross-sections. When permanent street cross-sections have been
approved by the village, the subdivider shall finish grade all shoulders and
road ditches, install all necessary culverts at intersections and, if required,
surface ditch inverts to prevent erosion and sedimentation in accordance with
plans and standard specifications approved by the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-53)
§ 14-1-54 CURB AND GUTTER; DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (a)   (1)   After the installation of all utility and stormwater drainage
improvements, the subdivider shall be required to construct concrete curbs and
gutters or, if approved by the village, a system of ditches and culverts. The
subdivider shall install concrete curb and gutter along both sides of all
streets and boulevards shown on the plat.
      (2)   The cost of the curb and gutter required inspection, supervision,
and engineering fees shall be paid for by the subdivider. Wherever possible,
provision shall be made at the time of construction for driveway access curb
cuts. The cost of installation of all inside curbs and gutters for dual roadway
pavements shall be borne by the village.
   (b)   (1)   Suitable concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed along the
outside edge of all street pavements. Curb and gutter in residential areas
shall have a six-inch barrier curb with a 24-inch flag, except at driveway
aprons where depressed curb shall be constructed. Depressed curb ramps shall be
constructed at all handicap ramps for sidewalks and at all bikeways. Said curbs
and gutters shall be constructed of concrete, 3500 psi strength at 14 days, and
contain two continuous one-half inch diameter reinforcing rods in the gutter
flag at locations crossing underground utility excavations or where otherwise
directed by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Expansion joints three-quarter inch thick shall be placed m the
curb at each starting and ending of a radius and at intervals not exceeding 250
feet and where otherwise directed by the Village Engineer. The bars shall be
provided where curb and gutter is adjacent to rigid pavements.
   (c)   Contraction joints shall be tooled, saw cut, or formed by insertion of
a metal plate in the concrete at intervals not exceeding ten feet, and on each
side of any structures located in the concrete (for example, inlets).
(Prior Code, § 14-1-54)
§ 14-1-55 SIDEWALKS AND BIKEWAYS.
   (a)   Where required. Sidewalks shall be required as follows.
      (1)   General business. Sidewalks shall be provided with concrete
sidewalks at least eight feet wide and four inches thick.
      (2)   Residential property. Sidewalks shall be provided with a concrete
sidewalk along each side of the street four feet wide and four inches thick
with a minimum of six inches at established driveway crossings.
   (b)   Extra-sized sidewalks. Wider-than-standard sidewalks may be required
by the Village Board in the vicinity of schools, commercial areas, and other
places of public assemblage; and the Village Board may require the construction
of sidewalks in locations other than required under the preceding provisions of
this section if such walks are necessary, in their opinion, for safe and
adequate pedestrian circulation.
   (c)   Location.
      (1)   The subdivider shall be required to provide sidewalks and bikeways
to village specifications as follows: Sidewalks and bikeways shall normally be
located as far from the traffic lane as is possible, but not closer than six
inches to the right-of-way line. Where, as a result of such major obstructions
as large and established trees, steep hills, drainageways, or major utility
lines, the construction costs of the sidewalk or bikeway in its normal location
would be prohibitive, sidewalks or bikeways may be located elsewhere within the
street right-of-way, or within an easement, with the approval of the Village
Engineer. Sidewalks and bikeways constructed at street intersections or within
five feet of a legal crosswalk shall include provisions for curb ramping as
required by Wis. Stats. § 66.0909, and in accordance with village standards. In
all cases where the grades or sidewalks or bikeways have not been specifically
fixed by ordinance, the sidewalks and bikeways shall be laid to the established
grade of the street (Wis. Stats. § 66.0907(2)). In areas where sidewalks and
bikeways are to be laid to the established grade of the street, the street edge
of the sidewalk or bikeway pavement shall be at an elevation above the top of
the curb determined by a slope of one-half inch per foot times the distance
between the curb and the street sidewalk or bikeway edge. The sidewalk or
bikeway pavement shall be sloped at a minimum of one-fourth inch per foot and a
maximum of three-fourths inch per foot toward the street, unless public
drainage is available behind the sidewalk or bikeway.
      (2)   Sidewalks in street right-of-ways shall be specifically intended to
serve adjacent lots and the pedestrian traffic generated from and to those
lots.
   (d)   Bikeways.
      (1)   Bikeways shall be intended to serve both pedestrian and bicycle
traffic in areas where the majority of the adjoining lots do not have frontage
or access to the street or are not being served by the bikeway. In general,
those lots which do not front or have access on the street in question are not
the generating or terminating point for the pedestrian or bicycle traffic.
      (2)   More specifically, bikeways shall be designed to transport the
majority of pedestrian or bike traffic through the area as opposed to serving
the adjoining lots as a sidewalk does.
      (3)   Bikeways shall not be installed in lieu of sidewalks. However,
where permitted by village ordinance, persons may ride a bicycle upon public
sidewalks.
   (e)   Location determination. The Village Engineer shall determine where
sidewalks and/or bikeways are required in accordance with this section.
   (f)   Construction standards. Bikeways shall be constructed of bituminous
pavement, at least eight feet in width, in accordance with standard village
specifications. Sidewalks shall be constructed according to the standards in §
6-2-2.
   (g)   Required locations. The subdivider shall be required to install
sidewalks and/or bikeways in accordance with the following.
      (1)   All through highways, or extensions thereof, shall have sidewalks
and/or bikeways installed in any number of block-long increments between
consecutive intersections (one block being from one intersection to the next
consecutive intersection) regardless of length or location within or outside of
plat boundaries.
      (2)   Other streets, both major and minor, which serve as major
pedestrian access routes to and from such pedestrian traffic generators as
business establishments, restaurants, schools, neighborhood parks, high density
multi-family developments, and the like.
   (3)   All streets which currently have sidewalk along only a portion of
street between consecutive intersections shall be completed from intersection
to intersection.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-55)
Cross-reference:
   Construction and repair of sidewalks, see §
6-2-2
§ 14-1-56 SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (a)   There shall be provided a sanitary sewerage system to all lots,
approved by the Village Engineer. The subdivider shall install adequate
sanitary sewer facilities and connect them to village sewer mains subject to
specifications and inspection by the Village Engineer. All sanitary sewers
shall be in accordance with Wis. Admin. Code, Chapter NR 110. The subdivider
shall pay all the costs of all sanitary sewer work including the bringing of
the sanitary sewer of adequate capacity and depth from where it exists to the
land division in question, as well as providing all sanitary sewer work within
the land division.
   (b)   Sanitary sewers, including all related items (manholes, wyes, tees,
stubs for future extensions, and the like), shall be installed meeting the
specifications and requirements of the village. Where sewers larger than eight
inches in diameter are required, the land divider shall be responsible for the
cost of an eight-inch sewer. The difference in cost between the eight-inch
sewer and that installed shall be borne by the village.
   (c)   The subdivider shall construct sanitary sewers in such a manner as to
make adequate sanitary sewerage service available to each lot within the
subdivision. Where public sanitary sewers of adequate capacity are determined
by the Village Engineer to be available, extensions of the public sanitary
sewer system shall be made so as to provide sewer service to each lot. Gravity
sanitary sewers shall be extended to the land division and to each buildable
lot in accordance with Village Comprehensive Sanitary Sewer Plans, as
determined by the Village Engineer. Sewerage service lines of the sizes and
materials required by the Plumbing Inspector shall be installed from the
sanitary sewers to the property line of every lot in the subdivision. This
installation will be coordinated with the installation of sanitary sewers. The
size, type, and installation of all sanitary sewers proposed to be constructed
shall be in accordance with plans and standard specifications approved by the
Village Engineer. All sanitary sewer facilities shall be floodproofed.
   (d)   The ends of the services for each lot shall be accurately measured and
recorded with the Village Engineer, and marked in the field with appropriate
staking.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-56)
§ 14-1-57 WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES.
   (a)   (1)   There shall be provided a water supply system in conformity with
the Master Plan of the water system as approved by village utilities. The
subdivider shall install and connect village water to serve all lots subject to
specifications and inspection by the village utilities and the state. The
subdivider shall pay all costs of installing and connecting adequate village
water, including the bringing of water from where it exists to the land
division in question as well as providing all waterworks within the land
division. The subdivider shall provide for a minimum water main diameter of
eight inches and the location of public fire hydrants along the public streets
at not greater than a 600 foot spacing. Fire hydrants which have not passed
testing or have not been operationalized shall be covered with securely
attached bags to preclude their being inadvertently used by the Fire Department
in an emergency situation.
      (2)   The land divider shall have prepared plan and profile drawings and
specifications for the installation of water main facilities in accordance with
Village Master Water Main Plan, including the water main, pipe fittings,
valves, hydrants, and lateral house-connections for each lot in the subdivision
extended to the lot line. Upon approval of the plans by the Village Engineer
and by village utilities, the land divider shall cause to be installed, in
accordance with the “Standard Specifications for Sewer and Water Construction
in Wisconsin,” all facilities required, and the cost of same, including
inspection. Supervision and engineering fees shall be paid for by the
subdivider.
      (3)   Where water mains larger than eight inches in diameter are
required, the subdivider shall be responsible for the cost of an eight inch
main. The difference in cost between the eight inch main and that installed
shall be borne by the village or its utilities.
      (4)   The rules of the village’s utilities on file with the State Public
Service Commission are hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof as
though fully set forth herein.
   (b)   The subdivider shall construct water mains in such a manner as to make
adequate water service available to each lot within the land division.
Extensions of the public water supply system shall be designed so as to provide
public water service to each lot and required fire flow protection to each
hydrant. The size, type, and installation of all public water mains proposed to
be constructed shall be in accordance with plans and standard specifications
approved by the Village Engineer.
   (c)   The subdivider shall construct sanitary sewers in such a manner as to
make adequate sanitary sewerage service available to each lot within the
subdivision. Where public sanitary sewers of adequate capacity are determined
by the Village Engineer to be available, extensions of the public sanitary
sewer system shall be made so as to provide sewer service to each lot. Gravity
sanitary sewers shall be extended to the land division and to each buildable
lot in accordance with Village Comprehensive Sanitary Sewer Plans as determined
by the Village Engineer. Sewerage service lines of the sizes and materials
required by the Plumbing Inspector shall be installed from the sanitary sewers
to the property line of every lot in the subdivision. This installation will be
coordinated with the installation of sanitary sewers. The size, type, and
installation of all sanitary sewers proposed to be constructed shall be in
accordance with plans and standard specifications approved by the Village
Engineer. All sanitary sewer facilities shall be floodproofed.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-57)
§ 14-1-58 STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   Pursuant to §
14-1-74, the subdivider shall provide stormwater drainage facilities which
include curb and gutter, manholes, catch basins and inlets, storm sewers, storm
sewer laterals from the main to the lot line, road ditches, and open channels,
as may be required. All such facilities are to be of adequate size and grade to
hydraulically accommodate maximum potential volumes of flow, the type of
facility required, the design criteria and the sizes and grades to be
determined by the Village Engineer. Storm sewer laterals of the sizes and
materials required by the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer shall be
installed from the mains to the lot line of every lot in the subdivision when
storm sewer mains shall be required by this section. Storm drainage facilities
shall be so designed as to present no hazard to life or property, minimize
shoreland erosion, and siltation of surface waters, shall prevent excess run-
off on adjacent property and shall provide positive drainage away from onsite
sewage disposal facilities. The size, type, and installation of all stormwater
drain and sewers proposed to be constructed shall be in accordance with this
chapter, and plans and standard specifications approved by the Village
Engineer. Storm drainage facilities shall be so designed as to minimize hazards
to life or property, and the size, type, and installation of all stormwater
drains and sewers proposed to be constructed shall be in accordance with the
plans and specifications approved by the Village Engineer. Storm sewers
oversized to handle runoff from offsite properties will be installed by the
subdivider; however, the cost of oversizing above a 24-inch diameter storm
sewer shall be paid by other users connecting to the system.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-58)
§ 14-1-59 OTHER UTILITIES.
   (a)   (1)   Insofar as possible, all utilities, including, but not limited
to, natural gas, telephone, cable television, electric, and water, shall be
installed underground with an affidavit by the subdivider that the maintenance
of said public improvements will be guaranteed by the subdivider due to use of
the improvements by purchasers and construction traffic.
      (2)   Prior to any maintenance, repair, or replacement being performed by
the developer during the bond period, it shall notify the Village Engineer at
least one work day prior to the doing of the work and obtain approval of the
Village Engineer as to the nature and manner of work to be done.
   (b)   The subdivider shall cause gas, electric power, cable television, and
telephone facilities to be installed in such a manner as to make adequate
service available to each lot in the subdivision, certified survey, or land
division. All new electrical distribution television cables and telephone lines
from which lots are individually served shall be underground unless the Village
Board, upon the recommendation of pertinent village utilities or Plan
Commission, specifically allows overhead poles for the following reasons:
      (1)   Topography, soil, water table, solid rock, boulders, or other
physical conditions would make underground installation unreasonable or
impractical; or
      (2)   The lots to be served by said facilities can be served directly
from existing overhead facilities.
   (c)   Plans indicating the proposed location of all gas, electrical power,
cable television, and telephone distribution and transmission lines required to
service the plat shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-59)
§ 14-1-60 STREET LAMPS; STREET TREES.
   (a)   Street lighting. The subdivider shall install street lamps along all
streets proposed to be dedicated of a design compatible with the neighborhood
and type of development proposed. Such lamps shall be placed at each street
intersection and at such interior block spacing as may be required by the
Village Engineer.
   (b)   Street trees. Street trees shall be planted throughout all residential
land divisions. Such trees shall be planted in the parkways equidistant between
the sidewalks and curb, or in street tree easements, and no closer than five
feet from any sanitary sewer service, water service, or driveway apron. The
trees shall be spaced not more than 50 feet apart. At street corners, trees
shall be located at least 20 feet from the intersection of right-of-way lines.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-60)
§ 14-1-61 STREET SIGNS.
   (a)   The subdivider shall arrange with the village and pay the costs of
providing the street signing necessary to serve the development. Such signing
shall include street name signs and such temporary barricades and “road closed”
signs as may be required by the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works
until the street improvements have been accepted by Village Board resolution.
   (b)   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to impose any
restrictions to traffic on street improvements not yet accepted by the village
as he or she may deem necessary to protect the improvements from damage and to
protect the safety of the public. Such restrictions shall include, but not be
limited by, enumeration to weight restrictions, street closings, access
restrictions, or the posting of temporary traffic control measures.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-61)
§ 14-1-62 EROSION CONTROL.
   The subdivider shall cause all gradings, excavations, open cuts, side
slopes, and other land surface disturbances to be mulched, seeded, sodded, or
otherwise protected so that erosion, siltation, sedimentation, and washing are
prevented. The subdivider shall submit an erosion control plan that specifies
measures that will be taken to assure the minimization of erosion problems.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-62)
§ 14-1-63 PARTITION FENCES.
   When the land included in a subdivision plat or certified map abuts upon or
is adjacent to land used for farming or grazing purposes, the subdivider shall
erect, keep, and maintain partition fences, satisfying the requirements of the
state statutes for a legal and sufficient fence, between such land and the
adjacent land. A covenant binding the developer, its grantees, heirs,
successors, and assigns to erect and maintain such fences, without cost to the
adjoining property owners, so long as the land is used for farming or grazing
purposes, shall be included upon the face of the final plat or certified survey
map.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-63)
§ 14-1-64 EASEMENTS.
   (a)   Utility easements. The Village Board, on the recommendation of
appropriate departments, utilities and agencies serving the village, shall
require utility easements for poles, wire, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers,
gas, water and head mains, or other utility lines. It is the intent of this
chapter to protect all established easements so as to assure proper grade,
assure maintenance of the established grade, prohibit construction of permanent
fences or retaining walls over underground installation, and prevent the
planting of trees in the easement area.
   (b)   Drainage easements. Drainage easements shall comply with the
requirements of §
14-1-74(e).
   (c)   Easement locations.
      (1)   Utility easements shall be at least 12 feet wide, or wider where
recommended by the Village Engineer, and may run across lots or alongside of
rear lot lines. Such easements should preferably be located along rear lot
lines. Evidence shall be furnished the Plan Commission that easements and any
easement provisions to be incorporated in the plat or in deeds have been
reviewed by the individual utility companies or the organization responsible
for furnishing the services involved.
      (2)   All easements dedicated on final plat or certified survey maps for
survey maps for poles, cables or conduits for electricity, telephone, or other
private utility lines shall be noted thereon as “Utility Easement.” All
easements for storm and sanitary sewers, water and force mains, pedestrian
walks, and other public purposes shall be noted thereon as “Public Easement
for” followed by reference to the use or uses for which they are intended.
   (d)   Deed restrictions for easements. Deed restrictions shall accompany
each final plat or certified survey map, and shall be filed in the Register of
Deed’s office. In addition to whatever else may be contained therein, such
restrictions shall describe the location and width of utility and public
easements which are being established; a description by reference to the final
plat or certified survey map shall suffice. Such restrictions shall further
recite that the utility companies and the public agencies using such easements
are granted the right to place, and shall state that the elevation of such
easements as graded by the subdivider may not be altered thereafter by him or
her, or any subsequent landowner by more than six inches.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-64)
§ 14-1-65 EXTRA-SIZED AND OFF-SITE FACILITIES.
   When any public improvements of adequate capacity are not available at the
boundary of a proposed land division, the village, or its duly authorized
representative, shall require, as a prerequisite to approval of a final plat or
certified survey map, assurances that such improvement extensions shall be
provided as follows, in accordance with the following standards.
   (a)   Design capacity. All improvements within or entering or leaving the
proposed development shall be installed to satisfy the service requirements for
the entire service or drainage area in which the development is located and the
improvements shall be of sufficient capacity to handle the expected development
of the overall service area involved.
   (b)   Extra-sized and off-size improvements. Where improvements of adequate
size needed to serve the development are not available at the boundary of the
development, the subdivider shall proceed under one of the alternatives as
identified in §
14-1-50(a).
   (c)   Lift stations. Where sanitary or storm sewer lift stations and force
mains are required to lift sewage to the gravity system, the subdivider shall
have plans, profiles, specifications, and estimated operation and maintenance
costs prepared for the installation of such facilities to the Village
Engineer’s requirements. Equipment similar to existing village equipment shall
be utilized whenever possible. The installation, inspection, supervision, and
engineering fees for lift stations and/or force mains shall be paid for by the
subdivider unless otherwise determined and agreed upon by the Village Board.
Gravity sanitary sewer service shall be employed whenever determined by the
Village Engineer to be feasibly accessible.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-65)
§ 14-1-66 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND DEDICATIONS.
   (a)   Acceptance of improvements. The dedication of any improvements,
utilities, streets, parks, easements, rights-of-way, or other lands or rights
to the village or the public shall not be considered accepted by the village
for public ownership until such time as the required public improvements within
the intended dedication or necessary because of the intended dedication have
been completed and accepted by the Village Board by adoption of a resolution
accepting such dedication. The subdivider shall be responsible for and liable
for the maintenance, safety, and operation of all required public improvements
until such time as the improvements are accepted by the Village Board by
resolution. In the event the village must take measures to maintain, operate,
or make safe a public improvement existing or required as a result of the land
division but which has not yet been accepted by the village, the costs of such
measures shall hereby be determined to be village-incurred costs to be
reimbursed to the village by the subdivider in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (b)   Inspection and certification of improvements.
      (1)   After any of the following increments of the required improvements
have been installed and completed, the subdivider shall notify the Village
Engineer, in writing, that the work is complete and ready for final inspection,
shall file reproducible record drawings of the completed improvements and shall
file lien waivers or affidavits, in a form acceptable to the Village Engineer
and approved by the Village Attorney, evidencing that there are no claims,
actions, or demands for damages, based upon contract or tort arising out of or
in any way related to the project, and that no monies are owned to any
surveyor, mechanic, contractor, subcontractor, materialman, or laborer after
all required improvements have been installed. Acceptance of the improvements
may be requested in the following increments.
         a.   Sewer mains and services (either storm or sanitary).
         b.   Water mains and services.
         c.   Streets comprised of all grading, gravel, curb and gutter,
culverts, and paving.
         d.   Other miscellaneous appurtenances to the above increments such as
sidewalks, bikeways, street lighting, street signing, and the like.
      (2)   The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, shall certify that there are no unpaid taxes or unpaid special
assessments on any of the lands included in the area of acceptance, and shall
prepare a final billing for the engineer, inspection and legal fees, and submit
it to the subdivider for payment. The Village Engineer shall conduct any
necessary final inspections of the improvements and forward a report to the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
recommending either approval or disapproval. When the engineering, inspection,
taxes, special assessments, and legal fees have been paid and when the
necessary lien waivers and affidavits have been filed, the report of the
Village Engineer, together with the recommendation of the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall be
forwarded to the Village Board for approval and acceptance of the improvements
and dedications.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-66)
§ 14-1-67 SITE GRADING.
   The subdivider shall be required to grade the full land division in
accordance with the requirements of §
14-1-76.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-67)
§§ 14-1-68 THROUGH 14-1-69 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE G: DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 14-1-70 GENERAL STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (a)   Compliance with statutes. In laying out a subdivision, the owner shall
conform to the provisions of Wis. Stats. Chapter 236, and all applicable
village regulations. In all cases where the requirements of this chapter are
different from the requirements of Wis. Stats. Chapter 236, the more
restrictive provision shall apply.
   (b)   Dedication. The subdivider shall dedicate land and improve streets as
provided in this chapter and §
14-1-53. Streets shall be located with due regard for topographical conditions,
natural features, existing and proposed streets, utilities and land uses, and
public convenience and safety. Streets shall conform to official maps adopted
by the Village Board. The subdivision, certified survey parcel or land division
shall be so designed as to provide each lot with satisfactory access to a
public street or road.
   (c)   Compliance with comprehensive plan and ordinances.
      (1)   The arrangement, character, features, and layout of land divisions
in the village shall be designed to comply with the standards of this chapter,
the comprehensive plan, the official map, and/or any comprehensive utility
plans or other planning documents which may pertain to the standards of design
for land divisions and which have been adopted by the Village Board. Where no
such planning documents have been adopted, subdivisions shall be designed
according to engineering and planning standards approved by the Village
Engineer and applied so as to properly relate the proposed development with
adjacent development, the topography, natural features, public safety, and
convenience, and the most advantageous development of undeveloped adjacent
lands. The absence of a street being shown on the official map, streets shall
be provided in locations determined necessary by the Village Engineer and to
the right-of-way widths required in this article for the classification of
street required.
      (2)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of
all streets shall conform to village master plans, the official map, and to
this chapter, and other village planning documents and shall be considered in
their relation to: existing and planned streets; reasonable circulation of
traffic; topographical conditions; run-off of stormwater; public convenience
and safety; and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land
to be served by such streets.
      (3)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the appropriate continuation at the same or greater width of the existing
streets in adjoining areas.
   (d)   Areas not covered by official map or plan. In areas not covered by an
official map or a Village Comprehensive Plan, the layout of streets shall
conform to the plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas of
the neighborhood. Streets shall be designed and located in relation to existing
and officially planned streets, topography and natural terrain, streams and
lakes, and existing tree growth, public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed use of the land to be served by such
streets.
   (e)   Proposed streets. Proposed streets shall extend to the boundary lines
of the tract being subdivided unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions or unless, in the opinion of the Village Board, such extension is
not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision or land division or for the advantageous development of the
adjacent tracts.
   (f)   Streets classifications. Streets shall be required and classified by
the Village Engineer in accordance with the village’s Comprehensive Plan and
where not identified in said plan, in accordance with sound engineering
standards, into the classifications indicated below.
      (1)   Arterial streets. Arterial streets shall be arranged to provide
through traffic for a heavy volume of vehicles. Arterial streets shall have a
right-of-way width of not less than 86 feet for a median-divided roadway, nor
less than 66 feet for a single roadway, with a roadway width of 36 feet.
      (2)   Collector streets. Collector streets shall be arranged so as to
provide ready collection of traffic from individual areas and conveyance of
this traffic to the major street and highway system and shall be properly
related to special traffic generators such as schools, churches, and shopping
centers and other concentrations of population and to the major streets into
which they feed. Collector streets have a right-of-way width of not less than
66 feet, with a roadway width of 36 feet.
      (3)   Local/minor streets. Local streets shall be arranged to conform to
the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit the design of
efficient storm and sanitary sewerage systems, and to require the minimum
street area necessary to provide safe and convenient access to abutting
property. Local streets have a right-of-way width of not less than 60 feet,
with a roadway width of 32 feet.
      (4)   Alleys. Alleys shall be located at rear property lines, shall
discourage through traffic, shall serve less than 50 vehicles/day, shall be
intended to provide access to off-street loading and service areas, and not
primary access to parcels.
   (g)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips shall not be provided on any plat to
control access to streets or alleys, except where control of such strips is
placed with the village under conditions approved by the Village Board.
   (h)   Extraterritorial streets. Streets located in the extraterritorial plat
jurisdiction of the village shall provide for the dedication of the minimum
widths of right-of-way in accordance with the standards of this chapter.
Extraterritorial streets within the urban service area shall be provided to the
structural standards of this chapter and minimum pavement widths of 24 feet,
and without curb and gutter. Other streets within the extraterritorial plat
jurisdiction of the village shall meet or exceed the town road standards of
Wis. Stats. § 86.31.
   (i)   Alleys; cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial. Alleys shall be provided in all
commercial and industrial districts, except that the Village Board, upon the
Plan Commission’s recommendation, may waive this requirement where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street
loading and parking, consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. The
width of the right-of-way for residential alleys shall be not less than 24 feet
and the width of the right-of-way for commercial and industrial alleys shall be
not less than 30 feet. Alley rights-of-way shall be 50 feet. Alleys shall be
constructed according to base and surfacing requirements for streets.
      (2)   Residential. Alleys shall not be approved in residential areas
unless necessary because of topography or other exceptional circumstances.
      (3)   Dead end. Dead-end alleys are prohibited except under very unusual
circumstances, and crooked and “T” alleys shall be discouraged. Temporary dead-
end streets shall not be over 1,000 feet in total length, shall provide for an
eventual intersection spacing meeting the requirements of this chapter, and
shall provide for temporary cul-de-sacs or turnarounds as approved by the
Village Engineer.
      (4)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets designed to have one end
permanently closed shall not exceed 700 feet in length and shall terminate with
a turnaround of not less than 120 feet in diameter and a roadway turnaround of
96 feet in diameter. In all cul-de-sacs, there shall be an unobstructed sight
distance from the intersection of the intersecting street to the far end of the
cul-de-sac bulb.
   (j)   Continuation. Streets shall be laid out to provide for possible
continuation wherever topographic and other physical conditions permit. The use
of cul-de-sacs shall be held to a minimum and permanently dead ended streets
shall be prohibited. Provisions shall be made so that all proposed streets
shall have a direct connection with, or be continuous and in line with,
existing, planned, or platted streets with which they are to connect. Proposed
streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided,
unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or unless in the
opinion of the Village Board, upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission,
such extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout
of the subdivision with existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
   (k)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so laid out so as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   (l)   Frontage roads. Where a land division abuts or contains an existing or
proposed arterial highway, or railroad right-of-way, the subdivider shall
provide a frontage road, platted access restriction along the property
contiguous to such highway, or such other treatment as may be determined
necessary by the Village Engineer to ensure safe, efficient traffic flow and
adequate protection of residential properties.
   (m)   Private streets. Private streets shall not be approved nor shall
public improvements be approved for any private street; all streets shall be
dedicated for public use.
   (n)   Horizontal curves. When connecting street lines, deflect from each
other at any one point by more than five degrees, they shall be connected by a
curve with a radius of not less than 150 feet on local streets, 250 feet on
collector streets, and 450 feet on arterial streets.
   (o)   Visibility. Streets shall afford maximum visibility and safety for
motorist, bicycle, and pedestrian use, and shall intersect at right angles,
where practicable. A minimum sight distance with clear visibility, measured
along the centerline, shall be provided of at least 500 feet on major
thoroughfares, 200 feet on collector-distributor streets, and 120 feet on all
other streets.
   (p)   Tangents. A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be required between
reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   (q)   Street grades. The grade of major thoroughfares and collector streets
shall not exceed 6% unless necessitated by exceptional topography and approved
by the Plan Commission. Grades of local streets shall not exceed 10%. The
minimum grade of all streets shall be 0.4%.
   (r)   Vertical curves. All changes in street grades shall be connected by
vertical curves of a minimum length, in feet, equivalent to 20 times the
algebraic difference in the rate of grade for major thoroughfares, and one-half
this minimum length for all other streets.
   (s)   Half streets. Half streets shall not be platted unless necessary to
provide the full width of an existing street platted to half width. All newly
platted streets shall be platted to the required hill width. Where a half
street exists adjacent to a proposed land division, the subdivider shall
endeavor to acquire and dedicate the remaining half street.
   (t)   Intersections.
      (1)   Angle of intersect. Streets shall intersect each other at as nearly
right angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit.
The curved street shall intersect another street with not less than 15 feet of
tangent right-of-way between the end of curvature and the right-of-way of the
street being intersected.
      (2)   Number of streets converging. The number of streets converging at
one intersection shall be reduced to a minimum, preferably not more than two.
Cross-type intersections on local streets shall be avoided whenever possible in
favor of T-type intersections. Intersections of local streets shall be at least
125 feet from each other.
      (3)   Number of intersections; arterial streets. The number of
intersections along arterial streets shall be held to a minimum. Wherever
practicable, the distance between such intersections shall be not less than
1,200 feet, unless otherwise determined by the Village Engineer to provide
better safety.
      (4)   Local street spacing. Local streets and frontage roads intersecting
with other local streets or collector streets shall, wherever practicable, be
spaced no closer than 150 feet between right-of-way lines, nor closer than 250
feet to the right-of-way of an arterial street.
      (5)   Property lines at street intersections. Property lines at street
intersections shall be rounded with a minimum radius of 25 feet or of a greater
radius when required by the Village Engineer.
      (6)   Local streets. Local streets shall not necessarily continue across
arterial or collector streets, but if the centerlines of such local streets
approach the major streets from opposite sides within 300 feet of each other,
measured along the centerline of the arterial or collector streets, then the
location shall be so adjusted that the adjoinment across the major or collector
street is continuous and a jog is avoided.
      (7)   Additional sight easements. At any intersection determined by the
Village Engineer, restricted development easements or additional street right-
of-way shall be platted to provide for adequate sight distances in every
direction of travel. At a minimum, the subdivider shall grade, clear, or
otherwise provide for an unobstructed sight triangle at all intersections
incorporating the area within a triangle formed by the intersection of the
street right-of-way lines and a point on each right-of-way line being not less
than 30 feet from the intersection point.
   (u)   Street names.
      (1)   New street names shall not duplicate the names of existing streets,
but streets that are continuations of others already in existence and named
shall bear the names of the existing streets. Street names shall be subject to
approval by the Village Board.
      (2)   All streets shall be named in conformity with the street naming
plan of the village or with adjoining streets. In the case of diverging
streets, the name shall be repeated. New street names shall not duplicate the
names of existing streets, provided, however, that streets that are obviously
in alignment with others already existing and names shall bear the names of the
existing streets. Long or continuous thoroughfares running north and south
shall be named avenues; those running east and west shall be named streets;
diagonal thoroughfares shall be named roads; and curving thoroughfares shall be
named drives. Short or discontinuous thoroughfares running north and south
shall be named courts; those running east and west shall be named places;
diagonal thoroughfares shall be named ways; and curving thoroughfares shall be
named lanes.
   (v)   Limited access highway and railroad right-of-way treatment. Whenever
the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a limited access highway,
arterial street, or railroad right-of-way, the design shall provide the
following treatment.
      (1)   Subdivision lots. When lots within the proposed subdivision back
upon the right-of-way of an existing or proposed limited access highway or a
railroad, a planting strip at least 30 feet in depth shall be provided adjacent
to the highway or railroad in addition to the normal lot depth. This strip
shall be part of the platted lots but shall have the following restriction
lettered on the face of the plat: “This strip reserved for the planting of
trees and shrubs, the building of structures hereon prohibited.”
      (2)   Commercial and Industrial Districts. Commercial and industrial
districts shall have provided, on each side of the limited access highway,
arterial street, or railroad, streets approximately parallel to and at a
suitable distance from such highway or railroad for the appropriate use of the
land between such streets and highway or railroad, but not less than 150 feet.
      (3)   Streets parallel to a limited access highway. Streets parallel to a
limited access highway or railroad right-of-way, when intersecting a major
street and highway or collector street which crosses said railroad or highway,
shall be located at a minimum distance of 250 feet from said highway or
railroad right-of-way. Such distance, where desirable and practicable, shall be
determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for the
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
      (4)   Minor streets. Minor streets immediately adjacent and parallel to
railroad rights-of-way shall be avoided, and location of minor streets
immediately adjacent to arterial streets and highways and to railroad rights-
of-way shall be avoided in residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-70)
§ 14-1-71 SPECIFICATIONS FOR PREPARATION, CONSTRUCTION, AND DEDICATION OF
STREETS AND ROADS.
   (a)   General requirements.
      (1)   Construction standards.
         a.   All roadway construction and materials used shall be performed in
accordance with the construction methods as listed in the appropriate sections
of the “State of Wisconsin Department of Transportation Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction” and its supplements, and this chapter,
whichever is more restrictive. The design requirements of this section and §
14-1-70 shall be applicable to all streets and roads that are to be dedicated
to the village, regardless of whether such streets or roads are part of a new
subdivision or land division.
         b.   Design requirements for the pavement shall be adequate for the
zoning classification of the area served by the subject street. A street which
divides areas with different zoning classifications shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the area requiring the higher quality
pavement. Any variation of this must have prior approval of the Village
Engineer.
         c.   Combination concrete curb and gutter is required on all streets
(refer to the Section describing requirements for curbs and gutters). A copy of
all design assumptions and computations on which the proposed design is based
shall be submitted to the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Project costs. All roadway surveys, dedications, plans, and
specifications and construction will be at the expense of the applicant or
applicants. This includes any expense incurred by the village in the
preparation of plans and review and inspection of plans and construction.
      (3)   Preliminary consultation. Prior to the design, preparation, and
construction of any roadway to be dedicated to the village, the applicant shall
notify the Village Engineer. An on-site meeting will then be arranged to be
attended by the Village Engineer and the applicant. Plans must be provided in
order for the Village Engineer to check the design and the drainage.
      (4)   Material slips. Copies of material slips for all materials
furnished for the road construction projects shall be delivered to the village
before the village approves the final construction.
      (5)   Required inspections.
         a.   Prior to the commencement of any street construction, the
subdivider shall notify the Village Engineer, at least one work day in advance,
as to the nature of the work being done. The Village Engineer shall be
contacted for required inspections after the following phases of construction.
            1.   Subbase grading.
            2.   Crushed aggregate base course.
            3.   Bituminous surface course.
            4.   Shouldering.
         b.   Any deficiencies found by the Village Engineer shall be corrected
before proceeding to the next phase of construction.
      (6)   Tests of materials. The village reserves the right to obtain a
sample of the roadway base material prior to placement on the roadway for
purposes of determining whether the material meets gradation and soundness
requirements.
      (7)   Pavement samples. Samples of bituminous concrete will be taken by
the village during pavement construction operations for purposes of determining
that the material meets specifications.
   (b)   Construction standards. All streets and highways constructed in the
village or to be dedicated to the village shall fully comply with the following
construction standards, and shall be adequate for the zoning classification or
projected use of the area served by the street.
      (1)   General. After completion of the underground utilities and approval
thereof, the streets shall be constructed. Unless excepted, building permits
shall not be issued prior to the installation of the street improvements and
the approval of an individual lot grading plan that conforms to the guidelines
of the Master Site Grading Plan, as determined by the Village Engineer, or his
or her designee.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way. Streets shall have a right-of-way width as
established on the official map or as designated in §
14-1-70(f), provided, however, that a greater or lesser roadway width may be
required by the Village Engineer where necessary to assure uniformity along the
entire length of any street.
      (3)   Temporary streets. Construction of temporary streets shall require
authorization of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Standard street improvements.
         a.   Standard street improvements shall include street lights,
concrete curb and gutter, bituminous base course, bituminous surface course,
and, when required, walkways.
         b.   The construction of standard street improvements can begin only
when either:
            1.   The underground utilities were installed in the previous
construction season; or
            2.   The construction of underground utilities included mechanical
compaction and compaction tests have been approved by the Village Engineer.
         c.   Upon obtaining the written approval of the Village Engineer, the
subdivider can proceed with the construction of the standard street
improvements. Standard street improvements shall be installed to the boundary
line of the subdivision unless the street culminates in a cul-de-sac, the
topography, or other physical conditions make it impossible to do so, or unless
this requirement is waived, in writing, by the Village Board.
      (5)   Roadway base standards.
         a.   The subdivider must bring all streets and alleys to a grade
established by the Village Board. All site work by village employees in
determining grade shall be billed at the village rate and paid by the owner.
         b.   Residential streets shall have a roadway base of six inches
compacted in place crushed aggregate base course of gradation No. 2 in the top
layer, and gradations No. 1 and No. 2 in the lower level.
         c.   On commercial, arterial, or other heavy-use streets, as
determined by the Village Engineer, a base course of eight inches compacted
shall be constructed upon an inspected and approved subgrade, either well-
graded crushed gravel from a state-approved pit with a maximum stone of one and
one-half inches, and no greater than 10% by weight passing a No. 200 sieve or
No. 3 crushed rock approximately six inches in depth, and one or more layers of
fine aggregate, either three-fourths inch crushed gravel, well-graded with no
greater than 10% passing a No. 200 sieve, or three-fourths inch traffic-bound
crushed rock.
         d.   In the case of commercial, arterial, or other heavy-use roads,
the Village Board may, in the alternative to the above standards, have the
Village Engineer provide specifications for such roads after researching the
site(s) and conducting a soil analysis pursuant to subsection (c) below.
         e.   In any case, the Village Board shall have the sole discretion in
determining the use and construction classification to be adhered to.
         f.   In all cases, the base course shall be compacted to the extent
necessary to produce a condition so that there will be no appreciable
displacement of material laterally and longitudinally under traffic, and shall
conform to line, grades, and shape shown on the approved plans, profiles, and
cross-sections.
         g.   The subdivider shall furnish drawings which indicate the proposed
grades of streets shown on the plat and, after approval of those grades by the
Village Engineer and adoption by the Village Board, the streets shall be graded
to full width of the right-of-way of the proposed street to the subgrade
elevations shown on the typical cross-section. The grading is to be completed
prior to installation of utilities. All stumps and trees which cannot be saved,
boulders and other similar items shall be removed by the subdivider.
      (6)   Roadway subgrade quality.
         a.   All subgrade material shall have a minimum California bearing
ratio (CBR) of three. Subgrade material having a CBR less than three shall be
removed and replaced with a suitable fill material, or the pavement must be
designed to compensate for the soil conditions. The soil support CBR values
selected for use by the designer should represent a minimum value for the soil
to be used.
         b.   Stable and nonorganic sub-base material is required. All topsoil
shall be first removed. In addition, all subsoils which have a high shrinks
well potential, low-bearing capacity when wet, or are highly elastic shall be
removed and used outside of the right-of-way. Where both subsoil and substratum
have a high shrink-swell potential and low-bearing capacity when wet, an under
drain system shall be installed to keep the water level five feet below the
pavement surface. Unstable and organic material must be subcut, removed, and
replaced with a suitable granular or breaker-run material approved by the
Village Engineer.
      (7)   Roadway grading: ditches. Roads shall be graded to their full width
in accordance with approved plans, plus an additional distance necessary to
establish a four-to-one backslope where ditches are allowed. The roadway shall
be compacted and graded to a subgrade using, where necessary, approved fill
material in accordance with the State Department of Transportation standards.
Roadside ditches, where allowed by the village, shall be a minimum of 26 inches
below the finished roadway centerline elevation, or as approved by the Village
Engineer. Debris may not be buried in the designated road right-of-way. Roadway
ditches shall have a normal slope ratio of three-to-one ditch from the edge of
the shoulder to the bottom of the ditch and two-to-one on the back slope.
      (8)   Pavement thickness.
         a.   Residential and rural-type roads shall have a minimum of two and
one-half inches thick compacted hot-mix bituminous concrete pavement, placed in
two layers: a binder course of one and one-half inches thick and a surface
course of one inch.
         b.   On commercial, arterial, or other heavy-use roads, there shall be
a minimum of three and one-half inches of bituminous concrete pavement, placed
in two layers: a binder course of two inches thick and a surface course of one
and one-half inches thick.
         c.   In the case of commercial, arterial, or other heavy-use roads,
the Village Board may, in the alternative to the above standards, have the
Village Engineer provide specifications for paving such roads with a greater
thickness after researching the site(s) and conducting a soil analysis. In any
case, the Village Board shall have the sole discretion in determining the use
and construction classification to be adhered to. In no event shall paving
occur later than 18 months from the village’s approval of the final or official
plat. All subsequent shouldering where ditches are allowed shall be brought to
even grade with bituminous mat.
      (9)   Shoulder width.
         a.   A shoulder a minimum of four feet wide on each side of the road
is required where curb and gutter is not used, and wider when required by the
“Town Road Standards” as noted in Wis. Stats. § 86.31.
         b.   Where ditches are allowed, road shoulders shall have a minimum
thickness of two and one-half inches of compacted in-place crushed state-
approved aggregate base course, over a minimum six inches of compacted in-place
crushed state-approved aggregate base course, except that shoulder thickness
shall match the thickness of the pavement, provided that there is a minimum
shoulder thickness of six inches.
      (10)   Roadway culverts and bridges. Roadway culverts and bridges shall
be constructed as directed by the Village Engineer and sized utilizing the
methods listed in Chapter 13, entitled “Drainage,” of the “Facilities
Development Manual” of the State Department of Transportation. All roadway
culverts shall be provided with concrete or metal apron endwalls. The developer
shall provide adequate facilities to provide surface water drainage as well as
free flow outlets for subsurface drain tile where they are required. Where
drainage facilities will aid in road construction and the stabilization of the
road’s subgrade, drainage facilities shall be installed before road
construction is started. Existing condition status shall be based on a maximum
of a curve 70.
      (11)   Driveways.
         a.   Curbs shall not be interrupted by openings for driveways or other
accessways to private property unless the number and location of such
interruptions have been approved by the Village Board.
         b.   When allowed, curb openings for driveways within the public
service area shall be no less than 14 feet nor more than 20 feet in width
unless the opening is intended to afford access to a commercially zoned parcel.
The width of any driveway opening intended to afford access to commercial
property shall be as determined and prescribed by the Village Engineer.
         c.   Driveway culverts shall be sized by the Village Engineer (if
appropriate). The culverts shall be placed in the ditch line at elevations that
will assure proper drainage, and they shall be provided with concrete, metal or
landscape timber endwalls. Driveway culverts shall be installed as prescribed
in
Title 6, Chapter 3 of this code of ordinances.
      (12)   Topsoil, grass, seed, fertilizer, and mulch. All disturbed areas
(ditches, backslopes) within the road right-of-way not provided with pavement
and shouldering material shall be restored utilizing four inches of topsoil and
good quality grass seed, fertilizer and mulch. Ditches along the roadway shall
be protected by erosion control materials such as hay bales, sod, erosion
control mats, and the like.
      (13)   Drainage improvements. In the case of all new roads and streets,
the Village Engineer may require that stormwater retention areas and storm
sewers be constructed in order to provide for proper drainage.
      (14)   Continuity and transitions.
         a.   All street pavement widths on streets continued from previously
developed or platted streets shall, wherever practical, provide for the greater
of either the existing or required pavement type, width, grade, and cross
slope.
         b.   Where it is necessary to provide for a transition of pavement
width and/or type between new and existing streets, the transition shall occur
in a safe manner at an intersection. In the event a transition in pavement
width cannot safety occur at an intersection, it shall not occur closer than
250 feet to the intersection of right-of-way lines. In width transitions, the
ratio of the transition length to width shall not be less than 15-to-one unless
the Village Engineer determines that special circumstances prevent use of such
ratio, in which case the minimum transition ratio shall be ten-to-one.
      (15)   Curb and gutter. Combination concrete curb and gutter is required
on all streets. Refer to §
14-1-54 describing requirements for curbs and gutters.
      (16)   Post-construction traffic limited. No vehicular traffic shall be
permitted on the pavement for a minimum period of between 24 and 72 hours
following paving, as determined necessary by the Village Engineer, to protect
the new pavement.
   (c)   Selection of alternative design. The Village Engineer shall select a
pavement structure to be used after reviewing equivalent alternative pavement
designs with the subdivider. The Village Engineer shall require one or more of
the pavement designs of the subdivider based on the following criteria:
      (1)   Life cycle cost;
      (2)   History of similar pavements in the area;
      (3)   Adjacent existing pavements;
      (4)   Staging of construction;
      (5)   Construction season;
      (6)   Friction requirements;
      (7)   Depressed, surface, or elevated design;
      (8)   Higher governmental preference (for example, if a state highway);
      (9)   Stimulation of competition;
      (10)   Conservation of materials;
      (11)   Construction considerations;
      (12)   Recognition of local industry; and
      (13)   Availability of materials and methods locally.
   (d)   Final inspection.
      (1)   Upon completion of the proposed highway, the Village Engineer will
proceed to make a final inspection, accepting or rejecting the street as the
case may be. After all of the provisions of this chapter have been complied
with, the roadway or easement will be inspected by village officials and, at
that time, proof will be made by the presenting of waivers of liens or
receipted bills that all work that has been done has been paid for, or
arrangements have been made for the payment through written instrument by the
subdivider.
      (2)   If the street is rejected, corrections shall be made as required by
the Village Board, upon the Village Engineer’s recommendation, before final
inspection can then be made again. If final acceptance is then made, the owner
or owners shall turn over to the village the deed of all land necessary for the
street as previously mentioned.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-71)
§ 14-1-72 BLOCK DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (a)   Length; arrangement. The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall
be appropriate for the topography and the type of development contemplated, but
block length (measured in the long dimension from street centerline to street
centerline) shall not be less than 500 feet nor exceed 1,200 feet, nor have
less than sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of appropriate
depth between street lines. Blocks shall be so designated as to provide two
tiers of lots, unless it adjoins a railroad, major thoroughfare, river, or park
where it may have a single tier of lots. Cul-de-sacs may be used where the
interblock spacing of adjacent streets exceeds the appropriate depth of two
tiers of lots.
   (b)   Pedestrian pathways. Pedestrian pathway easements, not less than ten
feet wide, may be required by the Village Board, upon the recommendation of the
Plan Commission, through the center of a block more than 900 feet long, where
deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities.
   (c)   Street tree planting strip easements. Tree planting strip easements
shall be provided for on both sides of all streets when the street terrace is
insufficient. The minimum easement width shall be ten feet and shall be
adjacent to the front property line. Street trees shall be maintained by the
adjacent property owner in accordance with village ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-72)
§ 14-1-73 LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (a)   Lot dimension. Lot dimension shall conform to the requirements of the
zoning code, but in no case shall have a frontage of less than 80 feet at the
front yard building line, or a depth of less than 100 feet. The requirements of
the zoning regulations insofar as they may specify greater areas or distance
shall be complied with.
   (b)   Commercial or industrial lots. Depth and width of properties reserved
or laid out for commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide
for the off-street service and parking facilities required by the type of use
and development contemplated, as required by the village zoning code.
   (c)   Minimum lot frontage. All lots shall have a minimum of 45 feet of
platted frontage on a public street to allow access by emergency and service
motor vehicles unless part of a planned unit development approved by the
Village Board. Alley frontage (public or private) shall not constitute meeting
this minimum frontage requirement.
   (d)   Lots where abutting arterial highway. Residential lots adjacent to
major and minor arterial streets and highways and/or railroads shall be platted
with an extra 15 feet of lot and an extra 15 feet of minimum yard setback and
shall otherwise be designed to alleviate the adverse effects on residential
adjacent lots platted to the major street, highway, railroad, or other such
features.
   (e)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to
permit full building setback from both streets, or as required by applicable
zoning regulations.
   (f)   Access to public street. Every lot shall front or abut on a public
street. Every lot shall front or abut on a public street for a distance of at
least 50 feet and shall be not less than 80 feet in width at the front building
line, including cul-de-sac lots, or as required by the village zoning code, the
more restrictive of which shall apply.
   (g)   Side lots. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to or
radial to abutting street lines. Lot lines shall follow village boundary lines.
   (h)   Double and reversed frontage lots. Double frontage and reversed
frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   (i)   Natural features. In the dividing of any land regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or
similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability
to the proposed development.
   (j)   Land remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
dividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, or a plan shown as
to future use rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (k)   Large lots. In case a tract is divided and results in parcels of more
than twice the minimum lot size provided for by the village zoning code for the
zoning district in which the land is located, such parcels shall be so arranged
to permit redividing into parcels in accordance with this chapter and with the
zoning code.
   (l)   Trunk highway proximity. All lots adjacent to state trunk and federal
highways shall be platted with additional depth necessary to provide for a
building setback line not less than 50 feet from the nearer right-of-way line
or 110 feet from the centerline, whichever is more restrictive. The subdivider
may appeal this requirement to the Village Engineer. Upon written request of
the Village Engineer, the State Department of Transportation is hereby
authorized to then determine building setback requirements equal to or less
than those required above in all land divisions (including certified surveys)
adjacent to state and federal highways in accordance with the authority granted
in the Administrative Code. The required building setback line and additional
lot depth shall be platted so as to accommodate such required building
setbacks.
   (m)   Easement allowance. Lots containing pedestrian or drainage easements
shall be platted to include additional width in allowance for the easement.
   (n)   Drainage way and watercourses. Lots abutting upon water course,
drainage way, channel, or stream shall have such additional depth or width as
required by the Village Engineer to obtain building sites that are not subject
to flooding from a post development 100-year storm.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-73)
§ 14-1-74 DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (a)   Purpose. The following provisions in this section are established to
preserve and provide properly located public sites and facilities for drainage
and stormwater management as the community develops, and to ensure that the
costs of providing and developing such public sites are equitably apportioned
on the basis of serving the need for the management of increased stormwater
quantities resulting from land development.
   (b)   Drainage system required.
      (1)   As required by §
14-1-58, a drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider
to provide for the proper drainage of the surface water of the land division
and the drainage area of which it is a part. A final plat shall not be approved
until the subdivider shall submit plans, profiles, and specifications as
specified in this section, which have been prepared by a registered
professional engineer and approved or modified by the Village Board, upon the
recommendations of the Plan Commission and Village Engineer.
      (2)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the
general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as
to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall not recommend for approval any
subdivision plat which does not provide adequate means for stormwater or
floodwater runoff. Any stormwater drainage system will be separate and
independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where necessary, shall
be designed in accordance with all governmental regulations, and a copy of
design computations for engineering capacities shall accompany plans submitted
by the planning engineer for the final plat. When calculations indicate that
curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further allowance shall be made for
flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to intercept flow at that
point.
   (c)   Drainage system plans.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit to the village at the time of filing a
preliminary plat a preliminary drainage plan or engineering report on the
ability of existing watercourse channels, storm sewers, culverts and other
improvements pertaining to drainage or flood control within the subdivision to
handle the additional runoff which would be generated by the development of the
land within the subdivision. Additional information shall be submitted to
adequately indicate that provision has been made for disposal of surface water
without any damage to the developed or undeveloped land downstream or below the
proposed subdivision. The report shall also include:
         a.   Estimates of the quantity of stormwater entering the subdivision
naturally from areas outside the subdivision;
         b.   Quantities of flow at each inlet or culvert; and
         c.   Location, sizes, and grades of required culverts, storm drainage
sewers, and other required appurtenances.
      (2)   A grading plan for the streets, blocks, and lots shall be submitted
by the subdivider for the area within the subdivision.
      (3)   The design criteria for storm drainage systems shall be based upon
information provided by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Material and construction specifications for all drainage projects
(for example, pipe, culverts, seed, sod, and the like) shall be in compliance
with specifications provided by the Village Engineer.
   (d)   Drainage system requirements. The subdivider shall install all the
storm drainage facilities indicated on the plans required in subsection (a) of
this section necessary to serve, and resulting from, the phase of the land
division under development:
      (1)   Street drainage. All streets shall be provided with an adequate
storm drainage system. The street storm system shall serve as the minor
drainage system and shall be designed to carry street, adjacent land, and
building stormwater drainage. Stormwater shall not be permitted to be run into
the sanitary sewer system within the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Off-street drainage. The design of the off-street major drainage
system shall include the entire watershed affecting the land division and shall
be extended to a watercourse or ditch adequate to receive the storm drainage.
When the drainage system is outside of the street right-of-way, the subdivider
shall make provisions for dedicating an easement pursuant to subsection (e)
below to provide for the future maintenance of said system.
   (e)   Protection of drainage systems. The subdivider shall adequately
protect all ditches to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer. Ditches and
open channels shall be seeded, sodded, or paved depending upon grades and soil
types. (Generally ditches or channels with grades up to 1% shall be seeded;
those with grades up to 4% shall be sodded and those with grades over 4% shall
be paved.)
   (f)   Drainage easements. Where a land division is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream:
      (1)   There shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage right-of-
way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse and such further
width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose and as may
be necessary to comply with this section;
      (2)   The watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream may be relocated
in such a manner that the maintenance of adequate drainage will be assured and
the same provided with a stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way
conforming to the lines of the relocated watercourse, and such further width or
construction, or both, as will be adequate for the purpose and may be necessary
to comply with this section; or
      (3)   Wherever possible, drainage shall be maintained in an easement by
an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential
volume flow. In all cases, such easements shall be of a minimum width
established at the high water mark or, in the absence of such specification,
not less than 30 feet.
   (g)   Dedication of drainageways. Whenever a parcel is to be subdivided or
consolidated and embraces any part of a drainageway identified on a Village
Comprehensive Stormwater Management Plan, Master Plan, and/or official map or
any portion thereof, such part of said existing or proposed public drainageway
shall be platted and dedicated by the subdivider as an easement or right-of-way
in the location and at the size indicated along with all other streets and
public ways in the land division. Whenever any parcel is to be subdivided or
consolidated and is part of a drainage district established under the authority
of Wis. Stats. Chapter 88, the subdivider shall petition the Circuit Court to
transfer the jurisdiction of that portion of the drainage district being
subdivided or consolidated to the village in accordance with Wis. Stats.
Chapter 88.83.
   (h)   Dedication/preservation of stormwater management facilities. The
subdivider shall dedicate sufficient land area for the storage of stormwater to
meet the needs to be created by the proposed land development and in accordance
with the standards for on-site detention and as determined by the Village
Engineer. Whenever a proposed stormwater management facility (for example,
detention or retention basin) shown on the Comprehensive Stormwater Management
Plan, Master Plan, and/or official map is located, in whole or in part, within
the proposed land division, ground areas for providing the required storage
capacity in such proposed public facility shall be dedicated to the public to
the requirements of the Master Plan and/or official map. Storage areas
necessary to serve areas outside the land division shall be held in reserve for
a period of five years from the date of final plat approval for future
acquisition by the village or other appropriate agency having the authority to
purchase said property. The subdivider and village shall enter into an
agreement with the village to provide for the purchase of the lands held in
reserve prior to the conclusion of the five-year reserve period.
   (i)   Storm drainage facilities.
      (1)   The subdivider, at his or her cost, shall install all drainage
facilities identified in the Erosion Control Plan or determined by the Village
Engineer as being necessary for the management of all lands and roadways within
the development. In addition, drainage capacity through the development from
other areas shall be provided in accordance with a comprehensive surface water
management study, if applicable. All required storm drainage facilities shall
be constructed and operational prior to acceptance of any dedications and/or
public improvements served by the storm drainage facilities.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit to the Village Engineer for his or her
review and approval a report on the ability of existing watercourse channels,
storm sewers, culverts, and other improvements pertaining to drainage or flood
control within the land division to handle the additional runoff which would be
generated by the development of the land within the land division. Additional
information shall be submitted to adequately indicate that provision has been
made for disposal of surface water without any damage to the developed or
undeveloped land downstream or below the proposed land division, The report
shall also include:
         a.   Estimates of the quantity of stormwater entering the land
division naturally from areas outside the land division;
         b.   Quantities of flow at each inlet or culvert; and
         c.   Location, sizes, and grades of required culverts, storm drainage
sewers, and other required appurtenances.
      (3)   A grading plan for the streets, blocks, and lots shall be submitted
by the subdivider for the area within the land division.
      (4)   The design criteria for storm drainage systems shall be reviewed by
the Village Engineer and approved or modified.
      (5)   Material and construction specifications for all drainage projects
(for example, pipe, culverts, seed, code, and the like) shall be in compliance
with standards and specifications provided by village ordinance and/or the
Village Engineer.
   (j)   Minor drainage system. The subdivider shall install all minor drainage
system components necessary to reduce inconvenience and damages from frequent
storms. Minor drainage components shall include all inlets, piping, gutters,
channels, ditching, pumping and other facilities designed to accommodate the
post-development runoff resulting from a two-year, 24-hour rainfall (ten-year,
24-hour rainfall for commercial zoning district) event as determined in the
most current edition of the Soils Conservation Service Technical Release 55 (TR
55). Temporary accumulations of storm runoff from ponding or flowing water, in
or near minor system components, shall be permitted providing such
accumulations do not encroach on any traffic lane of any collector or arterial
street, nor on the center 24 feet of any local street, except on cul-de-sac or
permanently dead-end streets serving less than ten dwelling units, where such
accumulations may not overtop the curb. In drainageways and drainageway
easements, accumulations of water shall not inundate beyond the limits of the
drainageway or drainageway easement. Cross street drainage channels (valley
gutters) shall not be permitted except on cul-de-sac or permanent dead-end
streets serving less than ten dwelling units and where the minimum grade in the
valley gutter and street gutter between the valley gutter and the next
downstream drainage inlet is not less than 1%.
   (k)   Major drainage system. The subdivider shall install all major drainage
system components necessary to reduce inconvenience and damages from infrequent
storms. Major system components shall include large channels and drainageways,
streets, easements, and other paths and shall be capable of accommodating post-
development runoff in excess of that accommodated by minor system components
resulting from 24-hour rainfall events for storms with return frequencies
greater than two years up to and including the 100-year return event (as
identified in TR 55). On local and collector streets and drainageways and
drainage easements, accumulations of water shall not inundate any buildings at
the ground line, unless such buildings are flood-proofed. On arterial streets
and in commercial zoning districts, accumulations of water shall not inundate
any buildings at the ground line, unless such buildings are flood-proofed and
the depth of water at the street crown shall not exceed six inches to permit
operation of emergency vehicles.
   (l)   Drainage piping systems.
      (1)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Engineer, all drainage
piping of 12 inches diameter and greater in street rights-of-way shall be
constructed of Class 3 reinforced concrete pipe. Piping materials outside of
rights-of-way shall be subject to approval of the Village Engineer. Open
drainage inlet pipes or culverts with any opening dimension in excess of 18
inches shall be equipped with debris grates having an exposed area at least
seven times the pipe opening area to avoid backwater accumulations from trash
buildup and unsafe stream velocities and a maximum opening size of six inches.
Drainage piping outfalls with any opening dimension in excess of 36 inches
shall be protected from unauthorized entry by fencing, partial or total
submergence of the outlet, debris grates, or other methods approved by the
Village Engineer unless in such a location as to render routine maintenance
operations impossible. Outfalls and their channels shall be protected from
damages due to scour and erosion to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   When, on the basis of the soils information, the Village Engineer
determines that the groundwater elevation is less than nine feet below the
proposed street centerline elevation and the adjacent lots have access to a
storm drainage piping system, the subdivider shall be required to provide
approved sump pump laterals from the storm sewer piping system to the property
line of each lot for connection to by the property owner.
      (3)   Agricultural drain tiles which are disturbed during construction
shall be restored, reconnected, or connected to public storm drainage
facilities.
   (m)   Open channel systems.
      (1)   Where open channels are utilized in either the minor or major
drainage system, they shall be designed so as to minimize maintenance
requirements and maximize safety. Drainage easements (in lieu of dedications)
shall be utilized to accommodate open channels provided adequate access by the
village for maintenance of drainage capacity. Side slopes shall not exceed a
four-to-one slope. Drainageways with grades of 0.75% or less, or where subject
to high groundwater, continuous flows, or other conditions as determined by the
Village Engineer that would hamper maintenance operations due to consistently
wet conditions, shall have a paved concrete invert of not less than eight feet
wide and side slopes to a point one foot above the channel invert.
      (2)   In areas where invert paving is not required, the drainageway
bottom shall be grass. If the drainageway has a bare soil bottom or the natural
grasses in the drainageway are disturbed due to development operations, the
drainageway bottom shall be sodded and securely staked to one foot above the
elevation of inundation resulting from a predevelopment five year, 24-hour
storm event. Other disturbed areas shall be seeded and prepared in accordance
with the village’s erosion control requirements. Velocities for grass-lined
channels shall not exceed those presented in the village’s surface water
management study, if one is adopted.
   (n)   Standards for on-site detention storage. The subdivider may employ on-
site detention to control erosion and sedimentation, reduce the post-
development peak runoff rate, or temporarily store stormwater runoff due to
inadequate downstream drainage facilities. The detention (storage) facilities
shall be subject to regulation in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Where on-site detention is temporarily employed for erosion and
sedimentation control, the detention facilities shall safety contain the
predevelopment runoff from a 25-year storm event of 24-hour duration within the
limits of the facility.
      (2)   Where on-site detention is permanently employed to reduce the post-
development peak runoff, the detention facility shall safety contain the post-
development runoff from a 25-year storm event of 24-hour duration within the
limits of the facility.
      (3)   Detention facility peak discharge rates for the maximum storm
required to be contained shall not exceed the predevelopment peak discharge
rate from a five year storm event of 24-hour duration or the capacity of the
downstream drainage facilities, whichever is less.
      (4)   All temporary detention facilities shall safety contain or pass the
runoff from any storm of any duration which exceeds the maximum storm required
to be contained up to the 100-year storm event of 24-hour duration.
      (5)   All permanent detention facilities shall safety contain the runoff
from the 100-year storm event of 24-hour duration on both public and, if
necessary, private properties without inundating any building at the ground
elevation, the travel lanes of any arterial street, the center ten feet of any
collector street, or the top of the curb on any local street.
      (6)   Determination of on-site detention volumes shall be computed by
procedures established by the United States Soil Conservation Service in the
most current edition of its technical publication entitled “Urban Hydrology for
Small Watersheds, TR-55,” and as accepted and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (7)   The storage of stormwater runoff shall not encroach on any public
park (except parks designed with detention facilities) or any private lands
outside the land division unless an easement providing for such storage has
been approved and recorded for said lands.
      (8)   All detention facilities shall be designed with the safety of the
general public and any considerations for ease of maintenance as top
proprieties.
      (9)   Any wet detention facilities shall include riprap to not less than
two feet above the normal pool elevation for protection from wave action.
      (10)   The sides of all detention facilities shall have a maximum slope
ratio of four-to-one (horizontal to vertical), with flatter slopes being
required where determined practical by the Village Engineer.
      (11)   The Village Board, upon recommendation by the Village Engineer,
may require the installation of fencing or other such security measures in
detention facilities with excessively long down times or permanent water
features, or other features requiring additional security for safety reasons.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-74)
§ 14-1-75 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (a)   General.
      (1)   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provisions as the village may require.
      (2)   A non-residential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the Village Building Code. A
non-residential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of this
chapter, as well as such additional standards required by the village, and
shall conform to the proposed land use standards established by any village
comprehensive plan or official map, and the village zoning code.
   (b)   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in this
chapter, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Village Board that the
street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Village Board, upon the
recommendation of the Village Engineer, with respect to street, curb, gutter,
and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Village Board, upon the
recommendation of the Village Engineer, with respect to the installation of
public utilities, including water, sewer, and stormwater drainage.
      (5)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for permanently landscaped
buffer strips when necessary.
      (6)   Streets carrying non-residential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-75)
§ 14-1-76 GRADING.
   The subdivider shall grade each land division in order to establish street,
block, and lot grades in proper relation to each other and to topography as
follows.
   (a)   Master site-grading plan.
      (1)   A Master Site-Grading plan shall be prepared by the subdivider for
all new subdivisions. This Plan shall be prepared in accordance with the
requirements and standards of the village.
      (2)   The Master Site-Grading Plan shall show existing and proposed
elevations of all lot corners, control points, and building locations. The Plan
shall also indicate all overland storm drainage in and adjacent to the
subdivision. The cost of the preparation of such a plan shall be paid for by
the subdivider.
      (3)   After approval or modification of these plans by the Village
Engineer, the full width of the right-of-way of the proposed streets within the
subdivision and the entire subdivision lot area shall be graded in accordance
with the Master Site-Grade Plan. The owners of the subdivision lots shall
adhere to those plans.
      (4)   Upon completion of all street and subdivision grading, the grades
shall be checked and certified by the Village Engineer to determine that the
completed grading work is in accordance with the Master Site-Grading Plan.
      (5)   The cost of all required grading work, supervision, certification,
inspection, and engineering fees shall be paid for by the subdivider.
   (b)   Right-of-way grading. The subdivider shall grade the full width of the
right-of-way of all proposed streets in accordance with the approved plans,
including the grading of site triangles at each intersection.
   (c)   Block grading. Block grading shall be completed by one or more of the
following methods.
      (1)   Regrading along the side or rear lot lines which provides for
drainage to the public drainage facilities.
      (2)   Parts of all lots may be graded to provide for drainage to a ditch
or to a swale, provided any ditches or swales are in public drainage easements.
      (3)   Draining across rear or side lot lines may be permitted provided
that the course of drainage is within a public drainage easement and is toward
public drainage facilities.
   (d)   Miscellaneous grading requirements.
      (1)   Lot grading shall be completed so that water drains away from each
building site toward public drainage facilities at a minimum grade of 2% and
provisions shall be made to prevent drainage onto properties adjacent to the
land division unless to a public drainage facility.
      (2)   Grading activities shall not result in slopes greater than three-
to-one on public lands or lands subject to public access.
      (3)   a.   The topsoil stripped for grading shall not be removed from the
site unless identified in the Erosion Control Plan approved by the Village
Engineer as not being necessary for erosion control or site landscaping
purposes. Topsoil shall be uniformly returned to the lots when rough grading is
finished.
         b.   Topsoil piles shall be leveled and seeded for erosion control
prior to the village releasing the one-year guarantee provision on public
improvements in the streets adjacent to the lots on which the topsoil is
stockpiled.
      (4)   Such grading shall not result in detriment to any existing
developed lands, either within or outside of the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-76)
§ 14-1-77 EROSION CONTROL.
   (a)   Purpose. The village finds that urbanizing land uses have accelerated
the process of soil erosion, runoff, and sediment deposition in the waters of
the village. Therefore, it is declared to be the purpose of this section to
control and prevent soil erosion and minimize stormwater runoff increases and
thereby to preserve the natural resources, control floods, and prevent
impairment of dams and reservoirs, protect the quality of public waters,
protect wildlife, protect the tax base, and protect and promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the people of the village.
   (b)   Land-disturbing activities subject to erosion and sediment control.
      (1)   General requirement. Any owner, occupant, or user who undertakes,
commences, or performs any land division activities; or who permits another
person to do the same on land under his or her control shall be subject to this
section.
      (2)   Control plan required.
         a.   Every land division involving construction of public improvements
shall include a plan to control erosion, sedimentation, and runoff which would
result from the proposed activity with the design of the public improvements
submitted to the Village Engineer for review.
         b.   Land divisions not involving construction of public improvements
are exempted from the requirement of the submission of a control plan if: the
proposed land division involves one acre or less of land, and the applicant
agrees to install all the control devices and to implement all necessary
control techniques.
      (3)   Contents of the control plan. The control plan required above shall
contain such information needed to determine soil erosion, sedimentation, and
runoff control:
         a.   A map of the site location showing the location of the
predominant soil types;
         b.   A topographic map of the site location, including the contiguous
properties, existing drainage patterns, and watercourses affected by the
proposed development of the site and the existing vegetative cover; and
         c.   A plan of the site showing:
            1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the occupant and party
responsible for maintaining erosion control;
            2.   Limits of natural floodplain(s), based on a 100-year flood, if
any;
            3.   A timing schedule indicating the anticipated starting and
completion dates of the development sequence; and
            4.   Proposed topography of the site location with a maximum of two
foot contour intervals showing:
               i.   Location of activity, disturbance of protective cover, any
additional structure on the site, areas to be seeded or mulched, areas to be
vegetively stabilized, and areas to be left undisturbed;
               ii.   Elevations, dimensions, and location of all activities,
including where topsoil will be temporarily stockpiled;
               iii.   The finished grade, stated in feet horizontal to feet
vertical of cut and fill slopes;
               iv.   Kinds of utilities and areas of installation, including
special erosion control practices for utility installation;
               v.   Paved and covered areas in square feet or to scale on a
plan map;
               vi.   Makeup of surface soil (upper six inches) on areas not
covered by buildings, structures, or pavement; and
               vii.   Kind of cover on areas not covered by buildings,
structures, or pavement.
         d.   Plans and hydraulic computations for all structural or
nonstructural measures or other protective devices to be constructed in
connection with the proposed work showing:
            1.   Estimated rate of discharge in cubic feet per second to all
structural or nonstructural measures, and the point of discharge from the site
location based upon ten-year frequency storm event;
            2.   The storm event frequency discharge rate in cubic feet per
second upon which the design of plans for the site location is based; and
            3.   Provisions to carry runoff to the nearest adequate public
drainage facilities.
               i.   Design computations and applicable assumptions for all
structural measures for erosion and sediment pollution control and water
management. Volume and velocity of flow must be given for all surface water
conveyance measures and pipe outfalls.
               ii.   Provisions for perpetual maintenance of control facilities
including easements.
               iii.   Seeding mixtures and rates, lime and fertilizer
application rates, and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures.
         e.   Methods to prevent tracking of soil off the site of the activity.
   (c)   Review of control plan. The Village Engineer shall review all control
plans, and shall determine if measures are adequate to meet all the applicable
standards as set out in this article. The applicant will be informed in writing
whether the control plan is approved, disapproved, requires modification, or if
additional information is required. In the event that the plan is not approved,
the applicant shall resubmit a new control plan.
   (d)   Conditions. All approvals under this section shall be issued subject
to the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   All land disturbances will be done pursuant to the approved control
plan and the requirements of this section and
Title 13, Chapter 2.
      (2)   The subdivider shall give two working days’ notice in advance of
the start of any activity.
      (3)   The subdivider shall file a notice within ten days after completion
of land disturbing activities.
      (4)   Approval in writing shall be obtained prior to any modifications to
the approved control plan.
      (5)   The subdivider shall be responsible for maintaining all proposed
public roads, road rights-of-way, streets, runoff, and drainage facilities, and
drainageways as specified in the approved plan until they are accepted and
become the responsibility of the village.
      (6)   The subdivider shall be responsible at his or her own expense for
repairing any damage to all adjoining surfaces and drainageways caused by
runoff and/or sedimentation resulting from the permittee’s activities.
      (7)   The subdivider shall provide and install at his or her expense all
drainage, runoff control, and erosion control improvements as required by this
article and the approved control plan, and shall provide for the perpetual
maintenance of all private control facilities or through dedication to, and
acceptance by, the village.
      (8)   No portion of the land which is disturbed will be allowed to remain
uncovered for greater than two weeks after the work activity is completed if
the Village Engineer determines there exists a potential for erosion to leave
the site of the work or the boundaries of the land division.
      (9)   The subdivider agrees to permit the Village Engineer, or his or her
designee, to enter onto the land regulated under this section for the purpose
of inspecting for compliance with the approved control plan.
      (10)   The subdivider authorizes the village to cause or perform any work
or operations necessary to bring the condition of the lands into conformity
with the approved control plan and further consents to the village collecting
the total of the costs and expenses of such work and operating as a special
charge against the property for current services rendered as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-77)
§§ 14-1-78 THROUGH 14-1-79 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE H: PARK AND PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION
§ 14-1-80 GENERAL PARK AND PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Dedication requirement. In order that adequate open spaces and sites
for public uses may be properly located and reserved and in order that the cost
of providing public areas, such as, but not limited to, parks, recreation
areas, and public schools may be equitably apportioned on the basis of
additional need created by the subdivision development, each subdivider shall
be required to dedicate land or fees in lieu of land for park or other public
uses.
   (b)   General design. In the design of a subdivision, land division, planned
unit development or development project, provision shall be made for suitable
sites of adequate area for schools, parks, playgrounds, open spaces, drainage-
ways, and other public purposes. Such sites are to be shown on the preliminary
plat and final plat, and shall comply with the Village Master Plan or component
of said plan. Consideration shall be given to the preservation of scenic and
historic sites, stands of trees, marshes, lakes, ponds, streams, watercourses,
watersheds, ravines and woodlands, prairie and wetlands, and plant and animal
communities.
   (c)   Site reservations required.
      (1)   Where the area proposed to be divided contains a park, playground,
or other public area which is shown upon the Master Plan of the village, such
area shall either be dedicated to the proper public agency, or it shall be
reserved for acquisition thereby within a three-year period by purchase or
other means. If the land is not acquired during this period, it shall be
released to the subdivider.
      (2)   Whenever any river, stream or important surface-drainage course is
located in the area being divided, the subdivider of land shall provide an
easement along each side of the river, stream or drainage course for the
purpose of widening, deepening, relocating, improving or protecting the river,
stream or drainage course for drainage or recreational use.
      (3)   Whenever a tract of land to be subdivided embraces all or any part
of an arterial street or other public way which has been designated in the
comprehensive plan component or on the official map of the village, such public
way shall be made a part of the plat and dedicated or reserved by the
subdivider in the locations and dimensions indicated on such plan.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-80)
§ 14-1-81 LAND DEDICATION.
   (a)   Dedication of sites. Where feasible and compatible with the
Comprehensive or Master Plan of the village, the developer shall provide and
dedicate to the public adequate land to provide for park, recreation, school,
and open space needs of the land development within the village. The location
of such land to be dedicated shall be determined by the Village Board. Where
the dedication is not compatible with the Comprehensive or Master Plan, or for
other reasons is not feasible as determined by the Village Board the developer
shall, in lieu thereof, pay to the village a fee as established by this
article, or a combination thereof.
   (b)   Dedication of parks, playgrounds, recreation, and open spaces. The
developer shall dedicate sufficient land area to provide adequate park,
playground, recreation, and open space to meet the needs to be created by and
to be provided for the land division, subdivision, or comprehensive
development, The minimum dedication shall be:
      (1)   Five percent of the total acreage intended to be used for
commercial or industrial uses;
      (2)   Ten percent of the total acreage intended to be used for single-
family and two-family dwelling units; and
      (3)   Fifteen percent of the total acreage intended to be used for multi-
family dwellings.
   (c)   Combination of residential uses. Where a combination of residential
uses is intended, the minimum dedication shall be the sum obtained by adding
10% of the acreage intended for single-family and two-family dwellings, and 15%
of the acreage intended for multi-family dwellings. Where a definite commitment
is made to the village by the developer with respect to those portions of the
total acreage intended for single-family, duplex, and multi-family dwellings,
the dedication shall be based upon the maximum dedications which the zoning
classification of the parcel will permit.
   (d)   Minimum size of park and playground dedications.
      (1)   In general, land reserved for recreation purposes shall have an
area of at least two acres. Where the amount of land to be dedicated is less
than two acres, the Village Board may require that the recreation area be
located at a suitable place on the edge of the proposed land division,
subdivision, or comprehensive development so that additional land may be added
at such time that the adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area of
less than one acre be reserved for recreational purposes if it will be
impractical or impossible to secure additional lands in order to increase its
area.
      (2)   Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a character and
location suitable for use as a playground, playfield, or for other recreation
purposes, and shall be relatively level and dry. A recreation site shall have a
total frontage on one or more streets of at least 200 feet, and no other
dimension of the site shall be less than 200 feet.
   (e)   Fees in lieu of land.
      (1)   Where, in the sole discretion of the Village Board, there is no
land suitable for parks within the proposed land division, subdivision, or
comprehensive development, the dedication of land required by subsection (b)
above is not feasible, the dedication of land would not be compatible with the
Village Master Plan or park plan, the minimum size under subsection (c) above
cannot be met, or the Village Board determines that a cash contribution will
better serve the public interest, the Village Board shall require the developer
to pay a fee in lieu of making the required land dedication.
      (2)   The amount of any fee imposed pursuant to subsection (e)(1) above
shall be determined as follows: the number of acres which would be required to
be dedicated in accordance with subsection (b) above shall be multiplied by 30%
of the equalized value of an acre of land within the plat during the assessment
period following the installation of public improvements. The equalized value
of an acre of land within the plat shall be determined by the Village Assessor.
Eighty percent of the estimated park fee, as determined by the Village Assessor
and Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall be payable before construction commences on the utilities and streets.
The developer shall pay the balance of the park fee when it is finally
determined by the village.
      (3)   The Village Board may, in its sole discretion, permit the
subdivider to satisfy the requirements of subsection (e)(2) above by combining
a land dedication with a fee payment. The fee, in such cases, shall be
determined by subtracting the most recent equalized value of the dedicated
land, as determined by the Village Assessor, from the total fee which would
have been imposed had no land been dedicated by the subdivider.
      (4)   The village shall place any fee collected pursuant to the
provisions of this section in a separate account to be used at the discretion
of the Village Board in any community park, for developing adequate parks,
playgrounds, recreation, and open spaces.
   (f)   Extraterritorial areas. Where the land division, subdivision, or
comprehensive development is situated within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the village, and the town operates and maintains a park system, the park
land area dedicated to the town or fees paid to the town in lieu of such
dedication shall be credited against any dedication required by or fee imposed
pursuant to this section.
   (g)   Limitations. A subdivider shall not be required to dedicate more than
one-third of the total area of the plat to meet the objectives of this section.
   (h)   Suitability of lands. The Village Board shall have sole authority to
determine the suitability and adequacy of park lands proposed for dedication.
Drainageways, wetlands, or areas reserved for streets shall not be considered
as satisfying land dedication requirements.
   (i)   Deeded to the village. Land dedicated for public purposes shall be
deeded to the village at the time the final plat is approved.
   (j)   Access to dedicated land. All dedicated land shall have frontage on a
public street and shall have unrestricted public access.
   (k)   Utility extensions. The subdivider shall install or provide for
installation of water and sanitary sewer lines to the property line of all
dedicated land where such services are to be provided to the adjacent
properties.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-81)
§ 14-1-82 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.
   When public parks and sites for other public areas as shown on the Master
Plan or Master Plan component lie within the proposed area for development and
are greater in area than required by §
14-1-81, the owner shall reserve for acquisition by the village, through
agreement, purchase, or condemnation, the remaining greater public area for a
period of one year of final plat approval unless extended by mutual agreement.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-82)
§ 14-1-83 DEVELOPMENT OF PARK AREA.
   (a)   When parklands are dedicated to the village, the subdivider is
required to:
      (1)   Properly grade and contour for proper drainage;
      (2)   Provide surface contour suitable for anticipated use of area as
approved by the Village Engineer; and
      (3)   Cover areas to be seeded with a minimum of four inches of quality
topsoil, seed as specified by the Village Engineer, fertilized at a rate of
seven pounds per 1,000 square feet, and mulched, as specified in the standard
“Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction Section 627 and 629.” The
topsoil furnished for the park site shall consist of the natural loam, sandy
loam, silt loam, silty clay loam, or clay loam humus-bearing soils adapted to
the sustenance of plant life, and such topsoil shall be neither excessively
acid nor excessively alkaline. Fine grading and seeding must occur within one
year following issuance of the first building permit within that land division
unless otherwise authorized by the village. The improved area shall not be
deemed officially accepted until a uniform grass cover to a two-inch height has
been established. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to maintain
the area until the village accepts the dedication.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the village to maintain the
dedicated areas upon their dedication and acceptance by the village. The owner
of said land shall be responsible for its maintenance and liability thereon
except that said owner shall not develop the surrounding area in a manner which
would unduly depreciate the purpose, use, or value of the dedicated property.
   (c)   A neighborhood park area shall be provided by the subdivider with a
standard residential water service unless located directly adjacent to a fire
hydrant. A community park area shall be provided by the developer with a
minimum six-inch water service or at least one fire hydrant, and at least one
four-inch sanitary sewer lateral, all located at the street property line.
   (d)   The Village Board may require certification of compliance by village
officials. The cost of such report shall be paid by the subdivider.
   (e)   If the subdivider fails to satisfy the requirements of this section,
the Village Board may contract said completion and bill such costs to the
subdivider, following a public hearing and written notice to the subdivider of
noncompliance. Failure to pay such costs may result in the immediate
withholding of all building permits until such costs are paid.
   (f)   The subdivider shall pay all costs of public improvements in the
public streets adjacent to or within all public and/or park lands.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-83)
§§ 14-1-84 THROUGH 14-1-89 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE I: FEES
§ 14-1-90 ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER FEES.
   (a)   General. The subdivider shall pay the village all fees as hereinafter
required and at the times specified before being entitled to recording of a
plat or certified survey map.
   (b)   Engineering fee. The subdivider shall pay a fee equal to the actual
cost to the village for all engineering work incurred by the village in
connection with the plat or certified survey map, including inspections
required by the village pursuant to § 14-1-52(d). The subdivider shall pay a
fee equal to the actual cost to the village for such engineering work and
inspection as the Village Board and/or Village Engineer deems necessary to
assure that the construction of the required improvements is in compliance with
the plans, specifications, and ordinances of the village or any other
governmental authority. Engineering work shall include the preparation of
construction plans, standard specifications, and administration of the
engineering work.
   (c)   Administrative fee. The subdivider shall pay a fee to the village
equal to the cost of any legal, administrative, or fiscal work which may be
undertaken by the village in connection with the plat or certified survey map.
   (d)   Concept plan. There shall be no fee for the village’s review of a
concept or sketch plan of a proposed land division. However, such reviews shall
be conducted only as staff time permits.
   (e)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   A subdivider who submits a preliminary plat for the Village Plan
Commission and the Village Board shall file said preliminary plat with the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, and
shall deposit with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, a fee to cover the costs of reviewing said
application. The fee for a preliminary plat shall be $25 for up to and
including six lots, plus $5 per each additional lot over six. If the plat is
rejected, no part of the fee shall be returned to the petitioner.
      (2)   A reapplication fee of $25 shall be paid to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, at the time
of reapplication for approval or amendment of any preliminary plat which has
previously been reviewed.
   (f)   Final plat review fee.
      (1)   The subdivider shall pay a fee of $25 plus $2 for each dwelling
unit within the final plat to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, at the time of first application for final
plat approval of said plat to assist in defraying the cost of review.
      (2)   A reapplication fee of $10 shall be paid to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, at the time
of a reapplication for approval or amendment of any final plat which has
previously been reviewed.
   (g)   Certified survey.
      (1)   The subdivider shall pay an application fee of $20 for each
certified survey.
      (2)   Should the subdivider submit an amended or revised certified
survey, the resubmittal fee shall be $20 for each amended or revised certified
survey.
   (h)   Objecting agency review fees.
      (1)   The subdivider shall transmit all fees required for state agency
review to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, at the time of application.
      (2)   Said review fees shall be retransmitted to the proper state review
agency by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate.
      (3)   Said fees shall be applicable, where appropriate, to review fees
required by the State Department of Development, State Department of
Transportation, State Department of Industry, Labor and Human Relations, and
the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (i)   Public site fee. If the subdivision does not contain lands to be
dedicated as required in this chapter, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, shall require a fee pursuant to §
14-1-83 for the acquisition and development of public sites to serve the future
inhabitants of the proposed subdivision.
   (j)   Assessments. All outstanding assessments due to the village shall be
due prior to the signing of the final plat or certified survey by the village.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-90)
§§ 14-1-91 THROUGH 14-1-99 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE J: VARIANCES; PENALTIES AND VIOLATIONS
§ 14-1-100 VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Where the subdivider alleges that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, he or she may request variations or exceptions to the regulations
so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured,
provided that such variation or exception shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter. Application for any such
variance shall be made in writing by the subdivider to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, at the time
when the preliminary plat or certified survey is filed for consideration,
stating fully all facts relied upon by the petitioner, and shall be
supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional data which may aid village
officials in the analysis of the proposed project. The plans for such
development shall include such covenants, restrictions, or other legal
provisions necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the plan. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, may request
that the Village Engineer, Village Attorney, or other officials review each
situation to ensure that the request is consistent with the requirements and
standards of this chapter. The Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall refer the matter to the Plan Commission with a
written report and recommendation from village staff. The previous granting of
variances or exceptions in the same or similar circumstances shall not of
itself constitute grounds for the granting of a variance or exception, nor
shall strictly financial rationale.
   (b)   The Village Board shall not grant variations or exceptions to the
regulations of this chapter unless it shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   Failure to grant the variation may be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
financial hardship, or self-imposed hardship, if the strict letter of the
regulations were carried out; and
      (4)   There would be no costs (present or future) to the village
resulting from the granting of the variance or exception.
   (c)   Any recommendations for variances or exceptions by the Plan Commission
must be approved by a three-fourths majority vote of the Plan Commission and
shall be so endorsed by the Secretary and transmitted to the Village Board. The
Village Board, if it approves, shall do so by resolution adopted by three-
fourths vote and shall instruct the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate, to notify the Plan Commission and the
subdivider.
   (d)   Variances from the strict application of this chapter may also be
granted in accordance with this chapter in the case of planned unit
developments provided the Village Board, upon review and recommendations from
the Plan Commission, shall find that the proposed development is fully
consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter, village zoning
ordinances, and any Village Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-100)
§ 14-1-101 ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES, AND REMEDIES.
   (a)   Violations. It shall be unlawful to build upon, divide, convey,
record, or monument any land in violation of this chapter or the state
statutes, and no person snail be issued a building permit by the village
authorizing the building on, or improvement of, any subdivision, land division,
or replat with the jurisdiction of this chapter not of record as of the
effective date of this chapter until the provisions and requirements of this
chapter have been fully met. The village may institute appropriate action or
proceedings to enjoin violations of this chapter or the applicable state
statutes.
   (b)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit no less than
$50 nor more than $500 and the costs of prosecution for each violation. Each
day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Recordation improperly made has penalties provided in Wis. Stats. §
236.30.
      (3)   Conveyance of lots in unrecorded plats has penalties provided for
in Wis. Stats. § 236.31.
      (4)   Monuments disturbed or not placed have penalties as provided for in
Wis. Stats. § 236.32.
      (5)   Assessor’s plat made under Wis. Stats. § 70.27 may be ordered by
the village at the expense of the subdivider when a subdivision is created by
successive divisions.
   (c)   Revocation of permits and/or approvals.
      (1)   The Village Engineer, Director of Public Works, or Building
Inspector may revoke or suspend any permit or approval issued under the
regulations of this chapter, and may stop construction or use of approved
materials, equipment, methods of construction, devices, or appliances for any
of the following reasons.
         a.   Whenever the Village Engineer shall find at any time that
applicable ordinances, laws, orders, plans, and specifications are not being
complied with, and that the subdivider, or his or her contractor, has refused
to conform after written warning or instruction has been issued to him or her.
         b.   Whenever the continuance of any construction becomes dangerous to
life or property.
         c.   Whenever there is any violation of any condition or provisions of
the application for permit, or of the permit or of any approval.
         d.   Whenever, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, Director of
Public Works, or Building Inspector, the subdivider has provided inadequate
management of the project.
         e.   Whenever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made
in the application for permit, plans, drawings, data specifications, or
certified lot or plot plan on which the issuance of the permit or approval was
based.
         f.   Whenever there is a violation of any of the conditions of an
approval or occupancy given by the Village Engineer, Director of Public Works,
or Building Inspector for the use of all materials, equipment, methods of
construction, devices, or appliances.
      (2)   The notice revoking a permit or approval shall be in writing and
may be served upon the applicant of the permit, owner of the premises, and his
or her agent, if any, and/or on the person having charge of construction.
      (3)   A revocation placard shall also be posted upon the premises in
question by the Village Engineer, Director of Public Works, or Building
Inspector.
      (4)   After the notice is served upon the persons as aforesaid and
posted, it shall be unlawful for any person to proceed thereafter with any
construction operation whatsoever on the premises, and the permit which has
been so revoked shall be null and void, and before any construction or
operation is again resumed, a new permit, as required by this chapter, shall be
procured and fees paid therefor, and thereafter the resumption of any
construction or operation shall be in compliance with the regulation of this
chapter. However, such work as the Village Engineer, Director of Public Works,
or Building Inspector may order as a condition precedent to the reissuance of
the building permit may be performed, or such work as he or she may require for
the preservation of life and safety.
      (5)   Any appeals of such revocations or suspensions must be made in
writing and within seven calendar days to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or
highest elected official, as appropriate, for consideration by the Village
Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided the appeal is filed not
less than seven days prior to the meeting date.
      (6)   The Building Inspector is hereby directed to withhold the issuance
of building permits within the land division until compliance with the
provisions of this chapter is obtained.
      (7)   The Building Inspector is hereby directed to withhold the issuance
of occupancy permits within the land division if violations of this chapter may
result in health or safety problems for the occupants.
   (d)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by an objection to a plat or a failure
to approve a plat may appeal therefrom, as provided in Wis. Stats. §§ 236.13(5)
and 62.23(7)(e)10, 14, and 15, within 30 days of notification of the rejection
of the plat. Where failure to approve is based on an unsatisfied objection, the
agency making the objection shall be made a party to the action. The court
shall direct that the plat be approved if it finds that the action of the
approving or objecting agency is arbitrary, unreasonable, or discriminatory.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-101)
§ 14-1-102 DISCLAIMERS ON APPROVALS.
   (a)   The purpose of requiring approvals under this chapter is to ensure the
health, safety, morale, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare of the
village. This article shall not be interpreted as placing any responsibility or
liability on any village official, village employee, or the village as a
municipal corporation for the granting of approval, or the denial of any
approval. All approvals rendered as part of this chapter shall be considered as
being approved conditionally based on the information and circumstances
apparent at that time.
   (b)   Approvals issued by the village shall not be construed as an
assumption or expression of any responsibility, warranty, or guarantee, for the
design or construction of any improvements within the land division.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-102)
§ 14-1-103 RESTRICTIONS FOR PUBLIC BENEFITS.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stats. § 236.293, any restriction placed on platted lands
by covenant, grant of easement, land division, or consolidation approval, which
was required by the village and which names a public body or public utility as
grantee, promisee, or beneficiary, vests in the public body or utility the
right to enforce the restriction by law or in equity against anyone who has
interest in the land subject to the restriction. The restriction may be
released or waived by resolution of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-103)
TITLE 15: BUILDING CODE
Chapter
   
1.   BUILDING CODE
   
2.   GRIEVANCES REGARDING ACCESS TO PUBLIC BUILDING BY HANDICAPPED PERSONS
   
3.   FAIR HOUSING
   
4.   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   
5.   RENTAL HOUSING CODE
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
15-1-1   Building code established
   
15-1-2   Building permits and inspection
   
15-1-3   State Uniform Dwelling Code adopted
   
15-1-4   Commercial building code
   
15-1-5   New methods and materials
   
15-1-6   Unsafe buildings
   
15-1-7   Disclaimer on inspections
   
15-1-8   Garages
   
15-1-9   Regulation and permit for razing buildings
   
15-1-10   Basements; excavations
   
15-1-11   Discharge of clear waters
   
15-1-12   Duplex service connections
   
15-1-13   Regulations for moving buildings
   
15-1-14   Fees
   
15-1-15   Severability
   
15-1-16   Penalties and violations
§ 15-1-1 BUILDING CODE ESTABLISHED.
   (a)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the “Building Code of the
Village of Turtle Lake” and will be referred to in this chapter as “this code,”
“this chapter,” or “this ordinance.”
   (b)   Purpose. This chapter provides certain minimum standards, provisions,
and requirements for safe and stable design, methods of construction, and uses
of materials in buildings and/or structures hereafter erected, constructed,
enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, converted to other uses, or demolished, and
regulates the equipment, maintenance, use, and occupancy of all such buildings
and/or structures. Its purpose is to protect and foster the health, safety, and
well-being of persons occupying or using such buildings and the general public.
   (c)   Scope. New buildings hereafter erected in, or any building hereafter
moved within or into the village, shall conform to all the requirements of this
chapter, except as they are herein specifically exempted from part or all of
its provisions. Any alteration, enlargement, or demolition of an existing
building and any installation therein of electrical, gas, heating, plumbing, or
ventilating equipment which affects the health or safety of the users thereof
or any other persons is a “new building” to the extent of such change. Any
existing building shall be considered a “new building” for the purposes of this
chapter whenever it is used for dwelling, commercial, or industrial purposes,
unless it was being used for such purpose at the time this chapter was enacted.
The provisions of this chapter supplement the laws of the state pertaining to
construction and use and the zoning code of the village and amendments thereto
to the date this chapter was adopted, and in no way supersede or nullify such
laws and the said zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 15-1-2 BUILDING PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (a)   Permit required.
      (1)   General permit requirement. No building of any kind shall be moved
within or into the village and no new building or structure, or any part
thereof, shall hereafter be erected, or ground broken for the same, or
enlarged, altered, moved, demolished, razed, or used within the village, except
as herein provided, until a permit therefor shall first have been obtained by
the owner, or his or her authorized agent, from the Building Inspector, or his
or her designee.
      (2)   Alterations and repairs. The following provisions shall apply to
buildings altered or repaired.
         a.   Alterations. When not in conflict with any regulations,
alterations to any existing building or structure accommodating a legal
occupancy and use, but of substandard type of construction, which involves
either beams, girders, columns, bearing or other walls, room, heating and air
condition systems, arrangement, light and ventilation, changes in location of
exit stairways or exits, or any or all of the above, then such existing
construction shall be made to conform to the minimum requirements of this
chapter applicable to such occupancy and use and given type of construction.
         b.   Repairs. Repairs for purposes of maintenance, or replacements in
any existing building or structure which do not involve the structural portions
of the building or structure, or which do not affect room arrangement, light
and ventilation, access to or efficiency of any existing stairways or exits,
fire protection, or exterior aesthetic appearance, and which do not increase a
given occupancy or use, shall be deemed minor repairs.
         c.   Alterations when not permitted. When any existing building or
structure, which, for any reason whatsoever, does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter, has deteriorated from any cause whatsoever to an
extent greater than 50% of the equalized value of the building or structure, no
alterations or moving of such building or structure shall be permitted. Any
such building or structure shall be considered a menace to public safety and
welfare, and shall be ordered vacated and thereafter demolished, and debris
removed from the premises.
         d.   Alterations and repairs required. When any of the structural
members of any building or structure have deteriorated from any cause
whatsoever to less than their required strength, the owner of such a building
or structure shall cause such structural members to be restored to their
required strength; failing in which the building or structure shall be
considered a menace to public safety and shall be vacated and thereafter no
further occupancy or use of the same shall be permitted until the regulations
of this chapter are complied with.
         e.   Extent of deterioration. The amount and extent of deterioration
of any existing building or structure shall be determined by the Building
Inspector.
   (b)   Application. Application for a building permit shall be made in
writing upon a form furnished by the Building Inspector, or his or her
designee, and shall state the name and address of the owner of the land and
also the owner of the building if different, the legal description of the land
upon which the building is to be located, the name and address of the designer,
the use to which said building is to be put, and such other information as the
Building Inspector may require.
   (c)   Site plan approval.
      (1)   Site plan approval. All applications for building permits for any
construction, reconstruction, expansion, or conversion, except for one- and
two-family residences in residential zoned districts shall require site plan
approval by the Village Board in accordance with the requirements of this
section. The applicant shall submit a site plan and sufficient plans and
specifications of proposed buildings, machinery, and operations to enable the
Village Board, or its expert consultants, to determine whether the proposed
application meets all the requirements applicable thereto in this chapter.
      (2)   Administration. The Building Inspector shall make a preliminary
review of the application and plans, and refer them along with a report of his
or her findings to the Village Board. The Village Board shall review the
application and may refer the application and plans to one or more expert
consultants selected by the Village Board to advise whether the application and
plans meet all the requirements applicable thereto in this chapter. Within 30
days of its receipt of the application, the Village Board shall authorize the
Building Inspector to issue or refuse a building permit.
      (3)   Requirements. In acting on any site plan, the Village Board shall
consider the following.
         a.   The appropriateness of the site plan and buildings in relation to
the physical character of the site and the usage of adjoining land areas.
         b.   The layout of the site with regard to entrances and exits to
public streets; the arrangement and improvement of interior roadways; the
location, adequacy, and improvement of areas for parking and for loading and
unloading; and shall, in this connection, satisfy itself that the traffic
pattern generated by the proposed construction or use shall be developed in a
manner consistent with the safety of residents and the community, and the
applicant shall so design the construction or use as to minimize any traffic
hazard created thereby.
         c.   The adequacy of the proposed water supply, drainage facilities,
and sanitary and waste disposal.
         d.   The landscaping and appearance of the completed site. The Village
Board may require that those portions of all front, rear, and side yards not
used for off-street parking shall be attractively planted with trees, shrubs,
plants, or grass lawns, and that the site be effectively screened so as not to
impair the value of adjacent properties nor impair the intent of purposes of
this section.
      (4)   Effect on municipal services. Before granting any site approval,
the Village Board may, besides obtaining advice from consultants, secure such
advice as may be deemed necessary from the Building Inspector or other
municipal officials, with special attention to the effect of such approval upon
existing municipal services and utilities. Should additional facilities be
needed, the Village Board shall not issue the final approval until the village
has entered into an agreement with the applicant regarding the development of
such facilities.
      (5)   Appeals. Denials of building permits continent upon site plan
approval may be appealed to the Board of Appeals by filing a notice of appeal
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, within ten days of the denial.
   (d)   Dedicated street and approved subdivision required. No building permit
shall be issued unless the property on which the building is proposed to be
built abuts a street that has been dedicated for street purposes. No building
permits shall be issued until the subdivision and required improvements are
accepted by the Village Board.
   (e)   Utilities required.
      (1)   Residential buildings. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any residential building until sewer, water, grading, and
graveling are installed in the streets necessary to service the property for
which the permit is required and a receipt for payment of electrical hookup is
presented to the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Non-residential building. No building permit shall be issued for
the construction of any building other than residential until contracts have
been let for the installation of sewer, water, grading, and graveling in the
streets necessary to service the property for which the permit is requested.
      (3)   Occupancy. No person shall occupy any building until sewer, water,
grading, and graveling are installed in the streets necessary to service the
property and a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until such
utilities are available to service the property.
   (f)   Plans. With such application, there shall be submitted two complete
sets of plans and specifications, including a plot plan showing the location
and dimensions of all buildings and improvements on the lot, both existing and
proposed, dimensions of the lot, dimensions showing all setbacks of all
buildings on the lot, proposed grade of proposed structure (to village datum),
grade of lot and of the street abutting lot, grade, and setback of adjacent
buildings (if the adjacent lot is vacant, submit elevation of nearest buildings
on same side of the street), type of monuments at each corner of lot,
watercourses, or existing drainage ditches, easements, or other restrictions
affecting such property, seal and signature of surveyor, or a certificate
signed by the applicant and a construction erosion control plan setting forth
proposed information and procedures needed for control of soil erosion, surface
water runoff, and sediment disposition at the building site. Plans,
specifications, and plot plans shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one-quarter
inch to one foot (fireplace details to three-quarters inch to one foot). One
set of plans shall be returned after approval as provided in this chapter. The
second set shall be filed in the office of the Building Inspector. Plans for
buildings involving the State Building Code shall bear the stamp of approval of
the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human Relations. One plan shall be
submitted which shall remain on file in the office of the Building Inspector.
All plans and specifications shall be signed by the designer. Plans for all new
one- and two-family dwellings shall comply with the provisions of Wis. Admin.
Code, Chapters SPS 320 through 325.
   (g)   Waiver of plans; minor repairs.
      (1)   Waiver. If the Building Inspector finds that the character of the
work is sufficiently described in the application, he or she may waive the
filing of plans for alterations, repairs, or moving, provided the cost of such
work does not exceed $2,000.
      (2)   Minor repairs. The Building Inspector may authorize minor repairs
or maintenance work on any structure or to heating, ventilating, or air
conditioning systems installed therein valued at less than $500, as determined
by the Building Inspector, which do not change the occupancy area, exterior
aesthetic appearance, structural strength, fire protection, exits, light, or
ventilation of the building or structure without issuance of a building permit.
   (h)   Approval of plans.
      (1)   If the Building Inspector determines that the building will comply
in every respect with all ordinances and orders of the village and all
applicable laws and orders of the state, he or she shall issue a building
permit which shall state the use to which said building is to be put, which
shall be kept and displayed at the site of the proposed building. After being
approved, the plans and specifications shall not be altered in any respect
which involves any of the above-mentioned ordinances, laws, or orders, or which
involves the safety of the building or the occupants, except with the written
consent of the Building Inspector.
      (2)   In case adequate plans are presented for part of the building only,
the Building Inspector, at his or her discretion, may issue a permit for that
part of the building before receiving the plans and specifications for the
entire building.
   (i)   Permit lapses. A building permit shall lapse and be void unless
building operations are commenced within six months or if construction has not
been completed within one year from the date of issuance thereof.
   (j)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Building Inspector or the Village Board may revoke any
building, plumbing, or electrical permit, certificate of occupancy, or approval
issued under the regulations of this chapter and may stop construction or use
of approved new materials, equipment, methods of construction, devices, or
appliances for any of the following reasons.
         a.   Whenever the Building Inspector shall find at any time that
applicable ordinances, laws, orders, plans, and specifications are not being
complied with and that the holder of the permit refused to conform after
written warning or construction has been issued to him or her.
         b.   Whenever the continuance of any construction becomes dangerous to
life or property.
         c.   Whenever there is any violation of any condition or provisions of
the application for permit or of the permit.
         d.   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, there is
inadequate supervision provided on the job site.
         e.   Whenever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made
in the application for permit, plans, drawings, data specifications, or
certified lot or plot plan on which the issuance of the permit or approval was
based.
         f.   Whenever there is a violation of any of the conditions of an
approval or occupancy given by the Building Inspector for the use of all new
materials, equipment, methods, or construction devices or appliances.
      (2)   The notice revoking a building, plumbing or electrical certificate
of occupancy or approval shall be in writing and may be served upon the
applicant of the permit, owner of the premises, and his or her agent, if any,
and on the person having charge of construction.
      (3)   A revocation placard shall also be posted upon the building,
structure, equipment, or premises in question by the Building Inspector.
      (4)   After the notice is served upon the persons as aforesaid and
posted, it shall be unlawful for any person to proceed thereafter with any
construction operation whatsoever on the premises, and the permit which has
been so revoked shall be null and void, and before any construction or
operation is again resumed, a new permit, as required by this chapter, shall be
procured and fees paid therefor, and thereafter the resumption of any
construction or operation shall be in compliance with the regulation of this
chapter. However, such work as the Building Inspector may order as a condition
precedent to the reissuance of the building permit may be performed, or such
work as he or she may require for the preservation of life and safety.
   (k)   Report of violations. Village officers shall report at once to the
Building Inspector any building which is being carried on without a permit as
required by this chapter.
   (l)   Display of permit. Building permits shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place on the premises where the authorized building or work is in
progress at all times during construction or work thereon.
   (m)   Commercial, industrial development. All applicants for a building
permit in an industrial or commercially zoned area shall appear before the
Planning Commission of the village for review and recommendation to the Village
Board.
   (n)   Projects not requiring an inspection. Fees for building permits on
projects that do not require an inspection shall be as follows: A $10 minimum,
plus $1 per $1,000 of increased evaluation.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-2) (Res. 2001-4, passed 2-19-2001; Res. 2001-10, passed 5-
21-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Additional building construction fees, see §
15-1-14
§ 15-1-3 STATE UNIFORM DWELLING CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   State code adopted. The Administrative Code provisions describing and
defining regulations with respect to one- and two-family dwellings in Wis.
Admin. Code, Chapters SPS 320 through 325, are hereby adopted and by reference
made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Any act required to
be performed or prohibited by an Administrative Code provision incorporated
herein by reference is required or prohibited by this chapter. Any future
amendments, revisions, or modifications of the Administrative Code provisions
incorporated herein are intended to be made part of this chapter to secure
uniform statewide regulation of one- and two-family dwellings in this village.
A copy of these Administrative Code provisions and any future amendments shall
be kept on file in the Village Administrator’s, Clerk’s, or highest elected
official’s office, as appropriate. Should any other existing provision of the
code of ordinances of the village conflict with the State Uniform Dwelling
Code, the State Uniform Dwelling Code shall apply.
   (b)   Existing buildings. The “State Uniform Dwelling Code” shall also apply
to buildings and conditions where:
      (1)   An existing building to be occupied as a one- or two-family
dwelling, which building was not previously so occupied;
      (2)   An existing structure that is altered or repaired, when the cost of
such alteration or repair during the life of the structure exceeds 50% of the
equalized value of the structure, said value to be determined by the Village
Assessor;
      (3)   Additions and alterations, regardless of cost, made to an existing
building when deemed necessary in the opinion of the Building Inspector shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter for new buildings. The provisions
of §
15-1-2 shall also apply;
      (4)   Whenever more than 25% of the roof covering of a building is
replaced in any 12-month period, all roof covering shall be in conformity with
applicable sections of this chapter; and
      (5)   Any addition or alteration, regardless of cost, made to a building
shall be made in conformity with applicable sections of this chapter.
   (c)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ADDITION. New construction performed on a dwelling which increases the
outside dimensions of the dwelling.
      ALTERATION. A substantial change or modification other than an addition
or minor repair to a dwelling or to systems involved within a dwelling.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Commerce (formerly the Department of
Industry, Labor, and Human Relations).
      DWELLING.
         a.   Any building, the initial construction of which is commenced on
or after the effective date of this chapter which contains one- or two-dwelling
units; or
         b.   An existing structure, or that part of an existing structure,
which is used or intended to be used as a one- or two-family dwelling.
      MINOR REPAIR. Repair performed for maintenance or replacement purposes on
any existing one- or two-family dwelling which does not affect room
arrangement, light, and ventilation, access to or efficiency of any existing
stairways or exits, fire protection, or exterior aesthetic appearance, and
which does not increase a given occupancy and use. No building permit is
required for work to be performed which is deemed MINOR REPAIR.
      ONE- OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building structure which contains one or
separate households intended to be used as a home, residence, or sleeping place
by an individual or by two or more individuals maintaining a common household
to the exclusion of all others.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, or corporation.
      UNIFORM DWELLING CODE. The Administrative Code Provisions and any future
amendments, revisions, or modifications thereto, contained in the following
chapters of the Administrative Code:
 
Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 320 Administrative and Enforcement
Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 321 Construction Standards
Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 322 Energy Conservation Standards
Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 323 Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning
Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 324 Electrical Standards
Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 325 Plumbing and Potable Water Standards
 
   (d)   Method of enforcement.
      (1)   Certified inspector not provided. The village, as a municipality
under 2,500 in population, shall not contract with or provide a building
inspector certified by the Department of Industry, Labor, and Human Relations
in each category specified under Wis. Admin. Code, SPS 320.10, and by the
Department or Health and Social Services in the category of plumbing for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of the one- and two-family Uniform Dwelling
Code adopted in this chapter. However, private individuals may, at their own
expense, contract with a certified building inspectorfor inspection services.
      (2)   Inspection powers. An authorized inspection official of the village
may at all reasonable hours enter upon any public or private premises for
inspection purposes, and may require the production of the permit for any
building, plumbing, electrical, or heating work. No person shall interfere with
or refuse to permit access to any such premises to such inspector while in
performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-3)
§ 15-1-4 COMMERCIAL BUILDING CODE.
   (a)   Authority. These regulations are adopted under the authority granted
by Wis. Stats. § 101.12.
   (b)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the general health,
safety, and welfare of the public by enforcing such codes.
   (c)   Adoption of commercial building codes. The following Administrative
Codes, their referenced codes and standards, and subsequent revisions are
adopted for municipal enforcement by the designated Village Building Inspector,
who shall be commercially certified by the State Division of Safety and
Buildings.
 
Chapters Commercial 61-65 Wisconsin Building and Heating, Ventilation, and Air
                          Conditioning Code
Chapter Commercial 70     Historic Building Code
Chapters Commercial 75-79 Existing Buildings Code
 
   (d)   Building Inspector. The Village Building Inspector authorized by the
Village Board to enforce the adopted codes shall be properly certified by the
State Division of Safety and Buildings.
   (e)   Building permit required.
      (1)   No person or business shall build or cause to be built any new
public building containing less than 5,000 square feet in total area, or alter
a public building involving less than 10,000 square feet in altered area,
without first submitting plans and specifications to the Building Inspector and
obtaining a building permit for such building.
      (2)   All other larger public buildings are required to have their plans
and specifications to be submitted to the State Division of Safety and
Buildings for approval prior to municipal permit issuances.
      (3)   Notwithstanding Wis. Admin. Code Chapter SPS 361, a building permit
is also required for occupancies of less than 25,000 cubic feet.
   (f)   Local building permit. A local building permit shall also be required
for larger commercial buildings which will be state reviewed but locally
inspected.
   (g)   Building permit fee. Building permit fees shall be determined by
resolution of the Village Board.
   (h)   Penalties. Enforcement of this section shall be by means of
withholding building permits, imposition of forfeitures, and injunctive action.
Forfeitures shall be not less than $25, nor more than $1,000 for each day of
noncompliance.
(Ord. 05-03, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 15-1-5 NEW METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (a)   All materials, methods of construction, and devices designed for use
in buildings or structures covered by this section and not specifically
mentioned in or permitted by this section shall not be so used until approved
in writing by the Department of Commerce (formerly the Department of Industry,
Labor, and Human Relations) for use in buildings or structures covered by the
State Building Code, except sanitary appliances, which shall be approved in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code.
   (b)   Such materials, methods of construction, and devices, when approved,
must be installed or used in strict compliance with the manufacturer’s
specifications and any rules or conditions of use established by the Department
of Commerce (formerly the State Department of Industry, Labor, and Human
Relations). The data, test, and other evidence necessary to prove the merits of
such material, method of construction, or device shall be determined by the
Department of Commerce (formerly the State Department of Industry, Labor, and
Human Relations).
(Prior Code, § 15-1-5)
§ 15-1-6 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector or Village Board find any building or part
thereof within the village to be, in their judgment, so old, dilapidated, or
out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for
human occupancy or use, and so that it would be unreasonable to repair the
same, they shall order the owner to raze and remove such building or part
thereof or, if it can be made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and
sanitary, or to raze and remove at the owners option, such order and
proceedings shall be as provided in Wis. Stats. § 66.0413.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-6)
§ 15-1-7 DISCLAIMER ON INSPECTIONS.
   The purpose of the inspections under this chapter is to improve the quality
of housing in the village. The inspections and the reports and findings issued
after the inspections are not intended as, nor are they to be construed, as a
guarantee. In order to so advise owners and other interested persons, the
following disclaimer shall be applicable to all inspections under this chapter:
“These findings of inspection contained herein are intended to report
conditions of noncompliance with code standards that are readily apparent at
the time of inspection. The inspection does not involve a detailed examination
of the mechanical systems or the closed structural and nonstructural elements
of the building and premises. No warranty of the operation, use, or durability
of equipment and materials not specifically cited herein is expressed or
implied.”
(Prior Code, § 15-1-7)
§ 15-1-8 GARAGES.
   Private garages shall be built in accordance with the general construction
standards established in the State Uniform Dwelling Code.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-8)
§ 15-1-9 REGULATION AND PERMIT FOR RAZING BUILDINGS.
   (a)   Permit required. No building within the village shall be razed without
a permit from the Building Inspector. Razing permits shall lapse and be void
unless the work authorized thereby is commenced within six months from the date
thereof or completed within 30 days from the commencement of said work. Any
unfinished portion of work remaining beyond the required 30 days must have
special approval from the Building Inspector.
   (b)   Permit regulations. A snow fence or other approved barricade shall be
provided as soon as any portion of the building is removed, and shall remain in
place during razing operations. All debris must be hauled away at the end of
each day for the work that was done on that day. No combustible material shall
be used as backfill, but shall be hauled away. There shall not be any burning
of materials on the site of the razed building, except as provided in
subsection (c) below. If any razing or removal operation under this section
results in, or would likely result in, an excessive amount of dust particles in
the air creating a nuisance in the vicinity thereof, the permittee shall take
all necessary steps, by use of water spraying or other appropriate means, to
eliminate such nuisance. The permittee shall also take all necessary steps,
prior to the razing of a building, through the employment of a qualified person
in the field of pest control or by other appropriate means, to treat the
building as to prevent the spread and migration of rodents and insects
therefrom during and after the razing operations. After all razing operations
have been completed, the foundation shall be filled at least one foot above the
adjacent grade, the property raked clean, and all debris hauled away.
   (c)   Exceptions. A person may obtain a special permit from the Building
Inspector to raze a building by burning if all of the following have been
obtained.
      (1)   Written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources,
Air Management Program.
      (2)   Written approval of the Fire Chief with the condition that such
burning will be under the direct supervision of the Fire Chief, or his or her
designated appointee(s).
      (3)   Written approval from the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-9)
§ 15-1-10 BASEMENTS; EXCAVATIONS.
   (a)   Basement subflooring. First floor subflooring shall be completed
within 60 days after the basement is excavated.
   (b)   Fencing of excavations. The owner of any premises on which there
exists an opening or excavation which is located in close proximity to a public
sidewalk or street right-of-way as to constitute a hazard to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic shall erect a fence, wall, or railing at least four feet high
between such opening or excavation and the public right-of-way.
   (c)   Closing of abandoned excavations. 
      (1)   Any excavation for building purposes or any uncovered foundation
which shall remain open for more than three months shall be deemed abandoned
and a nuisance, and the Building Inspector shall order that, unless the
erection of the building or structure on the excavation or foundation shall
commence or continue forthwith, suitable safeguards shall be provided to
prevent accidental injury to children or other frequenters, or that the
excavation or foundation be filled to grade.
      (2)   Such order shall be served upon the owner of record or the owner’s
agent, where an agent is in charge of the premises, and upon the holder of an
encumbrance of record in the manner provided for service of a summons in the
Circuit Court. If the owner or the older of an encumbrance of record cannot be
found, the order may be served by posting it on the premises and make
publication in the official newspaper for two consecutive publications at least
ten days before the time for compliance stated in the order commences to run.
      (3)   Such time shall be not less than 14 nor more than 20 days after
service. If the owner of the land fails to comply with the order within the
time required, the Building Inspector shall cause the excavation or foundation
to be filled to grade.
      (4)   The cost of such abatement shall be charged against the real estate
and entered on the next succeeding tax roll as a special charge, and shall bear
interest at a rate established by the Village Board from the date of the report
by the Building Inspector on the cost thereof, pursuant to the provisions of
Wis. Stats. § 66.0703.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-10)
§ 15-1-11 DISCHARGE OF CLEAR WATERS.
   (a)   Discharge. No person shall cause, allow, or permit any roof drain,
surface drain, subsoil drain, drain from any mechanical device, gutter, ditch,
pipe, conduit, sump pump, or any other object or thing used for the purposes of
collecting, conducting, transporting, diverting, draining, or discharging clear
water from any part of any private premises owned or occupied by said person to
discharge into a sanitary sewer.
   (b)   Nuisance. The discharge into a sanitary sewer from any roof drain,
surface drain, subsoil drain, drain from any mechanical device, gutter, ditch,
pipe, conduit, sump pump, or any other object or thing used for the purposes of
collecting, conducting, transporting, diverting, draining, or discharging clear
water from any part of any private premises is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and a hazard to the health, safety, and well-being of the residents of
the village and to the protection of the property.
   (c)   Groundwater. Where deemed necessary by the Building Inspector, every
house shall have a sump pump installed for the purpose of discharging clear
waters from foundation drains and ground infiltration, and where the building
is not serviced by a storm sewer shall either discharge into an underground
conduit leading to a drainage ditch, gutter, dry well, or shall discharge onto
the ground surface in such other manner as will not constitute a nuisance as
defined herein.
   (d)   Stormwater. All roof drains, surface drains, drains from any
mechanical device, gutters, pipe, conduits, or any other objects or things used
for the purpose of collecting, conducting, transporting, diverting, draining,
or discharging stormwaters shall be discharged either to a storm sewer, a dry
well, an underground conduit leading to a drainage ditch, or onto the ground
surface in such other manner as will not constitute a nuisance as defined
herein.
   (e)   Storm sewer lateral. Where municipal storm sewers are provided and it
is deemed necessary by the property owner and/or the village to discharge clear
waters from a parcel of land, a storm sewer lateral shall be installed and
connected to the storm sewer main at the expense of the owner.
   (f)   Conducting tests. If the Building Inspector, or his or her designated
agent, suspects an illegal clear water discharge, as defined by this chapter or
by any other applicable provision of the Administrative Code as it may, from
time to time, be amended, he or she may, upon reasonable notice and at
reasonable times, enter the private premises where such illegal clear water
discharge is suspected and conduct appropriate tests to determine whether such
suspected illegal clear water discharge actually exists.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-11)
§ 15-1-12 DUPLEX SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   Each unit of a duplex shall have a separate water and sewer services.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-12)
§ 15-1-13 REGULATIONS FOR MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (a)   General requirements.
      (1)   No person shall move any building or structure upon any of the
public ways of the village without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
Building Inspector, and upon the payment of the required fee. Every such permit
issued by the Building Inspector for the moving of a building shall designate
the route to be taken, the conditions to be complied with, and shall limit the
time during which said moving operations shall be continued.
      (2)   A report shall be made by village employees with regard to possible
damage to trees. The estimated cost of trimming, removal, and replacement of
public trees, as determined by the village, shall be paid to the Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, prior to
issuance of the moving permit.
      (3)   Issuance of moving permit shall further be conditioned on approval
of the moving route by the Village Board.
   (b)   Continuous movement. The movement of buildings shall be a continuous
operation during all the hours of the day and at night, until such movement is
fully completed. All such operations shall be performed with the least possible
obstruction to thoroughfares. No building shall be allowed to remain overnight
upon any street crossing or intersection or so near thereto as to prevent easy
access to any fire hydrant or any other public facility. Lights shall be kept
in conspicuous places at each end of the building during the night.
   (c)   Street repair. Every person receiving a permit to move a building
shall, within one day after said building reaches its destination, report that
fact to the Building Inspector, inspect the streets, highways and curbs and
gutters over which said building has been moved and ascertain their condition.
If the removal of said building has caused any damage to any street or highway,
the person to whom the permit was issued shall forthwith place them in as good
repair as they were before the permit was granted. On the failure of the said
permittee to do so within ten days thereafter to the satisfaction of the
Village Board, the village shall repair the damage done to such streets and
hold the person obtaining such permit and the sureties on his or her bond
responsible for the payment of same.
   (d)   Conformance with code. No permit shall be issued to move a building
within or into the village, and to establish it upon a location within the said
village until the Building Inspector has made an investigation of such building
at the location from which it is to be moved and is satisfied from such
investigation that said building is in a sound and stable condition, and of
such construction that it will meet the requirements of this building code in
all respects. A complete plan of all further repairs, improvements, and
remodeling with reference to such building shall be submitted to the Building
Inspector, and he or she shall make a finding of fact to the effect that all
such repairs, improvements, and remodeling are in conformity with the
requirements of this building code and that, when the same are completed, the
building as such will so comply with said building code. In the event a
building is to be moved from the village to some point outside the boundaries
thereof, the provisions with respect to the furnishing of plans and
specifications for proposed alterations to such building may be disregarded.
      (1)   Before a permit is issued to move any building over any public way
in the village, the party applying therefor shall give a bond to the village in
a sum to be fixed by the Building Inspector and which shall not be less than
$1,000, said bond to be executed by a corporate surety or two personal sureties
to be approved by the Village Board, or designated agent, conditioned upon,
among other things, the indemnification to the village for any costs or
expenses incurred by it in connection with any claims for damages to any
persons or property, and the payment of any judgment together with the costs
and expenses incurred by the village in connection therewith arising out of the
removal of the building for which the permit is issued.
      (2)   Unless the Building Inspector, upon investigation, shall find it to
be a fact that the excavation exposed by the removal of such building from its
foundation shall not be so close to a public thoroughfare as to permit the
accidental falling therein of travelers or the location, nature and physical
characteristics of the premises, and the exposed excavation, such as to make
intrusion upon the premises and the falling into such excavation of children
under 12 years of age unlikely, the bond required by subsection (e)(1) above
shall be further conditioned upon the permittee erecting adequate barriers, and
within 48 hours, filling in such excavation or adopting and employing such
other means, devices, or methods approved by the Building Inspector and
reasonably adopted or calculated to prevent the occurrences set forth herein.
   (f)   Insurance. The Building Inspector shall require, in addition to said
the said bond above indicated, public liability insurance covering injury to
one person in the sum of not less than $100,000 and for one accident in a sum
not less than $200,000, together with property damage insurance in a sum not
less than $50,000, or such other coverage as deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-13)
§ 15-1-14 FEES.
   (a)   General. The fee for all building permits shall be as established by
resolution of the Village Board. If work commences prior to obtaining a
building permit, double fees will be charged.
   (b)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Building permit fees. The following fees apply to totally new
construction, including additions, decks, and the like. All fractions are
charged at the full incremental rate.
Total Valuation Fee*
Total Valuation        Fee*
Up to $2,000           $15 plus $1.67 per $100 over $500
$2,001 to $25,000      $40 plus $7.60 per $1,000 over $2,000
$25,001 to $50,000     $215 plus $4.20 per $1,000 over $25,000
$50,001 to $100,000    $320 plus $3.20 per $1,000 over $50,000
$100,001 to $500,000   $480 plus $2.42 per $1,000 over $100,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000 $1,450 plus $2.15 per $1,000 over $500,000
Over $1,000,000        $2,525 plus $1.38 per $1,000 over $1,000,000
Notes to Table:
* Subject to minimums in this column
 
      (2)   Projects other than new construction. The following fees applies to
projects other than new construction, such as remodeling.
         a.   Administrative fees. An administrative fee of 20% shall be added
to the building for each combination of building, HVAC, plumbing, or electrical
permit issued for the project. The fee shall not exceed $50.
         b.   Other inspection fees.
Type of Inspection Fee
Type of Inspection                             Fee
Additional plan review from changes, additions $32 per hour
Erosion control permit                         $25 per site
Inspections outside normal business hours      $32 per hour
Inspections with no specific category          $32 per hour
Plan review                                    15% of plan fee
Reinspections                                  $32 per hour
State building permit seal, when required      $25
 
         c.   Minimum fees. The value of construction for calculating permit
fees shall be calculated using the most recent building valuation data
(including regional modifiers, as published by the International Conference of
Building Officials in Building Standards magazine).
 
Structure Fee
Fences    $25
Signs     $25
 
         d.   Separate permit fees.
 
Type of Work to be Done                Fee
Electrical                             $0.30
   Circuit openings                 $3
   New circuits                     $30
   Service feeder panels
Heating, ventilating, air conditioning $500, plus 0.75% of value over $500
   Commercial over $50,000 value    1% of total work
   Commercial to $50,000 value      $30 per unit
   Residential equipment
Plumbing                               $8 per fixture
   Equipment installation           $30
   Lateral inspection
Remodeling requiring permit            $0.05 per sq. ft. of affected area*
Notes to Table:
*Electrical, HVAC, and plumbing additional
 
         e.   Penalty. A penalty fee shall be assessed for any work started
without a building permit. The penalty fee shall be equal to the permit fee.
The village shall retain all penalty fees; the Clerk shall attribute the same
to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-14) (Res. 2001-5, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 15-1-15 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter, or of the
Administrative Code adopted by reference, is adjudged unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-15)
§ 15-1-16 PENALTIES AND VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Any building or structure hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, or
repaired or any use hereafter established in violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed an unlawful building, structure, or use. The
Building Inspector shall promptly report all such violations to the Village
Board and Village Attorney who shall bring an action to enjoin the erection,
enlargement, alteration, repair, or moving of such building or structure, or
the establishment of such use of buildings in violation of this chapter or to
cause such building, structure, or use to be removed, and may also be subject
to a penalty as provided in general penalty provisions of the code of
ordinances. In any such action, the fact that a permit was issued shall not
constitute a defense, nor shall any error, oversight, or dereliction of duty on
the part of the Building Inspector or other village officials constitute a
defense. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by
injunctional order at the suit of the owner or owners of any real estate within
the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (b)   (1)   If an inspection reveals a noncompliance with this chapter or
the Uniform Dwelling Code, the Building Inspector shall notify the applicant
and the owner, in writing, of the violation to be corrected. All cited
violations shall be corrected within 30 days after written notification unless
an extension of time is granted pursuant to Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters SPS 320.
      (2)   If, after written notification, the violation is not corrected
within 30 days, a stop-work order may be served on the owner, or his or her
representative, and a copy thereof shall be posted at the construction site.
Such stop-work order shall not be removed except by written notice of the
Building Inspector after satisfactory evidence has been supplied that the cited
violation has been corrected.
      (3)   Each day each violation continues after the 30 day written notice
period has run shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing in this chapter
shall preclude the village from maintaining any appropriate action to prevent
or remove a violation of any provision of this chapter or the Uniform Dwelling
Code.
      (4)   If any construction or work governed by the provisions of this
chapter or the Uniform Dwelling Code is commenced prior to the issuance of a
permit, double fees shall be charged.
   (c)   Any person feeling aggrieved by an order or a determination of the
Building Inspector may appeal from such order or determination to the Board of
Appeals. Those procedures customarily used to effectuate an appeal to the Board
of Appeals shall apply.
   (d)   The Village Attorney or other attorney hired by the village or the
village’s insurance carrier shall defend any officer, agent, or employee of the
village in any lawsuit brought against said individuals as a result of any
action required to be performed or permitted to be performed by said officer,
agent, or employee in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
The village shall not be required to defend any officer, agent, or employee who
engages in activities outside the scope of his or her employment or activities
not required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties under this
chapter. The village shall indemnify any officer, agent, or employee of the
village who is required by a court order to pay damages if said damages are
determined by said court to have resulted from actions by said officer, agent,
or employee which are required or permitted under the village code in the
discharge of said individual’s duties. The village shall not indemnify any
officer, agent, or employee whose actions are determined by said court to be
outside the scope of employment or determined to be both not required and not
permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-16)
CHAPTER 2: GRIEVANCES REGARDING ACCESS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS BY HANDICAPPED
PERSONS
Section
   
15-2-1   Grievance procedures regarding access to public buildings by
handicapped persons
§ 15-2-1 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING ACCESS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS BY
HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (a)   Statement of purpose. The village is committed to providing adequate
access by handicapped or visually impaired persons to public buildings. This
section provides for a grievance procedure providing for prompt and equitable
resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by § 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. § 794); § 504 states, in
part, that “no otherwise qualified handicapped individual...shall, solely by
reason of his handicap, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving federal financial assistance...”
   (b)   Complaint procedure.
      (1)   Complaints should be filed with the Village Administrator, Clerk,
or highest elected official, as appropriate, who has been designated to
coordinate § 504 Compliance.
      (2)   A complaint should be filed in writing or verbally, contain the
name and address of the person filing it, and briefly describe the alleged
violation of the regulations.
      (3)   A complaint should be filed within 30 days after the complainant
becomes aware of the alleged violation. (Processing of allegations of
discrimination occurring before this grievance procedure was in place will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.)
      (4)   An investigation, as may be appropriate, shall follow a filing of a
complaint. The investigation will be conducted by an appropriate person
designated by the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, who should review the Handicapped Requirements Handbook published
by the Federal Programs Advisory Service.
      (5)   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and
description of the resolution, if any, shall be issued by the designated person
and a copy forwarded to the complainant no later than 30 days after its filing.
      (6)   The § 504 Coordinator shall maintain the files and records of the
village relating to the complaints filed.
   (c)   Appeals.
      (1)   The complainant may appeal the decision of the § 504 Coordinator
where he or she is dissatisfied with the resolution. The appeal request shall
be made within seven days to the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest
elected official, as appropriate.
      (2)   The grievance shall be heard by the Village Board within ten
working days after the filing of an appeals request. The grievance shall be
heard at the Village Hall at a convenient time fixed by the Board. The Village
Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate, shall give
at least three days’ written notice to the applicant by first class mail of any
such grievance hearing.
      (3)   Either party to the grievance may be represented, present evidence
by testimony or otherwise, cross-examine witnesses, and make argument either in
person or by an agent of his or her choosing. Proceedings may, and, upon
request of the applicant, shall, be recorded.
      (4)   The decision of the Village Board on the grievance appeal shall be
in writing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The decision of the
Board shall be rendered within three working days of the close of the hearing,
and the Village Board shall immediately upon rendering the decision mail a copy
thereof by first class mail to the applicant at the current post office address
given in his or her application and record a copy of its determination with the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate.
   (d)   Other remedies. The right of a person to a prompt and equitable
resolution of the complaint filed hereunder shall not be impaired by the
person’s pursuit of other remedies such as the filing of a § 504 complaint with
federal agencies. Utilization of this grievance procedure is not a prerequisite
to the pursuit of other remedies. However, the village believes that resolution
of the complaint will be more promptly achieved if the village is able to
provide a remedy before the complaint is brought to an external organization.
   (e)   Due process. This section shall be construed to protect the
substantive rights of interested persons, to meet appropriate due process
standards and to assure that the village complies with § 504 regulations.
(Prior Code, § 15-2-1)
CHAPTER 3: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
15-3-1   State on fair housing
   
15-3-2   Definitions as user in this chapter
   
15-3-3   Unlawful practices
   
15-3-4   Exemptions
   
15-3-5   Enforcement
§ 15-3-1 STATE ON FAIR HOUSING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village to assure equal
opportunity to all persons to live in adequate housing facilities regardless of
race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, handicap, sexual
preference, marital status of persons maintaining a household, lawful source of
income, familial status, place of birth, or age, and, to that end, to prohibit
discrimination in housing by any persons.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-1) (Ord. passed 12-17-1992)
§ 15-3-2 DEFINITIONS AS USER IN THIS CHAPTER.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION/DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any difference in treatment
based upon race, color, religion, sex, sexual preference, ancestry, handicap,
marital status, place of birth, familial status, or national origin; or any act
that is unlawful under this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any
vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction thereof of
any such buildings or structure.
   FAMILY. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, and receivers.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person as defined herein, engaged in the business
of lending money or guaranteeing loans.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION/DWELLING. Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended
for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land
which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of
any real property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for any of
the purposes set forth in this section.
   MORTGAGE BROKER. An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as defined by state statutes.
   OPEN MARKET. The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs, or by any
other advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof,
indicating that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental, or lease.
   OWNER. Lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or other
person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell, rent,
or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Individuals, children, firms, associations, joint ventures,
partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries,
corporations, and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER/REAL ESTATE SALESMAN. Any individual qualified by law,
who, for a fee, commission, salary, or for other valuable consideration, or who
with the intention or expectation of receiving or collecting same, lists,
sells, purchases, rents, or leases any housing accommodations, including
options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan, secured
by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing accommodation;
or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for
collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or she undertakes
to promote the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation
through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such purpose; or an
individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives, and condominiums.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-2) (Ord. passed 12-17-1992)
§ 15-3-3 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any accommodation, it shall be
unlawful within the village for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker, or real estate salesperson, or any representative of the above,
to:
   (a)   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent, or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, handicap, marital status, sexual
preference, sex, age, familial status, or place of birth;
   (b)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing
accommodation, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith;
   (c)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent, or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, handicap, marital status,
sexual preference, sex, age, or place of birth;
   (d)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, handicap, marital status, sexual preference, sex,
age, familial status, or place of birth;
   (e)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental, or lease when in fact it is
so available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, marital status, sexual preference, sex, age, familial status, or
place of birth;
   (f)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post, or mail, or cause to be
made, published, printed, circulated, posted, or mailed, any notice, statement,
or advertisement, or to announce a policy or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease, or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease, or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination;
   (g)   To offer, solicit, accept, or use a list of any housing accommodation
for sale, purchase, rental, or lease with the understanding that a person may
be subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale, purchase, rental,
or lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith;
   (h)   To induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental, or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, handicap, marital status, sexual preference, sex,
age, familial status, or place of birth in the area to be affected by such
sale, purchase, rental, or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   (i)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental, or lease, or the anticipated listing of any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation in any area
in the village for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce any such
listing or any of the above transactions;
   (j)   To engage in or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest, or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental,
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   (k)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he
or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any
manner in any investigation, proceeding, hearing, or conference under this
chapter;
   (l)   To aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any orders issued
thereunder;
   (m)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter;
   (n)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from, a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
handicap, marital status, sexual preference, sex, age, familial status, or
place of birth;
   (o)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company, or
other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business consists, in
whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or
to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration, or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial
assistance because of the race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
handicap, marital status, sexual preference, sex, familial status, age, or
place of birth of such person or of any person associated with him or her in
connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such
loan or other financial assistance, which is to be made or given; or
   (p)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization, or other
service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in their terms or
conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, ancestry, national origin, handicap, marital status, sexual
preference, sex, age, familial status, or place of birth.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-3) (Ord. passed 12-17-1992)
§ 15-3-4 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (a)   A religious organization, association, or society, or any non-profit
institution or organization operating, supervised, or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, which
limits the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates
for other than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which
gives preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, familial status, religion, ancestry,
national origin, handicap, marital status, sexual preference, sex, age, or
place of birth.
   (b)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members.
   (c)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale the exemption granted by this subsection (c) shall apply
only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or served on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time; provided further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use of any manner of the sales or rental facilities, or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson, or person;
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §
3604; and
      (3)   Without the violation of §
15-3-3, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   (d)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-4)
§ 15-3-5 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this chapter may
file a complaint with the Village Board within 30 days after the aggrieved
person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice, and in no event more
than 60 days after the alleged unlawful practice has occurred. The Village
Board, or only authorized representative, shall receive each complaint and
attempt to resolve each complaint. Failure to achieve a resolution acceptable
to both parties and compliance with this chapter shall cause the Village Board
to forward the complaint and findings to appropriate state and federal
agencies.
(Prior Code, § 15-3-5)
CHAPTER 4: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
15-4-1   International Property Maintenance Code
§ 15-4-1 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (a)   Code adopted. The International Property Maintenance Code, as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
property maintenance code of the village, and by reference is made a part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein. A copy of these property maintenance
code provisions shall be kept on file in the Village Administrator’s, Clerk’s,
or highest elected official’s, as appropriate, office. Any provision of the
property maintenance code that is in conflict with an existing provision of the
code of ordinances of the village shall be controlled by the provisions found
in the property maintenance code.
   (b)   Exceptions. Nothing in this chapter or in the property maintenance
code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending
in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or
causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby
repealed by this chapter; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired, or affected by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-4-1)
CHAPTER 5: RENTAL HOUSING CODE
Section
   
15-5-1   Purpose and scope
   
15-5-2   Definitions
   
15-5-3   Inspection and licensing rental units
   
15-5-4   Enforcement, service of notices, and orders, hearings
   
15-5-5   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
15-5-6   Minimum standards for light, heating, and ventilating
   
15-5-7   General requirements relating to the safe and sanitary maintenance of
parts of dwellings and dwelling units
   
15-5-8   Occupancy limitations
   
15-5-9   Minimum hot water requirements, electrical service, and minimum number
of electrical outlets and fixtures per room, and screening requirements
   
15-5-10   Minimum property maintenance requirements
   
15-5-11   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
15-5-12   Designation of unfit dwellings, legal procedure of condemnation
   
15-5-13   Penalty
   
15-5-14   Pre-existing conditions, time to comply
   
15-5-15   Codes adopted
§ 15-5-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this rental housing code (this “chapter”) is to ensure that
residential rental properties conform to minimum safety, health, and
maintenance standards. This chapter shall include all single-family and multi-
family residential rental properties within the village.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-1)
§ 15-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      BASEMENT. A space of full story height below the first floor which is not
designed or used primarily for year around living accommodations. Space, partly
below grade, which is designed and finished as habitable space is not defined
as BASEMENT space.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person, or his or her authorized representative,
to whom is minimally certified to conduct construction inspections based on
Wis. Admin. Code, Chapters SPS 320 through 325 standards, designated the title
by appointment of the Village President and the confirmation of the Village
Board.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having two-thirds or more of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the grounds. (See BASEMENT for reference.)
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials which may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the Health Officer.
      GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or other enclosed floor space used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or corridors, closets,
and storage space.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The person, or his or her authorized representative, to
whom is designated the title by appointment of the Village President and the
confirmation of the Village Board.
      INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
      LANDLORD. The building owner, or his or her authorized agent, or the
person authorized to rent or lease the building.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT OR TENANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in or
having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are offered for rent.
      ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature which is 15F above
the lowest recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly, or severally with others:
         a.   Has legal or equitable title to any dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; provided, whenever the dwelling
or dwelling unit is subject to conditional sales contract, lease with option to
purchase, or any other form of written contract under the terms of which any
person is entitled to a conveyance of legal title upon payment of a specified
sum; the OWNER shall mean the person who shall have such a contractual right,
as well as the person who is holding the legal title; or
         b.   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit as executor, executrix, trustee, receiver, or guardian of the owner as
defined in subsection a. above. Any such person thus representing the actual
OWNER shall be bound to comply with this chapter to the same extent as if he or
she were the owner. Any person acting as the agent of the owner shall not be
construed to be the owner within the terms of this chapter, but shall be bound
to notify the owner, by means of a registered letter addressed to the owner at
his or her last known address, of any order or notice issued by the Building
Inspector relating to the property of the owner.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, or partnership.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal equipment, waste
pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents,
floor drains, laundry traps, drinking fountains, gutters, downspouts, area
drains, lines, sanitary and storm sewer systems; also subsoil drainage and any
other supplied fixtures together with all connection to water, sewer, or gas
lines.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitat unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible or noncombustible waste materials, except garbage;
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood excelsior,
trimmings, leaves, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery, or dust.
      SUPPLIED. Anything paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the
control of the owner or operator.
      RENTAL PROPERTY. Property which is rented or leased to any person other
than the owner or members of his or her immediate family.
   (b)   Clarification. Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,”
“rooming house,” “rooming unit,” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part
thereof.”
(Prior Code, § 15-5-2)
§ 15-5-3 INSPECTION AND LICENSING RENTAL UNITS.
   (a)   License required. No person shall rent or lease a dwelling, or any
part thereof, to another for residential occupancy without a rental license
being issued by the Village Board.
   (b)   Eligibility. An owner or manager of a rental property is eligible to
obtain a rental license upon satisfaction of the following provisions.
      (1)   Completion of an application form provided by the village.
      (2)   Payment of license application and inspection fees as provided in
subsection (e) below.
      (3)   No outstanding orders or notices of violations under §
15-5-4 exist.
      (4)   An inspection of the property has been conducted by the Building
Inspector not less than once every three years.
   (c)   License term and expiration. All rental licenses in the village will
expire on the same date. The expiration date for all such licenses will be
December 31 of the year 2000, 2003, 2006, 2009, and every third year
thereafter. Every rental license in effect prior to December 31, 2000 shall
expire on that date. Any new license issued after January 1 of the year
following expiration shall expire on December 31 of the year 2003, 2006, 2009,
and every third year thereafter. Thereafter, every rental unit in compliance
with this chapter shall be issued a new license effective January 1 of the year
following expiration for a period of three years. Not less than 30 days prior
to such expiration, the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, shall notify each current licensee by regular mail to
the assessment roll address that the rental license will expire on December 31
and may be renewed upon compliance with this chapter.
   (d)   Inspections required for licensing.
      (1)   Initial inspections. Under the original Title 15, Chapter 5, every
property in the village rented or leased to another prior to June 30, 1997 was
required to be inspected and licensed prior to that date. Every property
initially rented or leased to another after June 30, 1997 also shall be
initially inspected by the Building Inspector and found to be in compliance
with this chapter prior to issuance of a rental license or occupancy by a
tenant.
      (2)   Inspections required for license renewal. Every rental license in
effect prior to December 31 of a year in which all village rental licenses
expire (2000, 2003, 2006, and the like) shall be inspected for compliance with
this section prior to August 31 of the year in which such expiration will
occur. Properties found to be out of compliance during such renewal inspection
(s) shall be brought into compliance prior to issuance of a new license
effective January 1 of the following year. The license of a property initially
licensed during the year when all licenses are to expire shall expire on
December 31 with all other licenses. However, no more than one pre-licensing
inspection shall be required during the same year, unless the Building
Inspector has any reason to believe that the property may now be out of
compliance with this section.
      (3)   Interim inspections to assure compliance during license period. The
need for additional or interim inspections will be left to the discretion of
the Building Inspector, except that properties receiving written complaint by a
tenant or non-tenant complainant shall be inspected as soon as reasonably
possible after receipt of a written complaint to the Building Inspector within
ten days of receipt or immediately if danger to the health, safety, and welfare
to the tenant seems imminent.
      (4)   Notification of inspections. The Building Inspector will notify
each current licensee, by regular mail to the assessment roll address at least
seven business days prior to a regular inspection, or as close thereof as
possible prior to an initial or interim inspection. In the event that interim
inspections may be required due to an item and/or items designated as critical
being found during a routine inspection or inspection requested by a tenant or
determined by the Building Inspector to be needed, and if a followup inspection
is required to ensure compliance with this chapter, then no additional mid-term
inspections fees will be charged except as provided in subsection (e) below.
   (e)   License fees. Fees required to obtain a rental license shall include:
      (1)   Application fees. The fee for processing rental license
applications will be $5 per dwelling unit for the term of the license, or any
part thereof.
      (2)   Inspection fees.
         a.   For inspections needed for initial license and renewals. In
addition to the application fee, an inspection fee will be charged in the
amount of $50 per dwelling unit for the term of the license, or any part
thereof.
         b.   For interim inspections to assure continued compliance during the
license period. No fee will be charged for interim inspections required during
the license period with the following exceptions:
            1.   Initial inspection fees for properties licensed after
commencement of the village’s normal license period shall be charged pursuant
to subsection (e)(2)(a);
            2.   A fee of $25 will be charged to the landlord for each interim
inspection in excess of three during a rental license period, but such charge
shall not apply if the inspection finds the unit to be in compliance with this
section; and
            3.   In the event the same tenant or the same non-tenant
complainant requests inspections of the same rental unit in excess of three
times during a rental license period, all of which are found to be invalid or
in compliance, then a fee of $25 will be charged to such complainant for
processing the fourth or grater invalid complaint(s).
   (f)   Indemnify. In the event any subsection, clause, phrase, or portion of
this section is for any reason held illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of this section. It is the legislative intent of the
Village Board that this section would have been adopted if such illegal
provision has not been included or any illegal application had not been made.
   (g)   Severability. All ordinances or part of ordinances and resolutions in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed. This section shall take effect from and
after its passage and publication.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-3)
§ 15-5-4 ENFORCEMENT, SERVICE OF NOTICES, AND ORDERS, HEARINGS.
   (a)   Notice. Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that violations of this chapter exist, he or she
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible therefor, and to any known agent of such person, as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the grounds for issuance of the violation
notice;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act which the
notice requires;
      (4)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
      (5)   Be personally served upon the owner, or his or her agent, or the
occupant, as the case may require. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof is
served upon him or her personally, or if a copy is left with a responsible
person at the residence or office of the person to be served. If personal
service cannot be accomplished, substitute service is allowed. Such service
shall be deemed to be accomplished if a copy of the notice is sent by
registered mail to the last known address of the person to be served and a copy
thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling which is
affected by the notice, or is published in the official newspaper of the
village. Any other method of service authorized or required under the laws of
this state shall be sufficient if personal service cannot be accomplished and
if substitute service is deemed to be ineffective to give notice. A copy of the
notice shall also be served upon the village.
   (b)   Variances allowed. Any person affected by the determination that a
violation of this chapter exists, may request the issuance of a variance by the
Building Inspector. If the Building Inspector determines that the issuance of
the variance requested is reasonable and that the failure to issue such a
variance would cause undue hardship, the Building Inspector may issue the
variance. If such a variance is issued, the Building Inspector shall make a
written report to the Village Board stating the violation that exists, the
variance that was issued and the reasons for the issuance of the variance. The
Village Board may overrule the variance granted only after notice of the intent
to do so is given to the person affected.
   (c)   Hearing. Any person affected by a notice of violation issued by the
Building Inspector, the denial of a variance by the Building Inspector, or the
overruling of a variance by the Village Board, may request and shall be granted
a hearing on the matter before the Village Board, provided such person shall
file in the office of the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected
official, as appropriate, within ten days after service of the notice of the
violation, denial of the variance, or service of the notice that a variance was
overruled, and a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a
brief statement of the grounds therefor. Upon receipt of such petition, the
Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as appropriate,
shall arrange a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. Such hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after
the receipt of the request therefor. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice should not
be complied with or why the variance requested should be granted.
   (d)   Action after hearing. After such hearing, the Village Board shall
sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice, or grant, deny, or modify the
variance, depending on its findings as to whether the provisions of this
chapter have been complied with. If the Board shall sustain the notice, said
notice shall be deemed to be an order. If the Board shall modify such notice,
the modification shall be placed in writing and it shall be deemed to be an
order. If the Board denies the variance, the variance previously issued by the
Building Inspector shall be void. If the Board grants a new variance, it shall
be in writing and that document shall be deemed to be the variance that is in
effect.
   (e)   Notice to be an order if not appealed. Any notice served pursuant to
subsection (a) above of an alleged violation or of a denial of variance shall
automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing is not filed
with the Village Administrator, Clerk, or highest elected official, as
appropriate, within ten days after such notice is served.
   (f)   Record of hearing. The proceedings at such hearing, including the
findings and decision of the Board, shall be summarized, reduced to writing and
entered as a matter of public record in the offices of the village. Such record
shall also include a copy of every notice, variance, overruling of a variance,
or order issued in connection with the matter.
   (g)   Appeal to court. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village
Board may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as
provided by the laws of the state.
   (h)   Emergency orders. Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health
he or she may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems
necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, such order shall be effective immediately; but upon petition to the
Village Board, the person subject to the order shall be afforded a hearing as
soon as possible in the manner provided in subsection (b) above. After such
hearing, depending on the findings as to whether the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with, the Village Board shall continue such order in effect,
or modify it or revoke it or issue a variance from this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-4)
§ 15-5-5 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall lease, rent, or otherwise let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements.
   (a)   Smoke alarms. Every dwelling unit under the jurisdiction of this code
shall have approved and working smoke alarms installed in each sleeping area on
each floor level, and at the head of every open stairway. It shall be the
responsibility of the tenant to furnish batteries for the alarms if a battery
is necessary to the proper operation of the alarm. It shall also be the
responsibility of the tenant to notify the landlord of any nonfunctioning or
malfunctioning smoke alarm, if the failure to function properly is caused by
reasons other than the installation of a working battery. It shall be the
responsibility of the landlord to make effective and timely repairs or
replacement of smoke alarms when notified by the tenant. The landlord shall
serve written notice upon the tenant of the landlord’s and the tenant’s
responsibility concerning smoke alarms. For the purposes of this section,
written notice may consist of a notice that is conspicuously posted within the
dwelling unit.
   (b)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sanitary sewer system
in conformity with the State Plumbing Code.
   (c)   Bathroom. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room within its walls,
separate from the habitable rooms, which affords privacy to a person within
said room and which is equipped with a flush water closet, a lavatory basin,
and a bathtub or shower and the necessary fixtures and accessories therefor in
good working condition and properly connected to hot and cold water lines and
sanitary sewer system in conformity with the State Plumbing Code.
   (d)   Connection of facilities. Every tub or shower required under this
chapter and every kitchen, sink, lavatory basin, and bath shall be connected
with water and sewer lines in conformity with the State Plumbing Code.
   (e)   Garbage disposal facilities. Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers as required by
Title 8, Chapter 3.
   (f)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall have two safe and unobstructed means
of egress, as required by the State Uniform Building Code and the ordinances of
the village. Every building which is remodeled into multi-family dwelling
units, after the effective date of this chapter, shall provide at least two
approved exits from each dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-5)
§ 15-5-6 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, HEATING, AND VENTILATING.
   No person shall lease, rent, or otherwise let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (a)   Window area.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors with an area equal to at least 8% of the floor
area of that room.
      (2)   If no such window or skylight is provided, alternative methods of
lighting and ventilating that room will be allowed providing that they meet
both the following minimum standards.
         a.   Provide light equivalent to six foot-candle at 30 inches above
the floor.
         b.   Provide ventilation to that room of 0.35 air changes per hour or
have a whole house system of ventilation which provides fresh air at a rate of
15 cubic feet per minute per occupant as defined by §
15-5-8.
   (b)   Openable window area in bedrooms. Every habitable bedroom shall have
at least one window or skylight which can be easily opened and of sufficient
size to allow an average size adult egress in an emergency situation.
   (c)   Bathrooms and water closets. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms contained in subsection (a)(1) above, except that no window or
skylight shall be required in bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped
with a mechanical ventilating system as required by the State Uniform Dwelling
Code.
   (d)   Heating facilities. Every dwelling shall contain heating facilities
which are properly installed according to the standards adopted herein, and are
maintained in safe and good working condition, and are capable of safely and
adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water closet
compartments in every dwelling located in the village to the minimum standards
required by the State Uniform Building Code.
   (e)   Proper venting required. All gas fired heating units and appliances
shall be vented into a chimney or gas vent in accordance with adopted standards
in the State Uniform Building Code. No gas appliance shall be vented into an
unlined masonry chimney.
   (f)   Lighting. Every hallway and stairway in every multiple or rental
dwelling shall be adequately lighted in conformity with the State Uniform
Building Code.
   (g)   Basement windows. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to
be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide entry for rodents shall be supplied with a screen or such other device
as will effectively prevent their entrance.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-6)
§ 15-5-7 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE OF
PARTS OF DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   No person shall lease, rent, or otherwise let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements.
   (a)   Foundations, floors, ceilings, and roofs. Every foundation, floor,
wall, ceiling, and roof shall be weathertight and rodent-proof, capable of
affording privacy, and shall be kept in good repair. Every roof shall be kept
in good repair and watertight.
   (b)   Skylights, exterior doors, basement hatchways, and windows. Every
window, skylight, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be weathertight,
watertight and rodent-proof, and shall be kept in sound working condition and
in good repair.
   (c)   Security of ground floor windows and doors. All ground floor windows
and doors shall have an approved locking device installed which provides a
means of securing the door or window.
   (d)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
every porch, and every appurtenance thereto shall be constructed to include
hand and/or guard rails as required by the State Uniform Dwelling Code, and are
to be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting any load
that normal use may be caused to be placed upon, and shall be kept in sound
condition and in good repair.
   (e)   Plumbing fixtures and water waste pipes. Every plumbing fixture and
water waste pipes shall be constructed and maintained in good sanitary working
condition, free from defects, leaks, and obstructions.
   (f)   Bathroom and floor surfaces. Every water compartment floor surface and
bathroom floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
impervious to water and as to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (g)   Safe installation required. Every supplied facility, piece of
equipment, or utility which is required under this section shall be so
constructed or installed so that it will function safely and effectively, and
shall be maintained in working condition.
   (h)   Rented premises to be fit for human occupancy. No owner shall let to
any other occupant any vacant dwelling unit unless it is clean, sanitary, and
fit for human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-7)
§ 15-5-8 OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall lease, rent, or otherwise let to another for occupancy any
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements.
   (a)   Gross floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain a minimum gross
floor area of not less than 150 square feet for the first occupant and 100
square feet for each additional occupant. The floor area shall be calculated on
the basis for the total area of all habitable rooms.
   (b)   Sleeping rooms. In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every
room occupied for sleeping purposes shall contain a minimum gross floor area of
70 square feet for the first person and an additional 30 square feet for each
additional occupant of the sleeping room.
   (c)   Basement dwelling. No basement or cellar space shall be used as a
dwelling unit unless it complies with the minimum requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-8)
§ 15-5-9 MINIMUM HOT WATER REQUIREMENTS, ELECTRICAL SERVICE, AND MINIMUM NUMBER
OF ELECTRICAL OUTLETS AND FIXTURES PER ROOM, AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be
supplied with water heating facilities which are installed in an approved
manner, properly maintained, and capable of heating water to such a temperature
as to permit water to flow at every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub,
shower, and laundry facility or other similar units, in an amount and at a
temperature required by the State Uniform Dwelling Code.
   (b)   Electrical outlets. Every habitable room of a dwelling unit shall
contain at least two separate and remote outlets, one of which may be a ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. Every bathroom, laundry room, or furnace
room shall contain at least one electric light fixture. In addition, every
bathroom and laundry room shall contain at least one electric outlet. Any
electrical outlet located in a bath or toilet room shall be an approved GFCI
type electrical outlet.
   (c)   Screen requirements. Every window or other device with openings to
outdoor space, used, or intended to be used for ventilation, shall be supplied
with screens.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-9)
§ 15-5-10 MINIMUM PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the landlord to ensure that the property
meets the following standards. Said responsibility may become the
responsibility of the tenant if the structure contains three or less dwelling
units, and if the landlord requires the tenant to meet these standards m the
written lease for occupancy.
   (a)   Exterior property. All exterior property shall be maintained in a
condition free from debris, rubbish, garbage, physical hazards, rodent
harborage, and infestation.
   (b)   Noxious weeds. All exterior property areas shall be kept free of
noxious weeds.
   (c)   Protection from elements, appearance. All exterior surfaces of
buildings made of materials not inherently resistant to deterioration shall be
periodically coated with paint or another suitable preservative which provides
adequate resistance to weathering, and maintains a neat and attractive
appearance.
   (d)   Snow and ice removal. All outdoor walkways and parking areas shall be
kept free from snow, ice, or other hazardous weather conditions.
   (e)   Common areas. All shared and public areas of a building shall be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-10)
§ 15-5-11 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (a)   Public areas. Every owner of a structure containing more than three
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean, safe, and
sanitary condition the shared or public area of the dwelling and premises
thereof.
   (b)   Duty to keep in clean, safe, and sanitary condition. Every occupant of
a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition
that part of the dwelling or dwelling unit and premises thereof which he or she
occupies and controls.
   (c)   Rubbish disposal. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
dispose of all his or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it
in a rubbish container as required by §
8-3-5.
   (d)   Garbage disposal. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
dispose of all his or her garbage and any other organic waste which might
provide food for rodents in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the
garbage storage containers furnished as required by §
8-3-5.
   (e)   Hanging screens. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
be responsible for hanging all screens whenever the same are required under
this section or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, except
where the owner has agreed to supply such service.
   (f)   Infestations. Where rodent or insect infestation exists in two or more
dwelling units in a building, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units, or in one dwelling unit where caused by
the owner’s failure to maintain the building in a rodent-proof or reasonably
insect-proof condition, the owner shall be responsible for their extermination.
If rodents exist in one unit and their presence is not caused by the owner’s
failure to maintain the building, the tenant shall be responsible for the
extermination of the rodents.
   (g)   Plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all
plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be
responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-11)
§ 15-5-12 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS, LEGAL PROCEDURE OF CONDEMNATION.
   (a)   Requirements to condemn. The designation of dwellings or dwelling
units as unfit for human habitation and the procedure for the condemnation and
placarding of such unfit dwellings or dwelling units shall be carried out in
compliance with the following requirements. Any dwelling or dwelling unit which
shall be found to have any of the following defects shall be condemned as unfit
for human habitation and shall be so designated by the Building Inspector.
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health and safety of
the occupants or of the public.
      (2)   One which lacks electrical illumination, ventilation, or sanitary
facilities adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public.
      (3)   One which because of its general condition or location is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   (b)   Vacating premises. Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit
for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by the Building
Inspector, shall be vacated within 30 days as ordered by the Health Officer or
Building Inspector. If such dwelling is not vacated voluntarily, the Police
Department will forcibly vacate the said property.
   (c)   Reoccupation of premises. No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been
condemned and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for
human habitation until written approval is secured from, and such placard is
removed by, the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall remove such
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated.
   (d)   Defacing or removing placards. No person shall deface or remove the
placard from any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit
for human habitation and placarded as such, except as provided in subsection
(c) above.
   (e)   Hearing. Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the
condemning or placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human
habitation may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Village Board, under the procedure set forth in §
15-5-4.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-12)
§ 15-5-13 PENALTY.
   (a)   Type of penalty. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter or fails to comply with any order, rule, or regulation made hereunder
shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
1-1-6.
   (b)   Continued violations. When the Building Inspector determines that the
same violations are being repeated or continuing without regard to orders, he
or she shall refer the landlord to the Village Board for revocation of the
rental license.
   (c)   License revocation. Should the Village Board revoke a rental license,
the dwelling or dwelling units in question must be vacated in 30 days. A new
license must be approved by the Village Board prior to re-occupancy.
   (d)   Termination of utilities. Any rental unit occupied in defiance of a
Board order to vacate shall have the water utility terminated until such time
as the building is brought into compliance and the order lifted by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-13)
§ 15-5-14 PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS, TIME TO COMPLY.
   Prior to the adoption of this chapter, there may be dwellings or dwelling
units which do not comply with the provisions of this chapter. The Building
Inspector shall make an initial inspection of all rental dwellings or dwelling
units within the village to determine if any such violations exist. At such
determination, the Building Inspector shall give notice and an order, as
outlined in §
15-5-4, to the landlord, of the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the
rules and regulations of this chapter by June 30, 1997. Any new work done on
units after the adoption of this chapter must comply with the requirements of
the State Uniform Dwelling Code, the State Plumbing Code, and the State
Building and Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning Code, when such codes
are applicable to the work being performed.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-14)
§ 15-5-15 CODES ADOPTED.
   The standards contained in the following codes when referenced by this code
are hereby adopted and made part of this chapter by reference, as if set forth
completely herein.
   (a)   Code of ordinances of the village.
   (b)   State Uniform Dwelling Code.
   (c)   State Administrative Code.
   (d)   State Plumbing Code.
   (e)   State Building and Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning Code.
(Prior Code, § 15-5-15)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Wisconsin Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WISCONSIN STATUTES
Wisconsin Statute Cite Code Section
Wisconsin Statute Cite                   Code Section
6.55(2)                                  2-1-4
6.55(6)                                  2-1-4
Chapter 7                                2-1-4
7.23                                     3-3-9;
                                         3-3-10
7.30(4)                                  2-1-4
8.10                                     2-3-11
8.11                                     2-3-11
8.17(2)                                  11-5-6
12.04                                    13-1-100
13.48(13)                                13-3-11
15.103(1)                                5-1-9
16.61(5)-(7)                             3-3-7
16.611                                   3-3-7
17.03                                    2-3-16
17.035                                   2-3-16
17.12(1)(a)                              2-3-17
17.12(1)(c)                              2-3-17
17.12(1)(c) and (d)                      2-3-2
17.16                                    2-3-17
17.23                                    2-3-16
                                         2-3-10;
19.01                                    2-3-12;
                                         2-4-3;
                                         10-1-51
19.01(4)(c)                              2-3-11
19.21                                    2-3-18
19.21(4)(a)                              3-3-9
19.32(2)                                 3-3-1
19.34                                    3-3-4
19.35(1)                                 2-4-1;
                                         3-3-4
19.36                                    3-3-6
19.37                                    3-3-5
19.37(1)                                 3-3-5
19.56                                    2-5-2
19.81                                    2-4-4;
                                         6-5-6
19.81 et seq.                            2-2-11;
                                         2-4-2
19.81(3)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.82(2)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.84(2)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.84(3)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85                                    2-2-11; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(a)                              3-3-6; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
                                         3-3-6;
19.85(1)(b)                              7-2-10; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(b) and (c)                      3-3-6
19.85(1)(c)                              Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(d)                              3-3-6; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(e)                              3-3-6; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(ee) and (eg)                    3-3-6
19.85(1)(f)                              3-3-6; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(g)                              3-3-6; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(1)(h)                              3-3-6; Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(2)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.85(3)                                 Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide”
19.89                                    2-4-4
Chapter 19, Subchapter I                 2-3-15
Chapter 19, Subchapter IV                2-2-10;
                                         2-2-11
23.10                                    7-1-1
23.32(1)                                 14-1-10
23.33                                    10-4-1
23.33(5)(b)                              10-4-1
Chapter 27                               6-4-3
27.09                                    6-4-6;
                                         6-4-12
Chapter 29                               7-1-19
29.288                                   11-1-1
                                         11-1-1;
Chapter 30                               13-3-23;
                                         13-3-24
30.12(4)(a)                              13-3-11
30.121(1)                                13-3-41
Chapter 31                               13-3-23;
                                         13-3-24
35.93                                    14-1-10
43.30(1m)                                3-3-6
46.03(22)                                13-1-140
Chapter 48                               11-5-1
48.02(7m)                                13-1-140
48.17(2)                                 11-5-3
48.20(4)                                 11-5-1
48.20(5)                                 11-5-1
48.20(6)                                 11-5-1
48.277                                   11-5-1
48.343                                   11-5-6
48.344                                   11-5-4;
                                         11-5-6
48.345                                   11-5-6
48.60                                    13-1-140
48.62                                    13-1-140
49.45(47)(a)                             11-2-10
Chapter 50                               5-3-4
50.01                                    13-1-140
50.58                                    11-1-1
59.692(7)(a)(1-3)                        13-3-15
                                         13-1-22;
60.63                                    13-1-23;
                                         13-1-24;
                                         13-1-25
Chapter 61                               2-1-1;
                                         2-5-2
61.19                                    2-3-10
61.195                                   2-3-10
61.197                                   2-3-10
61.20                                    2-2-2
61.23                                    2-2-5;
                                         2-3-10
61.24                                    2-3-10;
                                         2-3-16
61.25                                    2-3-4
61.325                                   2-2-2
61.26                                    2-3-5
61.27                                    2-3-10;
                                         2-3-16
                                         2-2-1;
                                         2-2-7;
                                         2-2-8;
                                         2-2-9;
61.32                                    2-2-10;
                                         2-2-11;
                                         2-2-12;
                                         2-2-13;
                                         2-2-16
61.34                                    2-2-1;
                                         2-2-5
61.34(2)                                 2-2-6
                                         2-2-5;
                                         2-4-2;
                                         2-4-3;
61.35                                    9-1-50.5;
                                         13-1-1;
                                         13-1-112;
                                         13-3-1;
                                         13-3-12
61.351                                   13-3-1
61.351(6)                                13-3-37
61.50                                    2-2-16
61.51                                    3-1-8
61.51(3)                                 3-1-6
61.65(1)(am)                             2-3-6;
                                         5-1-9
                                         2-3-11;
Chapter 62                               2-3-1;
                                         14-1-10
62.09(2)                                 2-3-14
62.12(7)                                 3-1-7
62.13(1)—(6)                           5-1-9
62.13(5)                                 5-1-9
62.13(6m)                                5-1-9
62.15                                    3-1-12
                                         2-4-2;
                                         2-4-3;
62.23                                    13-1-112;
                                         13-3-12;
                                         14-1-10
62.23(1)                                 2-2-5;
                                         13-3-41
62.23(7)                                 13-1-1
62.23(7)(b)                              13-1-35;
                                         13-3-36
62.23(7)(d)2                             13-3-37
62.23(7)(de)                             13-1-125
62.23(7)(e)                              2-4-2
62.23(7)(e)3                             13-3-36
62.23(7)(e)(7)                           13-1-128
62.23(7)(e)10, 14, and 15                14-1-101
62.23(7)(i)                              13-1-140
62.23(7)(l)                              13-1-26
62.23(7)(l)9                             13-1-26
62.23(7a)                                13-1-140
62.25                                    4-1-3
62.221                                   13-3-41
62.231                                   2-4-2
62.231(6)                                13-3-37
62.351                                   13-3-41
Chapter 66                               2-1-1;
                                         2-3-11
66.021                                   13-5-12
66.021(5)(a)                             13-5-12
66.021(15)                               13-5-12
66.025                                   13-5-12
                                         6-2-1;
66.027                                   6-2-7;
                                         6-4-6
66.0101                                  2-3-10
66.0103                                  1-1-5
66.0105                                  14-1-20
66.0113(1)(a)                            1-2-1
66.0113(3)                               1-2-6
66.0114                                  10-3-9
                                         2-3-11;
66.0114(1)(b)                            10-1-51;
                                         10-3-9
                                         2-3-11;
66.0119                                  7-8-5;
                                         9-1-50;
                                         13-1-125
66.0217                                  13-5-10;
                                         13-5-11
66.0217(2)                               13-5-13
                                         13-5-10;
66.0217(8)(a)                            13-5-11;
                                         13-5-13
66.0217(14)                              13-5-12;
                                         13-5-13
66.0301                                  2-3-11
66.0404                                  13-1-112
66.0404(1)                               13-1-112
66.0404(2)(f)                            13-1-112
66.0404(4)(d)                            13-1-112
66.0407                                  8-1-4
66.0407(1)(b)                            8-1-4
66.0413                                  13-1-95;
                                         15-1-6
66.0425                                  6-2-5;
                                         6-2-6
66.0435                                  7-5-1;
                                         13-1-141
66.0453(2)(d)                            13-1-27
66.0453(3)                               7-5-1
66.0453(3)(c) and (e)                    7-5-1
66.0501                                  2-2-8
66.0501(2)                               2-2-8
66.0505                                  2-2-8
66.0507                                  2-2-8
66.0515                                  3-1-10
66.0517                                  2-3-8
66.0603(1m)                              3-1-9
                                         8-1-6;
66.0627                                  9-2-24;
                                         13-1-95;
                                         13-1-112
66.0701                                  3-2-1;
                                         6-2-13
                                         3-2-1;
66.0703                                  6-2-13;
                                         15-1-10
66.0703(7)(b)                            14-1-51
66.0709                                  14-1-50
66.0713(4)                               14-1-50
66.0809                                  9-1-43;
                                         9-1-52
66.0821(4)(d)                            9-2-14
66.0901                                  3-1-12
66.0907                                  6-2-2
66.0907(2)                               14-1-55
66.0907(3)(c)                            6-2-2
66.0907(3)(f) and (5)                    6-2-7
66.0907(5)                               6-2-7
66.0909                                  14-1-55
66.60(16)                                5-4-9
66.75                                    3-5-2
66.114                                   10-3-9
66.1017                                  13-1-43
Chapter 66, Subchapter III               2-2-6
Chapter 68                               6-4-11;
                                         9-1-50
68.01                                    4-1-1;
                                         4-1-5
68.02                                    4-1-2
68.03                                    4-1-3
68.05                                    4-1-4
68.06                                    4-1-5
68.07                                    4-1-6
68.07—68.16                            7-4-6
68.08                                    4-1-7
68.09                                    4-1-8
68.10                                    4-1-9
68.11                                    4-1-10
68.12                                    4-1-11
68.13                                    4-1-12
68.14                                    4-1-13
69.97(15)                                13-1-140
70.05                                    2-3-10
70.111(19)                               7-5-1
70.27                                    14-1-101
70.27(1)                                 14-1-35
70.46                                    2-4-1
70.47(2m)                                Introduction, “
                                         Open Meeting Law Guide,”
70.47(3)(b)                              2-4-1
70.47(7)(af)                             2-4-1
70.49                                    2-3-10
70.65                                    3-1-1;
                                         13-5-13
70.67                                    3-1-2
70.67(1)                                 3-1-2
70.67(2)                                 3-1-2
73.02                                    2-3-10
73.09                                    2-3-10
Chapter 74                               3-1-1
77.51(11)(a), (b), and (c)               3-5-1
77.52(2)(a)1                             3-5-2
77.61(11)                                7-2-7
85.13                                    10-1-51
86.03                                    6-4-12
86.31                                    14-1-70;
                                         14-1-71
                                         2-4-2;
87.30                                    13-1-1;
                                         13-3-1;
                                         13-3-12
87.30(2)                                 13-3-40
Chapter 88                               14-1-74
Chapter 88.83                            14-1-74
Chapter 91                               2-4-2
93.30                                    13-1-125
93.90                                    13-1-29;
                                         13-1-125
93.90(5)                                 13-1-125
95.21(2)                                 7-1-2
97.01                                    7-2-4
98.26                                    9-1-44
100.30(2)(g)                             7-1-13
101.12                                   15-1-4
101.123                                  11-3-8
101.123(1)(h)                            11-3-8
101.123(2)                               11-3-8
101.13                                   13-1-74
101.14                                   5-2-2
101.14(2)                                5-2-2
101.61(1)                                5-3-4
101.71(6)                                5-3-4
101.935                                  13-1-61
Chapter 110                              10-1-1
110.075                                  10-1-2
110.075(5)                               10-1-2
111.321                                  7-2-9;
                                         7-2-34
111.322                                  7-2-9;
                                         7-2-34
111.335                                  7-2-9;
                                         7-2-34
114.105                                  13-1-140
                                         11-7-1;
Chapter 118                              11-7-2;
                                         11-7-3
118.07                                   11-1-1
118.08                                   11-1-1
118.08(1)                                10-1-5
118.09                                   11-1-1
118.10                                   11-1-1
118.105                                  10-1-33;
                                         11-1-1
118.11                                   11-1-1
118.123                                  11-1-1
118.163                                  11-1-1
                                         4-1-3;
                                         7-2-1;
Chapter 125                              7-2-2;
                                         7-2-5;
                                         7-2-17;
                                         11-5-3
125.04(a)1 and (b)                       7-2-7
125.04(a)1 and 3 and (b)                 7-2-7
125.04(a)1 and 4 and (b)                 7-2-7
125.04(a)2                               7-2-7
125.04(12)                               7-2-11
125.04(4)                                7-2-12
125.04(5)                                7-2-4
125.04(6)                                7-2-7
125.07                                   11-4-2
125.07(1)—(5)                          7-2-40
125.07(2)                                11-1-1
125.07(3)(a)10                           7-2-18;
                                         7-2-30
125.085(3)(a)(1)                         11-1-1
125.09(2)                                7-2-40
125.11                                   11-1-1
125.12                                   7-2-7;
                                         7-10-1
125.12(2)(d)                             7-2-34
125.16                                   7-2-3
125.17                                   7-2-30
125.17(5)                                7-2-33
125.18                                   7-2-30
125.26                                   7-2-6
125.26(1) and (6)                        7-2-4
125.26(6)                                7-2-4;
                                         7-2-16
125.27                                   7-2-3
125.27(2)                                7-2-30
125.28                                   7-2-3
125.32                                   7-2-4;
                                         7-2-30
125.32(3)                                7-2-15
125.32(3)(b)                             7-2-30
125.51                                   7-2-3
125.51(10)                               7-2-6
125.66                                   11-1-1
125.68(3)                                7-2-4
125.68(4)                                11-1-1
125.69(6)                                11-1-1
134.65                                   7-3-1;
                                         11-1-1
134.66                                   11-1-1;
                                         11-5-5
134.90(1)(c)                             3-3-6
139.30(1)                                11-2-10
139.30(4) and (5)                        11-2-10
139.75(12)                               11-2-10
144.01(3)                                7-8-2
Chapter 144.06                           8-1-7
144.435—144.445                        7-8-4
144.60—144.74                          7-8-4
144.80—144.94                          7-8-4
145.01(2)                                5-3-4
Chapter 146.14                           8-1-2
155.01(6)                                11-2-10
161.14                                   7-1-17
                                         1-2-2;
165.87                                   1-2-3;
                                         1-2-4;
                                         10-1-50
167.10                                   11-1-1
167.30                                   10-3-1
169.01                                   7-1-1
173.10                                   11-1-1
173.24                                   11-1-1
Chapter 174                              7-1-20
174.02                                   7-1-6
174.05—174.10                          7-1-1;
                                         7-1-3
174.053                                  7-1-3
175.095                                  11-2-5
175.25                                   11-1-1
Chapter 194                              10-1-1
219.05                                   3-1-9
Chapter 227                              14-1-10
                                         2-4-3;
                                         13-1-140;
                                         14-1-1;
Chapter 236                              14-1-20;
                                         14-1-51;
                                         14-1-53;
                                         14-1-70
236.01                                   14-1-1
236.02(8)                                14-1-20
236.12                                   14-1-33
236.12(2)                                14-1-33
236.13                                   14-1-50
236.13(1)(b)                             14-1-1
236.13(5)                                14-1-101
236.15                                   14-1-41
236.20                                   14-1-41
236.20(3)(b)                             14-1-41
236.21                                   14-1-41
236.21(2)(a)                             14-1-42
236.30                                   14-1-101
236.31                                   14-1-101
236.32                                   14-1-101
                                         14-1-20;
236.34                                   14-1-34;
                                         14-1-42
236.40—236.44                          14-1-35
236.45                                   14-1-1
                                         14-1-10;
236.293                                  14-1-31;
                                         14-1-103
254.61(1)                                11-2-10
254.61(3)                                11-2-10
280.30                                   9-1-51
281.31                                   2-4-2;
                                         13-3-37
281.31(2)(d)                             13-3-41
281.31(2m)                               13-3-22
                                         8-1-7;
281.45                                   9-1-22;
                                         9-2-24
295.14                                   7-8-1
                                         10-1-1;
Chapters 340—349                       10-1-33;
                                         10-1-50
340.01                                   10-2-6
340.01(3)(a)                             10-1-6
340.01(35)                               10-5-8
Chapter 341                              10-4-3
341.265                                  10-5-8
341.266                                  10-5-8
Chapter 442                              3-3-9
342.40                                   10-5-8
343.28                                   10-1-51
345.11                                   10-1-51;
                                         10-3-9
345.20(2)(b)                             10-1-51
345.26                                   10-1-51;
                                         10-3-9
345.26(1)(a)                             10-1-51
345.26(3)(b)                             10-1-51
345.27                                   10-1-51
345.27(2)                                10-1-51
345.28                                   10-1-51
345.28(4)                                10-1-51
345.28(4)(d)                             10-1-51
Chapter 346                              10-1-20;
                                         10-2-3
346.03                                   10-1-6
346.03(3)                                10-1-6
346.04                                   10-3-2
346.06                                   10-3-2
346.11                                   10-3-2
346.14(1)                                10-3-2
346.18                                   10-3-2
346.18(6)                                10-1-10
346.19                                   10-3-2
346.20                                   10-3-2
346.21                                   10-3-2
346.26                                   10-3-2
346.27                                   10-3-2
346.33                                   10-3-2
346.35                                   10-3-2
346.37                                   10-3-2
346.39                                   10-3-2
346.40                                   10-3-2
346.41                                   10-1-3
346.44                                   10-3-2
346.46                                   10-1-10;
                                         10-3-2
346.47                                   10-3-2
346.48                                   10-3-2
346.48(2)(b)2                            10-1-5
346.485(5)(b)                            10-1-4
346.50(1)(b)                             10-3-2
346.503                                  13-1-74
346.51                                   10-3-2
346.52                                   10-3-2
346.53                                   10-3-2
346.54                                   10-3-2
346.55                                   10-3-2
346.655                                  10-1-50
346.56                                   13-1-74
346.57                                   10-1-11
346.58                                   10-1-11
346.59                                   10-1-11
346.71—346.73                          10-1-51
346.77                                   10-2-6;
                                         10-2-7
346.82(1)                                10-2-6;
                                         10-2-7
346.87                                   10-3-2
346.88                                   10-3-2
346.89                                   10-3-2
346.90                                   10-3-2
346.91                                   10-3-2
346.92(1)                                10-3-2
346.94(14)                               10-1-6
346.95(3)                                10-1-6
Chapter 347                              10-1-2;
                                         10-2-3
347.25(1), (1m)(a) and (b), and (4)      10-1-6
347.81                                   10-2-2
349.09                                   10-1-3
                                         10-1-20;
349.13                                   10-1-21;
                                         10-1-27
349.21(2)                                10-1-5
349.215                                  10-1-43
350.01                                   10-3-1
350.02                                   10-3-1;
                                         10-3-5
350.03                                   10-3-1
350.04                                   10-3-1;
                                         10-3-5
350.045                                  10-3-1;
                                         10-3-5
350.047                                  10-3-1
350.05                                   10-3-1
350.055                                  10-3-1
350.07                                   10-3-1
350.08                                   10-3-1
350.09                                   10-3-1
350.10                                   10-3-1
350.12                                   10-3-1
350.125                                  10-3-1
350.13                                   10-3-1
350.15                                   10-3-1
350.17                                   10-3-1
350.18                                   10-3-1
350.19                                   10-3-1
350.99                                   10-3-1
369.94(1), (6), (6m), and (9)            10-3-2
Chapter 409                              14-1-31
423.203                                  7-4-7
423.203(1)(a), (b), and (c), (2) and (3) 7-4-7
440.41                                   7-4-3
647.01(6)                                11-2-10
Chapter 703                              14-1-10;
                                         14-1-22
703.27(1)                                14-1-20
Chapter 755                              2-3-11
755.01(4)                                2-3-11
755.03                                   2-3-11
755.03(2)                                2-3-11
755.045                                  2-3-11
755.045(2)                               2-3-11
755.05                                   2-3-11
757.02(1)                                2-3-11
Chapter 800                              2-3-11;
                                         10-1-51
800.05                                   2-3-11
800.06(1)                                2-3-11
800.06(2)                                2-3-11
800.10                                   1-2-2;
                                         1-2-4
800.12                                   2-3-11
Chapter 801                              3-5-3
814.63(1) and (2)                        10-1-50
814.65                                   2-3-11
814.65(1)                                10-1-50
Chapter 823                              11-6-6
840.11                                   13-1-21
887.01—887.03                          7-2-6
905.03                                   3-3-6
905.08                                   3-3-6
Chapter 938                              2-3-11
938.125                                  11-1-1
938.17                                   11-1-1
938.17(2)(cm)                            2-3-11
938.342                                  11-1-1
938.343                                  11-1-1
938.344                                  11-1-1
938.345                                  11-1-1
938.983                                  11-1-1
939.05(2)(b)                             11-1-1
939.22                                   11-1-1
940.19(1)                                11-1-1
940.291                                  11-1-1
940.42                                   11-1-1
940.44                                   11-1-1
941.01                                   10-1-1;
                                         11-1-1
Chapter 941.03                           10-1-1
941.10                                   11-1-1
941.12(2), (3)                           11-1-1
941.13                                   11-1-1
941.20(1)                                11-1-1
941.23                                   11-1-1
941.35                                   11-1-1
941.36                                   11-1-1
941.37(1), (2)                           11-1-1
941.235                                  11-1-1
942.01                                   11-1-1
942.03                                   11-1-1
942.05                                   11-1-1
942.20(1), (2)                           11-1-1
943.01(1)                                11-1-1
943.11                                   10-1-1;
                                         11-1-1
943.125                                  11-1-1
943.13                                   11-1-1
943.14                                   11-1-1;
                                         11-3-7
943.145                                  11-1-1
943.15                                   11-1-1
943.20                                   9-1-44
943.20(3)(a)                             11-1-1
943.21(3)                                11-1-1
943.22                                   11-1-1
943.23                                   10-1-1
943.23(1)(4)(5)                          11-1-1
943.24                                   11-1-1
943.34(1)(a)                             11-1-1
943.37                                   11-1-1
943.38(3)                                11-1-1
943.41                                   11-1-1
943.46                                   11-1-1
943.50                                   11-3-6
943.50(1)-(3), (4)(a)                    11-1-1
943.55                                   11-1-1
943.61                                   11-3-3
943.70                                   11-1-1
944.15                                   11-1-1
944.17                                   11-1-1
944.20                                   11-1-1
944.21                                   11-1-1
944.23                                   11-1-1
944.30                                   11-1-1
944.31                                   11-1-1
944.33                                   11-1-1
944.36                                   11-1-1
945.01                                   11-1-1
945.02                                   11-1-1
945.04                                   11-1-1
946.10                                   2-5-3
946.11                                   2-5-3
946.12                                   2-5-3
946.13                                   2-5-3;
                                         2-5-7
946.40                                   11-1-1
946.41                                   11-1-1
946.42(2)                                11-1-1
946.46                                   11-1-1
946.69                                   11-1-1
946.70                                   11-1-1
946.72(2)                                11-1-1
947.01                                   11-1-1
947.012                                  11-1-1
947.013                                  11-1-1
Chapter 947.045                          10-1-1
947.06                                   11-1-1
Chapter 948                              7-1-3
948.01                                   11-1-1
948.09                                   11-1-1
948.10                                   11-1-1
948.11                                   7-1-13
948.11(1)(b), (2)(b)                     11-1-1
948.13                                   7-1-14
948.21                                   11-1-1
948.40                                   11-1-1
948.50                                   11-1-1
948.51(1), (2), (3)(a)                   11-1-1
948.60                                   11-1-1
948.61(1), (2)                           11-1-1
948.63                                   11-1-1
951.01                                   11-1-1
951.015                                  11-1-1
951.02                                   11-1-1
951.03                                   11-1-1
951.04                                   11-1-1
951.05                                   11-1-1
951.06                                   11-1-1
951.07                                   11-1-1
951.08                                   11-1-1
951.09                                   11-1-1
951.10                                   11-1-1
951.11                                   11-1-1
951.13                                   11-1-1
951.14                                   11-1-1
951.15                                   11-1-1
                                         11-5-4;
Chapter 961                              11-5-2;
                                         12-1-1
961.003                                  11-1-1
961.005                                  11-1-1
961.41(3g)(b), (d), (e)                  11-1-1
961.571                                  11-1-1
961.572                                  11-1-1
961.573                                  11-1-1
961.574                                  11-1-1
961.575                                  11-1-1
961.576                                  11-1-1
961.577                                  11-1-1
967.02(5)                                7-1-1
968.20                                   3-4-2
                                         3-1-12;
Chapter 985                              13-1-124;
                                         13-3-36;
                                         13-3-41
985.02(2)(a)                             2-2-10
985.08                                   7-2-6
                                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code                        2023 Code
1-1-1                             1-1-1
1-1-2                             1-1-2
1-1-3                             1-1-3
1-1-4                             1-1-4
1-1-5                             1-1-5
1-1-6                             1-1-6
1-1-7                             1-1-7
1-2-1                             1-2-1
1-2-2                             1-2-2
1-2-3                             1-2-3
1-2-4                             1-2-4
1-2-5                             1-2-5
1-2-6                             1-2-6
1-2-7                             1-2-7
2-1-1                             2-1-1
2-1-2                             2-1-2
2-1-3                             2-1-3
2-1-4                             2-1-4
2-2-1                             2-2-1
2-2-2                             2-2-2
2-2-3                             2-2-3
2-2-4                             2-2-4
2-2-5                             2-2-5
2-2-6                             2-2-6
2-2-7                             2-2-7
2-2-8                             2-2-8
2-2-9                             2-2-9
2-2-10                            2-2-10
2-2-11                            2-2-11
2-2-12                            2-2-12
2-2-13                            2-2-13
2-2-14                            2-2-14
2-2-15                            2-2-15
2-2-16                            2-2-16
2-2-17                            2-2-17
2-2-18                            2-2-18
2-2-19                            2-2-19
2-2-20                            2-2-20
2-2-21                            2-2-21
2-3-1                             2-3-1
2-3-2                             2-3-2
2-3-6                             2-3-6
2-3-7                             2-3-7
2-3-8                             2-3-8
2-3-9                             2-3-9
2-3-10                            2-3-10
2-3-11                            2-3-11
2-3-12                            2-3-12
2-3-13                            2-3-13
2-3-14                            2-3-14
2-3-15                            2-3-15
2-3-16                            2-3-16
2-3-17                            2-3-17
2-3-18                            2-3-18
2-4-2                             2-4-2
2-4-3                             2-4-3
2-4-4                             2-4-4
2-4-5                             2-4-5
2-5-1                             2-5-1
2-5-2                             2-5-2
2-5-3                             2-5-3
2-5-4                             2-5-4
2-5-5                             2-5-5
2-5-6                             2-5-6
2-5-7                             2-5-7
2-5-8                             2-5-8
2-5-9                             2-5-9
2-5-10                            2-5-10
2-5-11                            2-5-11
2-5-12                            2-5-12
3-1-1                             3-1-1
3-1-2                             3-1-2
3-1-3                             3-1-3
3-1-4                             3-1-4
3-1-5                             3-1-5
3-1-6                             3-1-6
3-1-7                             3-1-7
3-1-8                             3-1-8
3-1-9                             3-1-9
3-1-10                            3-1-10
3-1-11                            3-1-11
3-1-12                            3-1-12
3-1-13                            3-1-13
3-1-14                            3-1-14
3-1-15                            3-1-15
3-2-1                             3-2-1
3-4-1                             3-4-1
3-5-1                             3-5-1
3-5-2                             3-5-2
3-5-3                             3-5-3
3-5-4                             3-5-4
3-5-5                             3-5-5
3-5-6                             3-5-6
3-5-7                             3-5-7
4-1-1                             4-1-1
4-1-2                             4-1-2
4-1-3                             4-1-3
4-1-4                             4-1-4
4-1-5                             4-1-5
4-1-6                             4-1-6
4-1-7                             4-1-7
4-1-8                             4-1-8
4-1-9                             4-1-9
4-1-10                            4-1-10
4-1-11                            4-1-11
4-1-12                            4-1-12
4-1-13                            4-1-13
5-1-1                             5-1-1
5-1-2                             5-1-2
5-1-3                             5-1-3
5-1-4                             5-1-4
5-1-5                             5-1-5
5-1-6                             5-1-6
5-1-7                             5-1-7
5-1-8                             5-1-8
5-1-9                             5-1-9
5-2-1                             5-2-1
5-2-2                             5-2-2
5-2-3                             5-2-3
5-2-4                             5-2-4
5-2-5                             5-2-5
5-2-6                             5-2-6
5-2-7                             5-2-7
5-2-8                             5-2-8
5-3-1                             5-3-1
5-3-2                             5-3-2
5-3-3                             5-3-3
5-3-4                             5-3-4
5-4-1                             5-4-1
5-4-2                             5-4-2
5-4-3                             5-4-3
5-4-4                             5-4-4
5-4-5                             5-4-5
5-4-6                             5-4-6
5-4-7                             5-4-7
5-4-8                             5-4-8
5-4-9                             5-4-9
5-4-10                            5-4-10
5-4-11                            5-4-11
5-4-12                            5-4-12
6-1-1                             6-1-1
6-1-2                             6-1-2
6-1-3                             6-1-3
6-2-1                             6-2-1
6-2-2                             6-2-2
6-2-3                             6-2-3
6-2-4                             6-2-4
6-2-5                             6-2-5
6-2-6                             6-2-6
6-2-7                             6-2-7
6-2-8                             6-2-8
6-2-9                             6-2-9
6-2-10                            6-2-10
6-2-11                            6-2-11
6-2-12                            6-2-12
6-2-13                            6-2-13
6-2-14                            6-2-14
6-3-1                             6-3-1
6-3-2                             6-3-2
6-4-1                             6-4-1
6-4-2                             6-4-2
6-4-3                             6-4-3
6-4-4                             6-4-4
6-4-5                             6-4-5
6-4-6                             6-4-6
6-4-7                             6-4-7
6-4-8                             6-4-8
6-4-9                             6-4-9
6-4-10                            6-4-10
6-4-11                            6-4-11
6-4-12                            6-4-12
7-1-1                             7-1-1
7-1-2                             7-1-2
7-1-3                             7-1-3
7-1-4                             7-1-4
7-1-5                             7-1-5
7-1-6                             7-1-6
7-1-7                             7-1-7
7-1-8                             7-1-8
7-1-9                             7-1-9
7-1-10                            7-1-10
7-1-11                            7-1-11
7-1-13                            7-1-13
7-1-14                            7-1-14
7-1-15                            7-1-15
7-1-16                            7-1-16
7-1-17                            7-1-17
7-1-18                            7-1-18
7-1-19                            7-1-19
7-1-20                            7-1-20
7-2-1                             7-2-1
7-2-2                             7-2-2
7-2-3                             7-2-3
7-2-4                             7-2-4
7-2-5                             7-2-5
7-2-6                             7-2-6
7-2-7                             7-2-7
7-2-8                             7-2-8
7-2-9                             7-2-9
7-2-10                            7-2-10
7-2-11                            7-2-11
7-2-12                            7-2-12
7-2-13                            7-2-13
7-2-14                            7-2-14
7-2-15                            7-2-15
7-2-16                            7-2-16
7-2-17                            7-2-17
7-2-18                            7-2-18
7-2-30                            7-2-30
7-2-31                            7-2-31
7-2-32                            7-2-32
7-2-33                            7-2-33
7-2-34                            7-2-34
7-2-35                            7-2-35
7-2-36                            7-2-36
7-2-37                            7-2-37
7-2-40                            7-2-40
7-3-1                             7-3-1
7-4-1                             7-4-1
7-4-2                             7-4-2
7-4-3                             7-4-3
7-4-4                             7-4-4
7-4-5                             7-4-5
7-4-6                             7-4-6
7-4-7                             7-4-7
7-4-8                             7-4-8
7-5-1                             7-5-1
7-6-1                             7-6-1
7-7-1                             7-7-1
7-8-1                             7-8-1
7-8-2                             7-8-2
7-8-3                             7-8-3
7-8-4                             7-8-4
7-8-5                             7-8-5
7-8-6                             7-8-6
7-8-7                             7-8-7
7-9-1                             7-9-1
7-9-2                             7-9-2
7-10-1                            7-10-1
7-11-1                            7-11-1
7-11-2                            7-11-2
7-11-3                            7-11-3
7-11-4                            7-11-4
7-11-5                            7-11-5
7-11-6                            7-11-6
7-11-7                            7-11-7
7-11-8                            7-11-8
7-11-9                            7-11-9
7-11-10                           7-11-10
7-11-11                           7-11-11
7-11-12                           7-11-12
7-11-13                           7-11-13
7-11-14                           7-11-14
7-11-15                           7-11-15
7-11-16                           7-11-16
7-11-17                           7-11-17
7-11-18                           7-11-18
7-11-19                           7-11-19
7-11-20                           7-11-20
7-11-21                           7-11-21
8-1-1                             8-1-1
8-1-2                             8-1-2
8-1-3                             8-1-3
8-1-4                             8-1-4
8-1-5                             8-1-5
8-1-6                             8-1-6
8-1-7                             8-1-7
8-2-1                             8-2-1
8-2-2                             8-2-2
8-3-1                             8-3-1
8-3-2                             8-3-2
8-3-3                             8-3-3
8-3-4                             8-3-4
8-3-5                             8-3-5
8-3-6                             8-3-6
8-3-7                             8-3-7
8-3-8                             8-3-8
8-3-9                             8-3-9
8-3-10                            8-3-10
8-3-11                            8-3-11
9-1-1                             9-1-1
9-1-2                             9-1-2
9-1-3                             9-1-3
9-1-4                             9-1-4
9-1-5                             9-1-5
9-1-6                             9-1-6
9-1-7                             9-1-7
9-1-8                             9-1-8
9-1-9                             9-1-9
9-1-10                            9-1-10
9-1-11                            9-1-11
9-1-12                            9-1-12
9-1-13                            9-1-13
9-1-14                            9-1-14
9-1-15                            9-1-15
9-1-16                            9-1-16
9-1-20                            9-1-20
9-1-21                            9-1-21
9-1-22                            9-1-22
9-1-23                            9-1-23
9-1-24                            9-1-24
9-1-25                            9-1-25
9-1-26                            9-1-26
9-1-27                            9-1-27
9-1-28                            9-1-28
9-1-29                            9-1-29
9-1-30                            9-1-30
9-1-31                            9-1-31
9-1-32                            9-1-32
9-1-33                            9-1-33
9-1-34                            9-1-34
9-1-35                            9-1-35
9-1-36                            9-1-36
9-1-37                            9-1-37
9-1-38                            9-1-38
9-1-39                            9-1-39
9-1-40                            9-1-40
9-1-41                            9-1-41
9-1-42                            9-1-42
9-1-43                            9-1-43
9-1-44                            9-1-44
9-1-45                            9-1-45
9-1-46                            9-1-46
9-1-47                            9-1-47
9-1-48                            9-1-48
9-1-49                            9-1-49
9-1-52                            9-1-52
9-3-1                             9-3-1
9-3-2                             9-3-2
9-3-3                             9-3-3
9-3-4                             9-3-4
9-3-5                             9-3-5
9-3-6                             9-3-6
9-3-7                             9-3-7
9-3-8                             9-3-8
9-3-9                             9-3-9
9-3-10                            9-3-10
9-3-11                            9-3-11
9-3-12                            9-3-12
9-3-13                            9-3-13
9-3-14                            9-3-14
9-3-15                            9-3-15
9-3-16                            9-3-16
9-3-17                            9-3-17
9-3-18                            9-3-18
9-3-19                            9-3-19
9-3-20                            9-3-20
9-3-21                            9-3-21
9-3-22                            9-3-22
9-3-23                            9-3-23
9-3-24                            9-3-24
9-3-25                            9-3-25
9-3-26                            9-3-26
9-3-27                            9-3-27
9-3-28                            9-3-28
9-3-29                            9-3-29
9-3-30                            9-3-30
9-3-31                            9-3-31
9-3-32                            9-3-32
10-1-1                            10-1-1
10-1-2                            10-1-2
10-1-3                            10-1-3
10-1-4                            10-1-4
10-1-5                            10-1-5
10-1-6                            10-1-6
10-1-10                           10-1-10
10-1-11                           10-1-11
10-1-20                           10-1-20
10-1-21                           10-1-21
10-1-22                           10-1-22
10-1-23                           10-1-23
10-1-24                           10-1-24
10-1-25                           10-1-25
10-1-26                           10-1-26
10-1-27                           10-1-27
10-1-28                           10-1-28
10-1-29                           10-1-29
10-1-30                           10-1-30
10-1-31                           10-1-31
10-1-32                           10-1-32
10-1-33                           10-1-33
10-1-40                           10-1-40
10-1-41                           10-1-41
10-1-42                           10-1-42
10-1-43                           10-1-43
10-1-44                           10-1-44
10-1-50                           10-1-50
10-1-51                           10-1-51
10-2-1                            10-2-1
10-2-2                            10-2-2
10-2-3                            10-2-3
10-2-4                            10-2-4
10-2-5                            10-2-5
10-2-6                            10-2-6
10-2-7                            10-2-7
10-3-1                            10-3-1
10-3-2                            10-3-2
10-3-3                            10-3-3
10-3-4                            10-3-4
10-3-5                            10-3-5
10-3-6                            10-3-6
10-3-7                            10-3-7
10-3-8                            10-3-8
10-3-9                            10-3-9
10-4-1                            10-4-1
10-4-2                            10-4-2
10-4-3                            10-4-3
10-5-1                            10-5-1
10-5-2                            10-5-2
10-5-3                            10-5-3
10-5-4                            10-5-4
10-5-5                            10-5-5
10-5-6                            10-5-6
10-5-7                            10-5-7
10-5-8                            10-5-8
11-1-1                            11-1-1
11-1-2                            11-1-2
11-2-1                            11-2-1
11-2-2                            11-2-2
11-2-3                            11-2-3
11-2-4                            11-2-4
11-2-5                            11-2-5
11-2-6                            11-2-6
11-2-7                            11-2-7
11-2-8                            11-2-8
11-2-9                            11-2-9
11-3-1                            11-3-1
11-3-2                            11-3-2
11-3-3                            11-3-3
11-3-4                            11-3-4
11-3-5                            11-3-5
11-3-6                            11-3-6
11-3-8                            11-3-8
11-4-1                            11-4-1
11-4-2                            11-4-2
11-5-1                            11-5-1
11-5-2                            11-5-2
11-5-3                            11-5-3
11-5-4                            11-5-4
11-5-6                            11-5-5
11-5-7                            11-5-6
11-6-1                            11-6-1
11-6-2                            11-6-2
11-6-3                            11-6-3
11-6-4                            11-6-4
11-6-5                            11-6-5
11-6-6                            11-6-6
11-6-7                            11-6-7
11-6-8                            11-6-8
11-7-1                            11-7-1
11-7-2                            11-7-2
11-7-3                            11-7-3
11-7-4                            11-7-4
12-1-1                            12-1-1
12-1-2                            12-1-2
12-1-3                            12-1-3
12-1-4                            12-1-4
12-1-5                            12-1-5
13-3-1                            13-3-1
13-3-2                            13-3-2
13-3-3                            13-3-3
13-3-10                           13-3-10
13-3-11                           13-3-11
13-3-12                           13-3-12
13-3-13                           13-3-13
13-3-14                           13-3-14
13-3-15                           13-3-15
13-3-16                           13-3-16
13-3-20                           13-3-20
13-3-21                           13-3-21
13-3-22                           13-3-22
13-3-23                           13-3-23
13-3-24                           13-3-24
13-3-25                           13-3-25
13-3-30                           13-3-30
13-3-31                           13-3-31
13-3-32                           13-3-32
13-3-33                           13-3-33
13-3-34                           13-3-34
13-3-35                           13-3-35
13-3-36                           13-3-36
13-3-37                           13-3-37
13-3-40                           13-3-40
13-3-41                           13-3-41
13-4-1                            13-4-1
13-4-2                            13-4-2
13-4-3                            13-4-3
13-4-4                            13-4-4
13-4-5                            13-4-5
13-4-6                            13-4-6
13-4-7                            13-4-7
13-4-8                            13-4-8
13-4-9                            13-4-9
13-4-10                           13-4-10
13-4-11                           13-4-11
13-4-12                           13-4-12
13-4-13                           13-4-13
13-4-14                           13-4-14
13-4-15                           13-4-15
13-4-16                           13-4-16
13-4-17                           13-4-17
13-5-1                            13-5-1
13-5-2                            13-5-2
13-5-3                            13-5-3
13-5-4                            13-5-4
13-5-5                            13-5-5
13-5-6                            13-5-6
13-5-7                            13-5-7
14-1-1                            14-1-1
14-1-2                            14-1-2
14-1-3                            14-1-3
14-1-4                            14-1-4
14-1-5                            14-1-5
14-1-6                            14-1-6
14-1-10                           14-1-10
14-1-20                           14-1-20
14-1-21                           14-1-21
14-1-22                           14-1-22
14-1-30                           14-1-30
14-1-31                           14-1-31
14-1-32                           14-1-32
14-1-33                           14-1-33
14-1-34                           14-1-34
14-1-35                           14-1-35
14-1-36                           14-1-36
14-1-40                           14-1-40
14-1-41                           14-1-41
14-1-42                           14-1-42
14-1-50                           14-1-50
14-1-51                           14-1-51
14-1-52                           14-1-52
14-1-53                           14-1-53
14-1-54                           14-1-54
14-1-55                           14-1-55
14-1-56                           14-1-56
14-1-57                           14-1-57
14-1-58                           14-1-58
14-1-59                           14-1-59
14-1-60                           14-1-60
14-1-61                           14-1-61
14-1-62                           14-1-62
14-1-63                           14-1-63
14-1-64                           14-1-64
14-1-65                           14-1-65
14-1-66                           14-1-66
14-1-67                           14-1-67
14-1-70                           14-1-70
14-1-71                           14-1-71
14-1-72                           14-1-72
14-1-73                           14-1-73
14-1-74                           14-1-74
14-1-75                           14-1-75
14-1-76                           14-1-76
14-1-77                           14-1-77
14-1-80                           14-1-80
14-1-81                           14-1-81
14-1-82                           14-1-82
14-1-83                           14-1-83
14-1-90                           14-1-90
14-1-100                          14-1-100
14-1-101                          14-1-101
14-1-102                          14-1-102
14-1-103                          14-1-103
15-1-1                            15-1-1
15-1-2                            15-1-2
15-1-3                            15-1-3
15-1-5                            15-1-5
15-1-6                            15-1-6
15-1-7                            15-1-7
15-1-8                            15-1-8
15-1-9                            15-1-9
15-1-10                           15-1-10
15-1-11                           15-1-11
15-1-12                           15-1-12
15-1-13                           15-1-13
15-1-14                           15-1-14
15-1-15                           15-1-15
15-1-16                           15-1-16
15-2-1                            15-2-1
15-3-1                            15-3-1
15-3-2                            15-3-2
15-3-3                            15-3-3
15-3-4                            15-3-4
15-3-5                            15-3-5
15-4-1                            15-4-1
15-5-1                            15-5-1
15-5-2                            15-5-2
15-5-3                            15-5-3
15-5-4                            15-5-4
15-5-5                            15-5-5
15-5-6                            15-5-6
15-5-7                            15-5-7
15-5-8                            15-5-8
15-5-9                            15-5-9
15-5-10                           15-5-10
15-5-11                           15-5-11
15-5-12                           15-5-12
15-5-13                           15-5-13
15-5-14                           15-5-14
Title 1, Chapter 1, Appendix A    Title 1, Chapter 1, Appendix A
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment A Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment A
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment B Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment B
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment C Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment C
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment D Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment D
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment E Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment E
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment F Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment F
Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment G Title 13, Chapter 5, Attachment G
Title 14, Chapter 1, Appendix A   Title 14, Chapter 1, Appendix A
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2001-4   2-19-2001   15-1-2
2001-5   3-19-2001   15-1-14
2001-10  5-21-2001   15-1-2
2004-12  9-20-2004   3-1-16
06-03    4-17-2006   2-1-4
07-01    2-19-2007   2-1-4
07-05    6-18-2007   2-4-6
2023-02  6-19-2023   9-2-21
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         3-4-2
-        - -         9-1-16
-        12-17-1992  15-3-1—
                     15-3-3
-        12-17-2001  2-2-8
-        9-16-2002   13-4-16
-        11-18-2002  13-5-8
-        2-17-2003   11-2-5
-        4-21-2003   13-4-18
-        9-15-2003   13-4-17
-        11-3-2003   13-5-9
-        3-15-2004   13-4-19
-        4-26-2004   2-3-4
-        4-26-2004   2-3-3
-        4-26-2004   2-3-5
-        9-20-2004   13-4-20
05-01    6-20-2005   7-1-12
05-03    10-17-2005  15-1-4
06-01    4-17-2006   6-5-1—
                     6-5-20
06-03    8-21-2006   7-12-1—
                     7-12-17
07-01    7-16-2007   2-3-11
11-2-10  7-19-2010   11-2-10
11-2-11  10-25-2010  11-2-11
-        12-20-2010  2-2-8
-        9-19-2011   13-5-10
-        10-17-2011  11-3-9
-        3-19-2012   13-5-11
-        1-21-2013   9-2-1—
                     9-2-26
9-1-50   4-15-2013   9-1-50
9-1-51   4-15-2013   9-1-51
9-1-505  5-19-2014   9-1-50.5
3-3-1s   4-18-2016   3-3-1—
                     3-3-10
-        - -2017     11-3-7
-        5-15-2017   2-4-1
-        8-21-2017   13-5-12
                     13-1-1—
                     13-1-9;
                     13-1-11—
                     13-1-15;
                     13-1-20—
                     13-1-35;
                     13-1-40—
                     13-1-43;
                     13-1-51—
                     13-1-54;
-        1-18-2021   13-1-60—
                     13-1-64;
                     13-1-70—
                     13-1-84;
                     13-1-90—
                     13-1-107;
                     13-1-110—
                     13-1-112;
                     13-1-120—
                     13-1-130;
                     13-1-140—
                     13-1-143
2023-01  7-17-2023   13-5-13
                    
 
